start question
What can I do to make sure I do n't get sick eating fish in Japan ( as a 11-year vegan ) ?
You could acclimatize yourself to raw fish now . I am not a big fan of fish and I do not find it hard to avoid fish products when I 'm in Japan ( although I suppose I could be consuming them unwittingly ) . In most large , commercial places the Japanese are quite accepting of foreigners ' strange requirements , although in the smaller restaurants and bars where English is not spoken you will find it difficult . You could try this website for more advice : <URL> and I am sure Google can furnish you with many others .
You need to distinguish between the physical plug shape and the voltage requirements of the device that you want to plug in . If you have an adapter that is made for the USA , then yes , in most cases you will be able to plug in that adapter in terms of physical shape into sockets in Japan . However , you will have to check with each device that you want to use if they support the voltage that you get in Japan out of the power socket . If the label on the device says for example 100-240v ( as it says on most laptop power supplies ) , it WILL work in Japan . If it says 110 ... or only 240v , then there is high chance that it will NOT work in Japan . The good thing when going from Europe ( 240v ) to Japan ( 100v ) is that you most likely will not ruin your equipment if you plug it in and it can not work with 100v . The other way round would fry your device in most cases . If you plug it in , it will simply work - or not . If not , you can still try to get an alternative device in Japan for the time you are there . As a very basic rule of thumb : items that have a high ampere requirement ( hair driers , toasters etc ) will not work . Items that are made to be portable or for travel work in most cases . Check the sticker on the power supply for the " input power " requirements .
The Minimum Connection Time between flights landing in Terminal 2 ( Lufthansa ) and flights departing from Terminal 1 ( Vueling ) is 45 minutes . Thus technically this is a valid connection . However valid connection does not mean that you will make your flight - it just means that the airlines will let you book such a connection when booked on the same ticket . If you are planning to book these two flights on the same ticket , then it 's potentially worth the risk . If you miss the outbound flight then it will be up to the airlines ( most likely Lufthansa ) to get you to your destination , either by moving you to a later Vueling flight , or more likely by putting you on one of their own flights to your destination . However , if you are considering booking these flights on separate tickets then your chances of something going wrong are very high . One of the reasons that MUC has such a low Minimum Connection Time is that they will make arrangements for getting people directly from inbound gate to outbound gate - especially in cases of delayed inbound flights ( eg , using vehicles that drive across the airport itself ) . If you are on multiple tickets then they will not know that you are connecting , and thus will not make any such arrangements for you . On separate tickets it is still possible that you will make your connecting flight , but personally I would never consider such a short connection . Your odds of missing the flight are too high , and if you do miss it you 'll likely have to purchase a new ticket to get yourself to your destination .
It 's a pub staffed by Filipina hostesses . All offer drinks and conversation , most do karaoke ( Filipinos love their karaoke ! ) , some have dancing and shows . The term itself does n't connotate sexual services , although the virtue of some ladies may well be negotiable after-hours . The phenomenon started when the bursting of Japan 's economic bubble led to a steep fall in Japanese visitors to the Philippines , leading many of the people in the industry that had developed there to try their luck in Japan instead . The Philippine pub boom reached its peak in 2004 , when there were over 80,000 Filipino women in Japan on " entertainer " visas . Shortly thereafter , Japan landed on a human trafficking watchlist and started cracking down heavily on these visas , so much that by 2007 they became effectively impossible to obtain . Some pubs scraped by through finding staff who were either married to Japanese ( for real or otherwise ) , had legal working status via some other means , abusing tourist visas or simply overstaying illegally , but obviously this put a big crimp on the industry and there are n't that many left . ( Most of the above freely translated from <URL> on the Japanese Wikipedia . ) And yes , foreigners are generally welcome , probably more so than at your average Japanese bar since most Filipinas speak decent English . But I suspect I 'm not entirely alone in not really understanding the attraction of paying fairly sizable amounts of money to drink with people who are employed to pretend to like me ...
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
Hotel pricing in Japan is generally highly seasonal , and many hotels go so far as to publish a " room rate calendar " ( 客室料金カレンダー ) that shows exactly how prices vary through the year . Disney has a <URL> , but I 'll use this rather more typical image from the <URL> in Kyushu to illustrate : To parse that , 月 means month ( 6月 = June , 7月 = July , etc ) , and prices are ranked by color so that yellow ( priciest ) > green > light pink > orange > dark blue > dark pink > light blue > cyan ( cheapest ) ; and no , that order does n't make a whole lot of sense . ( Adding in letter codes , eg . <URL> , is pretty common too . ) A few trends are clear : August is the most expensive month , particularly around Obon ( the yellow days ) , with late July not far behind . This is summer holiday season , when families are traveling . The week around New Year 's Day ( late Dec/early Jan ) and Golden Week ( late April/early May ) are also very pricy . Saturdays ( 土 ) always cost more , often Fridays as well ( although not for this particular chain ) . Winter weekdays are cheapest . This is , I 'd posit , the " standard " pricing pattern for hotels and ryokan in tourist-heavy destinations . Business hotels often reverse this to some extent , with cheaper weekend deals . There can be significant deviations from the norm though : Western-style dynamic pricing is becoming more and more common , especially for identikit city center business hotels that can really only compete on price . Tourist hotels tend to go more for " packages " including dinner and drinks and hot spring passes and whatnot . For both , <URL> is the only English-language website I know of where you can reliably find these deals , its main ( Japanese-only ) competitor being <URL> . Places famous for cherry blossoms ( eg . Kyoto and surroundings ) get an extra high season in late March or so . Ski resorts obviously have their high season in winter ( but for these , too , New Year is super-peak ) . The very cheapest lodgings will have more or less flat pricing year-round , although love hotels etc will usually jack up Fri/Sat prices , and the cheapest rooms tend to sell out first at times of high demand .
When I 've had to wear my boots due to not having space left in my luggage I generally loosen the laces ( and tuck them inside the shoe to stop tripping over ) whilst in the queue meaning when I actually get to the front it 's just a matter of slipping them off . Then at the end I put them back on and do the same with the laces to walk to a chair - there are usually plenty nearby - to put them back on . If there 's no queue you can take your time about it without feeling guilty , although that 's a rare occurrence .
LAZ have an online reservation system <URL> , however it seems to be unavailable for that particular location . However a different site called <URL> lists their price list : Parkopedia shows numerous alternative parking spots in that area , so you should n't have an issue finding a spot :
1 to 3 months is not too long term to get travel insurance . Many insurance companies offer travel insurance and there are many options depending on what you want covered , how much you want to cover it for , and the duration of the coverage . Your travel agent might only suggest one company though which may not be the cheapest or best . They seem to have some kind of exclusive arrangements in my experience . One factor is the cost of healthcare in the destination countries . For travel to the United States the general recommendation is to get " unlimited " health coverage , which is of course the most expensive . For property theft and damage , Visa Card provides a kind of automatic travel insurance on items purchased with it . I do not know if Mastercard has the same policy . I did n't want to do too much searching so I stopped at the first one that seemed to answer your question . I have never used them so do not take this as a reccommendation . <URL> advertises " long term travel insurance " and says " Indefinitely extend your policy while you are away " . There are some restrictions which should n't affect you such as being younger than 66 years and being from one of the countries in their list ( I noticed Yemen was n't included ) . Also the price depends on whether or not you will enter these three countries : USA , Canda , and Japan
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
Seafood allergies are a big issue in Japan , vegetarianism is often hard to deal with , a strong allergy to shrimp will cause problems unless you know what not to eat and are prepared to tell the waiter your needs in Japanese . If you rely on English skills only and do not avoid special types of food , you will have a problem , guaranteed . My first recommendation would be to for sure avoid deep fried food such as Tempura , Kushikatsu amd Tonkatsu . Those are all fried in the same oil as other customers food and therefore for sure mixed with shrimp . Secondly , as long as you go for other food types you might be fine most of the time provided that you prepare a paper for the waiter in Japanese that makes them aware of the issue and thus stay safe of ordering something that contains a sauce or soup made of shrimp . You better also get a proper understanding what causes the allergy so that you know if it 's only shrimp or also crabs or other types of shellfish . Shellfish varieties in Japan are numerous and you want to avoid a misunderstanding . Then you will be ok and enjoy a huge variety of Japanese food . Be aware that in many cases waiters do not know too much about the food they are serving and have to check with the cook about the ingredients of what they serve , so you better have something on the paper that says " Please check with the cook that ... " . Last but not least there is the probably most important warning : The Japanese healthcare system is suffering from a slew of litigation cases which causes many hospitals and clinics to refuse emergency cases . A friend of mine had to be brought to 6 ( ! ) different clinics in Tokyo with a bust appendix until he was accepted . So if the consequences of the allergy are life-threatening , you better ask your doctor at home if you can get any emergency treatment injection or pills to stop or delay the effects of the allergy until you can get accepted in a hospital and get proper treatment . Otherwise you might face dire consequences .
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
An easy option is <URL> ( although there 's also Telecom and Vodafone , if you 're staying in cities , I 'd recommend 2degrees ) . There are many stores in Wellington that sell the sim cards , and last I checked ID was not required ( I last bought a sim there 3 years ago ) . They have a <URL> which shows dozens of locations in Wellington to buy - I usually just go to a newsagent or ' dairy ' ( like a corner store ) . 7/11s are n't in New Zealand , despite being common in Australia ( ! ) .
Short answer , you ca n't . However , you can at least make sure they have an official license , and any other accreditation which might lend some credence to their claims . Look for ones that are licensed by the <URL> , and consider <URL> , to see if anyone has mentioned them or complained about them . All you can do is research , and ask around when you get there as well . Or consider approaching the companies and ask them directly - I 'm sure you 'd not be the first , even if it is rather brazen ;)
When in doubt , follow the instructions given by the foreign consulate . You ca n't really go wrong ; worst case , they 'll tell you what to do and it should n't be a radical difference from the posted information . They seem to process things very quickly , and the process is very similar to the process for getting a US visa from Canada ( which I 've done ) . So I will answer as if you have not read the page you linked :P Yes , <URL> . <URL> ( possibly now outdated ) has the details for the " L " tourist visa . Previously the submission requirements included : Your US passport and a copy of its information page A photo of yourself , subject to the usual requirements of size etc. . The completed visa application form $ 130
You should apply to the <URL> or the <URL> in Rotterdam . Here is the <URL> . You may get a visa ( tourist card ) also through your travel agency , even if you do not plan your trip via the agency .
To request a duplicate copy of your tourist card ( " Tarjeta Unica Migratoria " or sometimes " Tarjeta de Turismo " ) , you 'll need to visit the extranjeria office . <URL> Note that they are open from 8 AM until 2 PM . Also , make sure you bring a pen with you . To get there via Metro , take the red line to Santa Lucía and exit Avda . Bernardo O'Higgins Súr . Walk west to San Fransisco and then go south 3 blocks to Eleuterio Ramirez . The building will be on your right . Once you arrive , go to the table next to the entrance and pick up 2 forms : Replacement tourist card ( looks the same as the one you were issued when you arrived in the country ) . Note that it has 3 carbon copies . A full-size form to request the replacement ( I forget exactly what it 's called , but it 's the only other form on the table that mentions a tourist card ) . <URL> Fill out the forms ( you did remember to bring a pen , right ? ) , and then walk straight to cubicle 10 . There is no signage ; you 're just supposed to know that this is where you go to replace your tourist card . There may be an informal line in front of this cubicle ; be prepared to do a little negotiation . Also note that the PDI agent who processes your forms will probably only know Spanish . Important : You do not need to take a number * , and you do not need to visit the cashier ( " caja " ) ** . There is no fee to replace your tourist card . The whole process should take about 30 minutes . * Source : four hours of my life that I will never get back . ** Source : another 30 minutes of my life that I also will never get back .
Vegan is more than possible in Japan . There are a number of <URL> on the topic that I suggest you look at . In terms of the specifics of a sushi restaurant , the vegan basics are : Kappa maki - cucumber roll カッパ巻き Natto maki - roll with natto 納豆巻き Abokado nigiri/maki - avocado nigiri or maki アボカドにぎり Ume shiso maki - Plums paste with shiso herbs -- see Footnote 1 梅しそ巻き <URL> zushi - rice in an inari ( fried tofu ) wrapper - See Footnote 2 稲荷寿し <URL> maki - pickled daikon maki お新香巻き <URL> maki - dried calabash gourd maki かんぴょう巻き You can also ask for your own maki variations - especially if you can see the chef in front of you : Ninjin avokado maki - carrot - avocado maki 人参アボカド巻き Kyuuri to ninjin maki - cucumber and carrot maki 胡瓜と人参巻き <URL> maki - burdock root ( used in <URL> ) wrap - see Footnote 3 - ごぼう巻き Spinach ( horenso ほうれん草 ) , bamboo shoots ( takenoko たけのこ ) - see Footnote 3 Most sushi chefs will understand basic english terms with the exception of cucumbers ( kyuuri ) . They should take making a vegan sushi for you as a fun challenge . Now not technically sushi , but riceballs can be usually ordered at a sushi restaurant : Yaki onigiri - roasted rice ball with seaweed wrapper ( with toasted sesame seeds ) 焼きおにぎり Onigiri - rice ball with seaweed wrapper おにぎり Ume onigiri - rice ball with plum paste 梅おにぎり Konbu onigiri - rice ball with konbu seaweed 昆布おにぎり Footnote 1 : Real home-made or chef-made umeboshi plum paste does n't use katsuobushi ( bonito flakes ) . As long as you 're not at a chain restaurant , you can ask the chef if the umeboshi has katsuobushi ( 梅干しには鰹節が入っていますか ？ umeboshi ni wa katsuobushi wa haitte imasuka ) . They may give you the stink eye because it 's like asking a haute cuisine French chef if their roux has corn starch in it . Footnote 2 : Inari sushi is great if you can make sure that they do n't dip the fried tofu wrappers in a non-vegan dashi ( not all places dip them in dashi , most just soak them in mirin which is vegan ) . Footnote 3 : Spinach and bamboo shoots ( and occasionally burdock root ) are usually steamed with katsuobushi ( bonito ) dashi stock . They may be able to make a vegan variation if they still have the raw ingredients and like you . Bonus section If you 're in Kyoto , try to visit a Kyoyasai （ 京野菜 ) restaurant -- these serve heritage vegetables from the Kyoto area . Yum . If you 're by a Buddhist temple , try Shojinryori （ 精進料理 ) -- <URL> which has no meat . For both , you should make sure that the dashi ( stock ) is vegan , made from kelp ( konbu dashi ) or mushrooms ( shiitake dashi ) and not from bonito ( katsuobushi ) . A real temple would n't serve bonito dashi but a restaurant might ( especially in the case of kyoyasai which is more about the heritage vegetables and not about being vegan ) .
end question
start question
Cancellation with Brittany Ferries on debit card ?
Own experience/common knowledge answer , so no links . If you booked a ticket on which there is no free cancelation within the last 24 hours , you owe the company the money . If you make it impossible to get the money from your debit card , you may be charged in an other way . Your best bet is to claim back from your travel insurance . Sometimes companies allow you to change your booking to a date in the future rather than canceling , you will not get back ( or not pay ) your money but you might be able to get the date changed to a date you can travel .
You can travel on most public transportation in London with your Oyster Card - Bus , Tube , tram , DLR ( Docklands Light Railway ) , London Overground , and Thames Clipper boats . You can even use it on the Emirates Air Line . The Oyster Card gives you a wide area of travel . The Tube has 9 zones . As long as you start and finish your journey within these 9 zones , you can use your Oyster Card . You can find more information here : <URL> You mentioned Paddington - You can not use your Oyster Card on the Heathrow Express which travels between Paddington and Heathrow Airport . But , you can easily use it at Paddington on the Tube ( Bakerloo , Circle , District , and Hammersmith &amp; City lines ) . Starting in September 2015 , you can easily touch in and touch out on the Thames Clipper boats with your Oyster Card to pay for your river travel . This makes travel on the river Thames easy . Here is a map of the routes it takes : <URL>
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
Another dual-citizen Kiwi here . Our government actually has pages on this , and whilst it 's fine for you to travel on either passport , it 's best to enter NZ when you return on your NZ passport - otherwise you 're not technically a resident , and would have to have a visa and so on . The relevant links : <URL> <URL> although the first one is really the one applicable to you .
You can pay for almost everything by Visa or Mastercard in Paris . There might be a minimum purchase amount of a few euros ; 5 or 10 euros used to be common but many places have lowered that minimum . There are only a few places where you should expect to have to pay in cash : Street stalls , e.g. markets . Some merchants will take cards but not all . Markets are the best place to buy produce ( do n't buy produce from a French supermarket ) . Shops that mostly sell low-ticket items -- mostly bakeries . Many do n't take cards , and the ones that do wo n't take them for just a croissant . Maybe some cafés in out-of-the-way neighborhoods ( but definitely not cafés in any halfway upscale or touristy place ) . I 've never seen a place that took Mastercard and not Visa or vice versa . On the other hand , most shops do n't take American Express , apart from hotels , upscale restaurants and fashion stores .
This is an update from March 2016 . The ferry company mentioned in the other <URL> now states : [ ... ] as January 2016 , ferry operators are still awaiting final approval and licensing from the Cuban government . Because of this , CubaKat ( and other ferry companies ) are waiting to begin full operations . and CubaKat 's goal is to offer our ferry service , from the Florida Keys to ports within Cuba , some time in 2016 . Currently , we 're working with officials from both countries to make this venture a reality . Whereas at least the second statement sounds more like a marketing statement than a reliable prediction . The Miami Herald run an <URL> on this last month , and wrote the following Nierenberg now expects U.S. ferries to be sailing to Havana by late 2016 or early 2017 . quoting and official from another ferry company . Overall it seems like there is no official answer yet .
Having arrived at Malta airport February 1 , 2016 , there was a booth ( I think towards the right hand side from Arrivals ) where I was able to purchase a Tallinja card for $ 21 for 7-days . The booth also accepts Amex cards . This covers the whole of Malta and Gozo ( Għawdex ) . Whether or not this can be topped-up I 'm not sure . <URL>
As far as I know Oyster card is only valid in London . They are trying to extend it to neighbouring towns ( I think at some point you will be able to use it on train services to get to some of the airports ) , but definitely it does n't work in Leeds . Note that if you have a contactless credit/debit card , you can use this one instead . There are daily caps on all travel in London which are the same as a daily ticket , and I think at least at the beginning there was a weekly cap . More details : <URL>
Route-by-route load factors are proprietary information which airlines guard zealously -- why inform your competitors about where you 're making your money and where there 's slack in the system ? Indeed , in 2004 , now-defunct JetsGo sued WestJet accusing the latter of <URL> , and of using that information to " gain an unfair competitive advantage over Jetsgo and prey upon Jetsgo 's business and operations by targeting both profitable and vulnerable routes , flight times and fares . " The best we can do is make guesses on flight-by-flight load factors based on things like available fares . After all , a flight that has plenty of T fares at 21 days out probably is n't that full . Some airlines , like United , offer an " <URL> " interface where you can see available booking classes . You could alternatively subscribe to a service like <URL> , which has the same information for multiple airlines . I would caution that seat maps are notoriously unreliable guides , as not everyone selects a seat prior to the day of departure . The seat map may be wide open , but that 's because it does n't include the tour group of 24 scheduled to be on that flight . I would add that steady capacity reductions over the last 5-10 years , enabled by airline mergers and forced by high fuel prices , mean that most flights on network carriers will be very full . As recently as 2005 , United would a block middle seat as an unpublished perk for Premier Executives , but I ca n't tell you the last flight I 've been on where the middle seat has been empty , even in Economy Plus .
Although I have not found an official statement yet , many people on the Web insist that empirically there is no expiration . <URL> Can I get a refund for the remaining balance ? T-Money cards have no expiration date and the unused balance will remain on your card until the entire amount is used up . You can receive a refund for the balance on your card at convenience stores like GS25 that charges KRW 500 ( RM 1.43 ) fee and the card price of KRW 2,500 is not refundable . <URL> Or , you can just keep the T-money and the money on it for the next time you come to Korea because it NEVER expires !! <URL> My sister lives in China , and her T-money card from 4 years ago still worked . So for the time being let me make this question resolved as it has no expiration .
There is always a possibility you will not be admitted . The visa waiver programme is intended for infrequent , short visits Immigration may find two entrances at maximum length separated by such a short space of time suspicious . I suspect you would not be denied entry , but you may be subject to extra questioning on your second entry which could take a few hours and be quite unpleasant . You will need to be ready to show that you have a plan to spend your time , that you are a tourist , that you have sufficient funds to sustain yourself , and you do not intend to defeat any immigration rules such as by overstaying or trying to work . It is up to you to prove this , not for US CBP to prove the opposite . It may be better to obtain a proper B2 six month tourist visa instead .
No , officially it is not possible to receive a passport check stamp for both flights . Source : I tweeted Ryanair if you could get the passport check stamp for both flights if one had two flights the same day and they were fast to respond that no , unfortunately not . <URL> That being said , I would for sure try and ask at your first departure if they would kindly also stamp your second boarding pass . I do not see anything airport - / flight-specific about the stamp as far as I can tell from <URL>
The USA Passport Card is really only useful if you plan to travel only within the countries bordering the USA . In terms of back up id in the event you lose your passport , your current state drivers license is perfectly acceptable as an ID for going to US Embassies and Consulates . And is the preferred form of ID within the USA . While the Passport Card might allow the overseas consul to look up your lost passport details faster , I do n't think it would make it that much difference in the end result . Personally , I made a wallet sized copy of the info page of my passport , which travels in my wallet all of the time . I also have a scanned copy stored online that I can access from a computer . The wallet sized versions satisfies most law enforcement officers should they ask to see my passport when traveling around inside a country ( assuming my passport is not on me at that moment ) .
Turkish Airlines published a notice on their website regarding this very issue . Unfortunately the link is currently down ( probably due to the large load ) , but here is a <URL> : <URL> Dear Passengers , Due to the incident that has taken place at Ataturk International Airport on 28 June 2016 , passengers who have bookings on the flights from/to and connected Istanbul Ataturk Airport between 28 Jun - 05 Jul 2016 , provided that they submit their request until 31 Jul 2016 : 1 ) All rebooking and rerouting will be made without any charge . 2 ) Refund requests : a ) Unused tickets : Refund will be made without any charge ; or b ) For partially used tickets , when planned trip is not complete ; the remaining flights will be refunded without any charge . 3 ) Extension of ticket validity : Validity of ticket can be extended until 31 Jul 2016 ( included ) without any fare difference or charge . We kindly ask our passengers to check the latest information about their flights before their trip on our web site or call center . ( 90 212 444 0 849 ) Regards Turkish Airlines Unfortunately this does not apply to you as you are traveling in August . Even if it did apply in your situation , you would have a difficult time getting any recourse from Turkish Airlines as the ticket was purchased through a third party . Thus , your only recourse is to ask flighthub.ca for a refund , and <URL> : The majority of airline reservations booked in economy class are non-refundable and non exchangeable . In some cases an airline may issue a credit voucher in lieu of a cash refund , which can be used for future travel with that airline . Please be aware that these vouchers are usually valid for one year from the date the original ticket was issued . In the event where the ticket you purchased is refundable it will be subject to penalties imposed by the airline as well as a processing fee by FlightHub . Any cancellations will be handled on the day the request was made . Please note that any refunds can take as long as 6 weeks to appear on your credit card statement .
Aha , a site that @Ankur only just showed me earlier this week comes in handy in answering ! The <URL> would appear to answer your question . You have three main choices - O2 , Vodafone and TMobile . It appears ... that O2 might be the best option , as it looks like their acceptable use policy is that once you 've used the small amount of data a day , the speed throttles down . Best to confirm this when you buy , of course . If all you 're using it for is a little geocaching , you may not need much data and this could work ? ( as an aside , why do you need data to geocache ? If you have predownloaded maps ( eg Navdroyd app on Android ) , then all you need is GPS reception , which does n't use data ... ) However , obviously it 'll depend on what else you want it for , for how long , and what speeds , so I suggest having a look at the page and seeing what suits best .
You can use the InterRail with any train in France ( or Europe ) run by state railways except the Eurostar ( from Paris to London ) . If you 're going to use the TGV you have to know that reservations are mandatory so you 'll have to take care of that before getting into a TGV . When you 'll receive your InterRail it will contain some papers that tell you what train require reservations , maps and other useful informations so you do n't have to worry about anything . RATP is not supported because it 's just for Paris metropolitan area . As long as you travel between two cities ( towns , villages , etc. ) and the train is from SNCF ( or any other state railways company in Europe ) you can use your Interrail pass . And yes , www.bahn.de is the best when it comes to information about trains in Europe . I have found free rooms in all cities I 've been to but it takes so little to book a room that I highly recommend doing it because you do n't want to lose precious time searching for hotels .
The official website does not explain what to do in that scenario but the DB is very specific about it : You have to travel with the exact ( credit or ID ) card registered as a token when you booked the ticket , no exceptions . If the card expired , you are expected to present the old , expired card instead of the new one ( or possibly both if you are travelling with a Bahncard ) . And it does not seem possible to change the token , even in person and with a very good reason , let alone online or from abroad . Various forum posts ( from people who had their credit card or ID card stolen or from DB support staff answering their questions ) all confirm that you really are supposed to buy a new ticket , even if you can present another ID and some document from the police confirming the previous one was stolen . Rail guards do have the option to let it slip but apparently the recommended procedure is to charge you for the - current and therefore possibly higher - price of a ticket with a small surcharge ( Bordpreis ) and invite you to ask the customer service for a ( partial ) refund as a commercial gesture ( Kulanz ) . At this point , it therefore seems that you have the choice between two ( bad ) options : Cancel your ticket and buy another one . It will cost you some but at least you know exactly how much and you have some peace of mind during the trip . Try your luck , with the downside being that you might be forced to buy an even more expensive ticket in the train . Not necessarily the end of the world but rather frustrating . Seeking out a member of the crew as soon as possible rather than waiting for them to come to your seat can also be a good idea . No matter what you do , you can also try your luck with the customer service afterward but that sounds like a lot of hassle for a foreign resident . In any case , they are unlikely to issue a full refund and typically give out vouchers ( Gutschein ) for future train travel rather than cold hard cash , which is probably not very useful for you .
Assuming we 're talking about a watch-style or pedometer-style fitness tracker , it should be no problem . Just take it off and put it through the X-ray , like you would with any other electronic device . In rare cases , it 's possible the security agents will ask you to demonstrate that it 's functioning , at which point you could show them the LCD display , but it 's pretty unlikely they 'll ask . Source : personal experience . Also the TSA 's <URL> feature says a Fitbit is fine .
I always have one or two plastic bottles with me . I empty them before I go through security and then re-fill them from a tap in the restroom in the waiting area . I 've done this many times , and security never asked about the empty bottles , and even if they do you can explain what they are for .
A few tidbits about Visa Debit cards ( from the USA I am guessing ) . While they work in all USA ATMs , as you discovered they are not always tied to the Plus ATM network so you need to make sure the ATM machine displays the Visa logo . If you have a choice , when outside the USA the card should be treated as a " credit card " not a " debit card " when used for POS ( points of sale ) transactions ( food , stores , gas , etc ) . The USA systems for pin based debit transactions are n't link to many countries outside . Many banks now limit the cash advance amount to the same as your ATM withdrawal limit . They used to allow you to withdraw up to your daily limit for purchases , but now most treat the advance the same as ATM transactions . If the ATM asks what account , what we call a " checking " account , many countries call a " current " account . Always let your bank known you will be traveling and where .
end question
start question
How to understand the Indian Railways from abroad ?
I actually almost answered this question in your other question :) . Simply put , Indian railways has a very very powerful backend development team ( their reservations were running fine with a cross country network when internet was still unheard of ) , however their front-end team is amateur at best . <URL> which is a reasonably good portal is not owned and operated by Indian Railways , this allows you to reserve your train tickets . However , your answer has to be <URL> , they use the data from Indian Railways website and so they are reliable ( 99 % of the times , but its easy to double check once you zone in on a specific route from the official site ) . They use google maps to demonstrate travel routes , show fares for each class , even link to live train arrival and departure , all using a simple ajax based interface . You just need to know the places you are going to and you are good to go . Finally , <URL> is surprisingly good for travel in India , when they introduced their services ( probably 4 years ago ) the first test I did was from a remote village ( where I worked with Indian Railways ) where the only mode of transport is a train and they had spot on results , I have been shocked by their accuracy many times ( including while trying to answer your previous question about Sambalpur ) .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
There 's a railway station at Old Trafford itself , handily called " Manchester United Foodball Ground " . Looking at the <URL> it looks to be right by the stadium , and <URL> concurs . The <URL> suggests that trains to Old Trafford depart from Manchester Picaddilly , so that should make things easy . However , <URL> suggests trains only stop there on match days , so it depends if you 're going to see the stadium , or a match there . There are <URL> Metrolink tram stations a short walk away , Exchange Quay and Old Trafford . If it is n't a match day , your best bet is probably to change onto the tram to get there .
Each consulate services a fixed geographical area and people from that state are only eligible to have their visa screening done through the respective consulate . This is done to prevent abuse and fraud . If you change your address to somewhere you do n't actually stay , the following may occur : The visa officer may ask your current residence and why it does n't coincide with your paperwork . Unsatisfactory answers may result in rejection of your petition . If approved , your passport may be sent to the address in Telangana / Orissa if not being picked up at the consulate . If the visa officer decided that you are committing fraud , he / she may place additional sanctions on your file thus making any petitions in future harder or impossible to get approved . It is highly advisable to present your visa petition case as honestly as you can . If for some reason , you can not wait till the next available date for your visa interview , then you can request for an emergency interview . Emergency requests are granted outside of the normal interview slots and are granted on a per-case basis . Emergency can be anything ranging from death of an immediate family member , job reporting date drawing near , etc. . Be prepared to explain in detail about the nature of your emergency request .
I think it may vary from country to country , but usually you 're allowed to bring 200 cigattes . From <URL> : Each Member State decides on the limit applicable : 200 cigarettes or 40 cigarettes ; * 100 cigarillos or 20 cigarillos ; * 50 cigars or 10 cigars ; * 250 grams of tobacco or 50 g smoking tobacco * * Each amount represents 100 % of the total allowance for tobacco products and any combination of those products must not exceed 100 % . Example : 100 cigarettes + 50 cigarillos = total allowance <URL> confirms that 200 cigarettes can be brought into Germany tax/duty-free .
ECR is not something the US immigration is concerned with . It is only a formality for India ; and it only applies if you are traveling for work and even then , to a limited set of countries which does not include the US . Here is the official reference , from the <URL> ( I have highlighted the relevant parts ) : Emigration Act , 1983 provides that no citizen of India shall migrate unless he obtains emigration clearance from Protector of Emigrants . Similarly , it has been recognized that certain countries ( currently 17 ) do not have strict laws regulating the entry and employment of foreign nationals . They also do not provide avenues for grievance redressal . Thus they have been categorized as Emigration Check Required ( ECR ) countries . Hence , all persons , having ECR endorsed passports and going to any of the 17 ECR countries for taking up employment require emigration clearance . However , ECR passport holders going to any ECR country for purposes other than employment do not require emigration clearance . No specific mention of ECNR is made on the passports and the ones not endorsed as ECR , automatically belong to ECNR category . If you were to a take any GCC airline , you would be a transit passenger and ECR will not apply . To put it bluntly ; if you are able to exit the country , and you have a valid visa for the US - you should have no issues during your travel and on entry that have to do with your ECR .
There is no problem driving in Morocco if you can not understand Arabic . I think the impression you get from your Google query is not quite correct . The road signs are bilingual Arabic/French , sometimes even with pictograms : <URL> In cities the signage can sometimes be a bit meager . Combined with the Moroccan style of drive , this makes crossing a city a bit more stressful . For overland travel , the signage is fine . Nevertheless it is a good idea to have a road map .
Companies like Western Union ( they 're the biggest and because of the Nigerian scams the most notorious ) exist that allow people to wire cash to other countries . No actual cash is ever transferred of course , it 's these days all electronic :) A person in country A deposits an amount of money with the company , say $ 150 , and lists a recipient in another country . After taking a percentage ( or a fixed fee ) the recipient can then go to the company 's office the money has been " transferred " to and pick it up . If there 's a massive imbalance between offices , no doubt electronic transfers take care of shoring up the actual bank balances of the various national subsidiaries of these global entities . Used to be post offices around the world would cooperate to do much the same , they still may .
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
The wait list system for Indian train tickets is simply a case of supply and demand - there 's so many people wanting to travel and only so many seats to go around . So there are three ' booking statuses ' which may be specified when you book a train ticket : Reserved / confirmed : The booking is confirmed and a seat has been set aside for you . Note that the specific seat may NOT be specified on your ticket even if your ticket is confirmed . This is because the final seating charts are sometimes decided an hour or two before the train departure . More on how to check the final status of your ticket below . RAC ( reservation against cancellation ) : An RAC ticket is a status just above a wait listed ticket , and means you get converted to a confirmed seat in case of a no show by someone else . In most cases , RAC tickets do get converted to confirmed and you can often at least get on the train with an RAC ticket . Waitlisted : You can not get on the train unless the final chart before departure confirms that your seat has been reserved . It 's a first-in , first-out queue of people waiting to get a seat . The reason for this system is that due to demand , many people book tickets months in advance . Due to this - planning months in advance - many people 's travel plans do often change and some people cancel their tickets . Hence , the waitlist system allows you to book a ticket and then wait in queue to be next in line for a reserved seat . Now I mentioned that even with a confirmed ticket , the seat number / coach number might not be mentioned . Regardless of what the ticket says ( confirmed / RAC / waitlist ) , final seating charts are published and put up on notice boards in stations which list the final passenger manifest . You can also check this online ( <URL> ) or the automated telephone line mentioned on the back of your ticket . As a rule of thumb , if your waitlist number is in the range of 10-20 , depending on how busy in the season it is , there is a high chance of your ticket getting confirmed . Because the final charts are not published until a few hours before departure , you might have to wait till quite late to find out - but if it 's in single digits , then it 's almost always true that your ticket gets confirmed . If you really want to be sure , a certain percentage of tickets on every train is set aside for short-notice bookings ( called ' <URL> ' tickets ) which open at 10am , 24 hours before departure . These tickets cost slightly more than normal tickets but give you the flexibility to make bookings at short notice . If your waitlist number is double digits , it makes sense to keep checking the online system to see how quickly your waitlist number is reducing which will give you an idea of whether you 're moving up in queue or not , i.e. , a lower numeric waitlist number - and if it does n't seem to be progressing in the final few days before the journey , then to cancel the original ticket and get a Tatkal ticket instead .
There are n't many flights to El Nido from anywhere , never mind from Cebu or Negros . There used to be a SEAir flight which I 've taken and which was a wonderful experience , taking off from the giant NAIA at Manila in a tiny plane and coming in to land just a few metres above the sea :) You can still fly there on <URL> - but I think resort customers may get priority . <URL> has info on transport to El Nido . Do n't think that the lack of flights shown is due to the page being incomplete - El Nido airfield is just that , a field , and it does n't see much traffic . To cut a long story short , you 'll need to get yourself to Manila and take a ( prebooked ) flight with ITI or any other small airline which may now fly there , or get to Puerto Princesa and go up to El Nido in one of the regular vans . <URL> may also be an option from Manila to PP , if you 're a bit of a masochist . If money is tight , fly Cebu to Puerto and then overland . If money no option , fly to Manila and then to El Nido but do check the flight to El Nido is running and has a seat beforehand ! ( EDIT : ITI website claim the airstrip has been upgraded but so far as I know none of the usual suspects fly there yet - Air Asia , PAL , Cebu Pacific , etc. )
Please bear in mind that it 's a quite long whole day journey . There are the following option to get from Langkawi to Phuket . I believe the same should work in reverse . By ferry : <URL> ( ~ 3300-3700 THB ) Service was launched at the end of 2012 . High season route only ( operating Nov - April ) . Check in point located inside the Kuah Jetty ( located in Kuah Town ) on the Pattaya Beach . Travel Time 10 hrs . Bookings can be made in person at a booth on the pier road in Chalong or by various payment methods over the internet . It appears there is no luggage restriction as there would be when flying . The ferry stops and collects at Koh Lipe ( immigration clearance ) , Trang ( 30 minute break ) , Koh Mook , Koh Kradan , Koh Ngai , Koh Lanta , Koh Phi Phi ( 7 stops in total ) . The Malaysia Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located inside the jetty . If you do not check-in at least 60 minutes prior to departure , you will not be allowed on board of our ferry . The Thailand Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located on Koh Lipe . Note that if there are not enough passengers , they could cancel or postpone the trip . By air : Only in-direct commercial flights either by Penang ( <URL> ) , Kuala Lumpur ( Air Asia ) or Singapore ( Air Asia ) . Check <URL> for further details . Easiest is to fly Langkawi-Penang-Phuket but you have to check schedules work out . If you have extra time in Penang , check the trip to Phi Phi or Khao Lak . By <URL> . They operate daily flights between Langkawi and Phuket . They have a little box office at the airport . Flights and office hours are on Mon , Wed , Fri , Sat-Sun . But I 'm not sure how this information is reliable . Please contact them for further info . By land ( public transport ) : Langawi - Satun By <URL> to Satun ( ~ 300THB ) . It takes around 1,5 h. By <URL> ferry to Koh Lipe ( 1200-1400THB ) , from there to Satun Ferry Port - Pakbara Pier ( 600-700THB ) . There are also pre-organised " tour " tickets that would pick you from your guesthouse in Langawi and deliver straight to the centre of Hat Yai ( ~ RM 70.00 ) . In total it takes around 7 hours . Satun - Phuket or Krabi ( by bus ) As <URL> mentioned , there is a air-con bus from Satun 's bus station to Phuket . Tickets are 400 baht ( 230 baht to Krabi ) and the trip takes about 8 hours . Satun 's bus station is a few kilometres south of town , but buses can be flagged down on Burivanich Road as they leave . Read more at <URL> site . Or : Satun - Hat Yai By taxi , motorcycle taxis or small songthaews . By van ( on an hourly basis ) . By local bus . It takes around 3-4 hours in total . You can tell the bus driver where you wanted to get off in Hat Yai and he will try to get you as close as he can . It costs around 80 THB . Hat Yai - Phuket By direct bus ( around 7 hours ) . By train Hat Yai to Surat Thani ( for Ko Samui , Krabi ) . Check <URL> site for trains details . Then road to Phuket . Surat Thani is about 290km from Phuket . This road journey by bus to Phuket from Surat Thani takes about 5-6hrs . By van that goes to Phuket on an hourly basis . By air , check the <URL> site for further details . By land ( by car ) : By ferry to Satun , from there by car or taxi along the coastal ( faster ) or inner road . Along the coastal road , the next major town , after Satun is Trang ( Satun to Trang is about 110kms ) , which is about 320kms ( route distance ) from Phuket . After Trang is another town called Krabi , which is about 90kms from Phuket . There is the alternative of going to Hat Yai from Satun , about 60kms , then taking a domestic flight to Phuket , via Bangkok ; fastest available connecting flights makes this flight journey in about 3 hrs 50 mins ( via TG ) . All other flights e.g. Thai AirAsia , One To Go , Nok Air - also fly into Phuket via Bangkok . ( <URL> ) Ferry map : Note that Langawi local time is 1 hour ahead of Thai time ( GMT +8 ) . See also : <URL> by Tanya <URL> at TripAdvisor
You can find the site at <URL> but AFAIK it 's Persian only . I am slightly curious as to what you searched for on Google , really :
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
The " Red Service Sleeper Cabin " is 2nd class and they indeed have power outlets . At least in 2007 I charged my laptop to watch movies on the train . I heard beforehand that the food is n't that great at least not worth the money , so I brought food to cater myself . Bring a book and lots of movies/series to watch . I 'm not sure about the booking ahead . I just provide you links to <URL> and <URL> . source : <URL>
Have a read of the <URL> section of <URL> . It details exactly what you need to do to get an account ( depending on the credit card you plan to use ) , how to get it verified , and then information on booking the tickets . It 's fiddly , takes a couple of days , but I can confirm that it works as I used it last month to book tickets ! ( You 'll end up using the official booking sites , either IRCTC or ClearTrip depending on your credit card , but the process of registering for them as a foreigner without an Indian mobile phone is fiddly so you 'll need to follow the Seat61 advice ! )
Tatkal tickets are exactly the same as normal tickets , except on a priority quota . You do n't need any special documents to book or travel with those tickets . ( Source : My dad 's general manager at Indian Railways ) With the changes in rules , you need to provide ID number of any document such as PAN Card or Driving Licence or Passport of one of the passengers in the reservation form and produce the same to the TT when he/she comes to check your ticket in the train .
When you take an overnight train in Russia and you book a sleeping compartment ( there are two classes of these ) , the compartments come with a mattress and a pillow . For the additional option you have asked about , , an attendant will come around and deliver a bottom sheet , top sheet , a pillow case , and a blanket . It 's impeccably sanitary and well-advised for this reason . If you do not purchase the option you get the standard mattress and uncased pillow , less sanitary . You do not get the previous passenger 's stuff ( except his detritus ) ; previously used bed clothing gets collected by the attendant .
There 's a number of options , depending on your exact circumstances . 1 . Your own car insurance . If you own your own car , and it 's insured , then your insurance MAY cover you when you are in a rental car . Often there are fairly strict rules around what is covered , especially as you 're asking about overseas coverage which may often simply not be covered at all . Check your policy and/or call your agent/insurance company to find out exactly what is covered . 2 . " CDW " or " LDW " . Most rental companies will offer a " Collision Damage Waiver " or " Loss Damage Waiver " when renting the car . In effect , this " waiver " means that the rental company waives their right to charge you for any damage to the car when you return it ( normally with exception related to you breaking the law , drink/driving , etc ) . Technically it 's not insurance , but the end result is basically the same . LDW/CDW is often very expensive , and in some cases can double or more the cost of the rental , but the coverage you get as a result is normally very good . 3 . Travel Insurance Many travel insurance policies will cover rental cars . Exactly what is covered will vary from policy to policy , so make sure you read the fine print - especially the different between " primary " and " secondary " coverage ( more on that below ) . 4 . Credit Card SOME ( but now days , far from all ) credit cards have some form of coverage for rental cars when the rental car is charged to the card . Check the specifics on your card to see if rental insurance is included , and whether it 's secondary or primary coverage ( most will be secondary ) . More and more only the higher level of cards are including this coverage ( especially for MasterCard cards ) so never presume that it 's included without checking ! If you do have coverage then you normally do n't have to do anything more than book/pay for the rental using the relevant card to be covered . Primary v 's Secondary coverage Most credit card coverage is what 's called " Secondary " coverage . This means that in the event of an accident you need to first claim against any other insurance you have available to you ( eg , your personal car insurance policy , travel insurance , etc ) , and only if they do not cover the full amount are you able to claim against your credit card . This obviously could have implications when it comes to the renewal price for your insurance ( just as if you 'd had the accident in your own car ) , plus means that you need to file 2 claims to get paid in full . Some credit cards offer " Primary " coverage , either by default , or more for an additional fee . eg , American Express call this <URL> and it costs US$ 18-25 per rental ( NOT per day ! ) . The coverage is better than you 'll get with the default " secondary " coverage , but it 's normally only offered on some high-end cards and some " Business " cards ( and then often only for business rentals ) , or at an extra fee such as with Amex .
end question
start question
How early should I contact potential hosts for couchsurfing ?
Here 's my recommendation as a former host of 30 + people on Couchsurfing . Step 0 Book commercial accommodation . You never know if you find someone or not , so it 's best to prebook something for the duration of your trip , and then cancel as late as possible once you have confirmations for a given night . Both Booking.com and Hostelworld.com allow free cancellations for up to 24 hours before check-in . Be aware that , unlike a hotel , hosts can cancel your stay at any time , so nothing is fully guaranteed . Step 1 Check how busy is the city which you plan to visit . NYC is going to be a lot more busy than Montpelier , Vermont . Step 2 Check if there are any special holidays around the days of your stay . I usually got as many as 20 requests for NYE in Prague , as compared to 1-2 requests for other days of the year . Another thing to watch out for is the current season . A lot more people visit Europe in the summer as compared to winter , for example . Step 3 Depending on 1 . and 2. , send a message anytime between 30 and 5 days . More for big cities and holidays , less for small cities at a quiet time of the year . Make you sure you state an exact date and an approximate time of arrival , as well as the exact number of people in your party . Try to message hosts who have logged into the website in the past 3 days , as this makes it much more likely that they will at least read your message .
I never used a bidet , but in my travels I always have a pack of wet tissues with me . There is a lot of choice around - from individually packed to large , 50 + pieces packs , antibacterial , scented , for make-up removal , etc. . You can choose between hand wipes , facial wipes or even baby wipes . There are a couple of good things about them . First of all , they are versatile - you can use them as a bidet substitute but also to cleanse your hands before/after food , to refresh your face and in general , to clean your skin if it gets dirty . They are much lighter than a bottle of water so can be easily carried around in a pocket or a small bag . In places where water is scarce it seems like a waste to have a dedicated water for the ' bidet business ' . Wet wipes are also easy to share between fellow travellers . And finally , if you are travelling by plane only with the hand luggage , you can take your wet wipes on board ( at least according to what <URL> . )
There is a minimum checkin time for Eurostar trains , which is generally 30 minutes before departure ( see below for details ) , but it does vary . Before listing the times , it 's worth thinking a little bit about how the Eurostar checkin process works , as that explains why it is as it is . When you get to the station , you need to checkin with your ticket , either using the automated ticket gates , or with one of the checkin counters ( normally only if you have a problem ) . The deadline is for going through here . After that , there 's normally a small queue ( varies with the number of services due out ) before the security screening . You can take a <URL> , but there are still <URL> . Your bags get x-ray 'd , you go through a metal detector , then you queue up again for the juxtaposed border controls . You show your passport , and clear immigration for the country you 're going to ( either France of the UK , depending on direction ) . After that , you 're into the waiting area before boarding ( and frequent travellers can visit the lounge ) Boarding of Eurostar trains normally begins 20 minutes before departure , and they tend to close the doors a minute or two before the scheduled departure time so they can leave on time . For the ski trains , and summer Avignon service to the south of France , boarding starts earlier , often 35 minutes before . For most people , on most services , the <URL> . If you 're travelling on a Business Premier ticket ( the really expensive ones ) , or you have a Eurostar Carte Blanche frequent traveller card ( lots of journeys in a year ) , then the minumum checkin is 10 minutes before . However , as you do still need to clear security and immigration , you 're probably going to have to run to the train , and there wo n't be time to go in the lounge with only 10 minutes , so getting there earlier is probably advised , especially at busy times ! For the long distance services to Avignon and the Ski Trains , the minimum checkin is 1 hour ( 60 minutes ) before departure . Boarding starts earlier for these , and most people have more luggage , so it all takes a bit longer hence the extra time . Anyone with <URL> needs to add 30 minutes extra . The minimum checkin enforcement varies a little bit . If it 's quiet , you may get away with 25 minutes , but that 's about it . At a very quiet time , you can clear security an immigration in about 5 minutes , but at busy times with lots of queuing it 'll take longer . At a busy time , they tend to be pretty strict !
If you do not look like a native , then you will be hounded by paupers/beggars . If you help one , generally onlooking beggars may come asking you for money as well . The rule to respect would be to ignore anyone asking for money - a conversation is n't going to lead anywhere . Keep yourself safe - do not make a display of your money . You never know who 's looking at you and what they have in mind .
AirBnb : You can host people in your house and they will pay you for it . You should have your house ready to receive guests , like a clean house , good services like air conditioning , heating , be attentive and polite with your guests . Even some hosts give complimentary services , like breakfast , free beer , water or other things . It is like a little hotel with 1 , 2 or 3 rooms . You charge for the services and you have an obligation for good service to them . I would like to say , that you will have to pay taxes for the service . Couchsurfing : You are inviting people to sleep in your house ( sometime it can be just go for a walk with them , not just hosting ) . In that case , you are not " obliged " to get anything ready . Otherwise , it would be very polite from you to have a clean house or good services , but it just depend on you an the guest should not complain for anything , as long as they are not paying for anything . Even sometimes , host can bring you a little present , cook for you or pay a dinner or for drinks if you go out together . But it just happens sometimes . In both cases , you will be rated and shared the experience with the community .
Every ( tourist ) hostel in the old town of Cartagena in Colombia can arrange a taxi for you at any time . I would think any hotel can as well . If you 're on your own , you could try your best at calling a taxi company and arranging a pickup . But , asking for help at one of the tourist offices would probably be a better bet . Unless your Spanish is good . If you are comfortable walking through the old town in the middle of the night , taxis are waiting for rides on the eastern corner of the old town , near <URL> . I 've never been to the airport in Cartagena , but considering it 's not a small town , I would think that aiming for 4AM would not be a bad idea . But , that 's speculation .
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
I suggest <URL> I tend to avoid having to rent cars , but the few times I have , I found these guys to be the cheapest . They source car hires from multiple providers and , consistently , for me , have been cheaper than renting with the individual providers themselves .
Do n't pack anything . You 'll find much cheaper , and probably better , plug adapters all over India . Expect to pay Rs 15-30 for simple ones that just accommodate US-style plugs , and Rs 40-50 for full universal ones . You can find them at any general store/convenience store in major cities and tourist locations , but might get a better selection at electrician 's shops .
Personally I did n't plan much , just went with the flow , but that depends on how much freedom you have . Work out how much time you have . Bear in mind that a Russian tourist visa is 30 days , but you can get a Business visa for tourist purposes ( I had zero problems ) and that 's valid for 60 days , multiple entry . Work out your budget . Hostels are pretty cheap in most cities . However , Moscow and St Petersburg are expensive - European expensive . Starbucks in Moscow ( I use it for my price gauge ) was frightening ! Work out what cities you want to stop off in . You do NOT want to just train from end to end . Remember , Russia is BIG . Russia is LONG . Russian trains are SLOW . There are frequent stops - although they are almost to the minute reliable , in my experience . As an indication , Moscow to Novosibirsk takes 52 hours . Work out what class you want to travel in . Platzkart is fun to do for some segments - you get beds in a 54-bed carriage . It 's social , you meet lots of people . Kupe class is 4-beds in a cabin . More secure and quiet , but if you get crappy roommates , it can suck . Work out if you want top or bottom bunk - the price varies . Also some trains ( Between St Petersburg and Moscow , for example ) can also offer merely seating class - but you always seem to get 2 seats or more to yourself , so can sleep quite comfortably , although it 's a lot less secure , and you quite often get drunken soldiers or louts keeping you awake . Work out what sites are near each city , and therefore how long you want to spend there . As a starting point , Moscow does n't near nearly as much time as St Petersburg . Also be aware that if you stop in Irkutsk , you 'll want to go to Lake Baikal , which to do properly you 'll want three days , minimum . Work out a rough guide for length , activities , price and see if this fits into your visa . Look at flights in and out of start and end points ( I assume you 're not going both ways on the train ) . Look at visas for Mongolia and China - but you can pick these up in Irkutsk , Russia quite easily ( Mongolian visa takes 2 days , or less if you 're prepared to pay ) . Do you want to go into the desert in Mongolia ? It 's a minimum 4-5 day tour from Ulaanbaatar . Assuming you finish in Beijing , allow time to travel there as well . Put a couple of buffer / rest days in here and there . Although you will get a lot of resting time on the trains . Learn the ten most useful phrases . Hello , thank you , train station , bus station " where is x " , your country in Russian , and " what time is x " is an excellent start . Decide if you 're going to buy all your tickets outside the country . Personally I would n't , it gives you more flexibility and I 've never had a problem getting a train ticket even the day before in Russia - well , aside from in Irkutsk after 7pm . Get invitation , get visa , buy flights . Go to Russia , and enjoy it !
Boston Logan is one of the most efficient airports I have flown in and out of . It is also a huge airport . From my experience , if you do n't require assistance , I reckon you be at the airport at least an hour before your flight departs .
In April , the only period to watch out for would be <URL> at the very end of the month ( April 29-May 5 ) , when transport gets packed . Early April will be fine though , and you 'll have no problem reserving seats on the same day .
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
TL ; DR - it depends on your ticket , but something like 15-45 mins before There are two main sets of maps available for Kings Cross station , <URL> , and one that <URL> : Your train to Leeds will almost certainly leave from platforms 0-8 , which are the right hand set on the map above . They 're the main , long platforms used for almost all the long distance trains , and a a few of the shorter distance ones . When you arrive at Kings Cross , you 'll want to head to the main waiting area , which is the long grey area on the map that goes past the ticket office . Here you 'll see some very large departure boards . Your train will typically show on here 2 hours before departure , but without a platform . Around 15 minutes before departure , depending somewhat on when the inbound train has arrived and been cleaned , the platform number will go up on the board , and they 'll announce the platform . Assuming it 's a 0-8 platform , you then either walk south to by the main entrance , and through the gate line there , or take the escalators by the Cafe Nero by 9-11 up , and the overbridge to drop you down onto your platforms . Even with kids and a few bags either route should be fine . Long distance trains typically close their doors 1-2 minutes before departure , and they stop announcing the platform 2-3 minutes before departure . Without kids , do n't cut it finer than about 5 minutes before departure . With kids , minimum 10 minutes . As for how early to arrive , it depends somewhat on how you 're getting there , and if your ticket can be used on other trains . If it 's an Advanced Purchase ticket only valid on that train , allow extra time on your journey so you 're sure you 're there . 30 mins , maybe longer if it 's a long way . If not , the Leeds trains are pretty frequent . Once you 're at the station , the issue you may face is that there are n't that many places to sit , and the area in front of the departure boards can be quite crowded at busy times . There 's half a dozen cafes and eateries with seating , so you could head to one of those . The pub by platform 9 3/4 is busy in the evening , but in the day you should be able to get a table . On a nice day , head out the exit by platforms 9-11 , and you can sit outside there , or take a short walk to the canal if you need to kill a bit more time ! The other thing to know is that St Pancras station is literally just across the road , and has slightly more in the way of shops and restaurants . It may make sense to sit down over there and have a bite to eat , then return across the road / along the underpass . Head back to KX around 15 mins before and pretty much go straight onto the train .
There 's <URL> you 'll have to meet to sit in an exit row , such as being in good health . If you meet those , I do n't think you have to worry . In the case of an emergency , you 'd have to assess the situation outside before opening the window and throwing it out of the plane . You 'll be briefed by the flight attendant , so do n't worry if you do n't know exactly what you have to do beforehand .
According to the <URL> in your question , you do seem to <URL> of a B-1 visa : If you apply for a B-1 / B-2 visa , you must demonstrate to a consular officer that you qualify for a U.S. visa in accordance with the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act ( INA ) . Section 214 ( b ) of the INA presumes that every B-1 / B-2 applicant is an intending immigrant . You must overcome this legal presumption by showing : That the purpose of your trip to the United States is for a temporary visit , such as business , pleasure , or medical treatment That you plan to remain in the United States for a specific , limited period of time Evidence of funds to cover your expenses while in the United States That you have a residence outside the United States , as well as other binding social or economic ties , that will ensure your return abroad at the end of your visit You may need a letter from the company that you are interviewing with , stating that they have invited you to their office for a professional matter . You will also ( per the second item on the list above ) be required to show your return ticket to Russia to prove that your stay in the US is specific and limited . I suggest talking to whoever scheduled your interview to see if they have experience with international candidates ( many companies can help their job candidates figure out what the necessary paperwork is ) , and keep trying to get in touch with the US embassy near you . It seems pretty clear that B-1 is the type of visa you need , but it 's always best to make sure with the US government directly .
You 'll find that it varies from host to host , and this is often indicated on their profile . Some are excited to meet new people , but ca n't actually host - so they 'll often just say they want to meet you in town for a coffee or similar . Others will have a bed and a spare room , and can be amazingly generous . However they do understand that you 're travelling , are on a budget , and while they may want to show you around the city , they 'll also ( usually ) be keen to help you enjoy your time while on your budget . Some just want a new person to talk to in the evenings , while others will take you around . I 'd suggest signing up , creating a profile , and then looking around at some of the profiles in the cities you wish to visit . It 'll give you an idea of what they 're looking for in a guest - often they 'll say in their profiles that perhaps they just wish to practise a new language , or they like meeting new people . As for bringing a gift or taking them to dinner - do whatever feels comfortable , and do n't force them into it either . Some cultures it 's very important to treat a person when they come to your city/house , while others it 's customary to bring something - that will depend on where you go , and is probably a topic for another question . ;)
Yes , just apply for it with a few days buffer either side . I 've done this twice . The first time I entered as expected as it was very much a holiday . The second time I was travelling up Finland to the arctic circle , and then crossing there . The buses from Rovaniemi were not every day , so I ended up bussing to Ivalo , and then to Murmansk , getting there a couple of days later than planned . The only confusion at the border was that I was a Kiwi arriving on a Russian bus company from somewhere in Finland . And on a Russian business visa . But once the border guy was over that , there were no problems . Point is , I arrived a couple of days into the period my visa was valid for . And there is no problem with that - it 's just a maximum period of validity , not a fixed arrival/exit date . All websites will tell you - DO NOT book flights before applying for the visa , in case you do n't get it . However if you want to in order to save money , you might still consider doing it - I certainly did the first time . It 's a calculated risk , if you 're going as a tourist , have no criminal issues or problems that may give them problems with giving you a visa , have an invite and have travel insurance , there 's very little theoretical chance of them denying you . However , stranger things have happened . Personally I never book accommodation more than a few days in advance - which has caused me some grief ( I got the very last bed at the hostel I 'm staying at in Seattle this weekend ) , but one thing to be aware of with Russia is that they often ask where you 're staying . Last time I was n't sure , and just put the 5 biggest cities I was likely going through . That worked fine , and the cities are n't listed on your actual visa . If you 're worried and are happy with hostels , you can always just book one with Hostelbookers and if you do n't get your visa , email them and cancel your booking . You only lose your 10 % deposit .
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
end question
start question
Is it possible for a U.S. citizen to rent a car in Brazil ?
You need the drivers license from your home country an <URL> that serves as a translation . Even if there is no legal requirement for this ( I found conflicting information on this ) , you can not rely that the policeman who stops you in the road nor the clerk at the car rental knows English well enough to read your US license . There are different ages required depending on the rental agency . <URL> you to be 21 , <URL> .
There 's a legal minimun age to drive in Panama , but besides that some companies may have their own policies . <URL> says the driver must be at least 23 years old and <URL> requires drivers to be at least 21 years of age . About documentation you should have a passport and your country 's drivers license ( or the international drivers license ) . If you original license is written in a non-latin alphabet ( arabic , cyrillic , e.g. ) you must have the international one .
No , officially it is not possible to receive a passport check stamp for both flights . Source : I tweeted Ryanair if you could get the passport check stamp for both flights if one had two flights the same day and they were fast to respond that no , unfortunately not . <URL> That being said , I would for sure try and ask at your first departure if they would kindly also stamp your second boarding pass . I do not see anything airport - / flight-specific about the stamp as far as I can tell from <URL>
I 've had a friend in a similar situation who has had success with <URL> . This is what their website says in terms of license requirements : Documentation - all drivers must produce all parts of a valid driving license . Non-EU license holders are required to have an international driving permit if the license is not in English . Domestic renters must produce a photo ID - passport or driving license . International travelers must produce a passport , proof of return travel and residency information while in the U.K. renters who wish to use a debit card are also required to produce two proofs of address such as a bank or credit card statement , which are less than three months old and may be subject to additional checks . We reserve the right to request additional ID or conduct further ID checks . These may include ID checks with external partners who may check supplied details against databases to which they have access . With that being said I would suggest giving them a call before actually booking a car . Their contact details can be found on <URL> . If they wind up not working out I would suggest scanning local companies on a website such as <URL> . Keep in mind that if you have a license from a different country with an earlier issue date or none at all it 's perfectly legal to show that instead .
It almost certainly depends on the ticket , but unless it 's a fully flexible ticket , I doubt you can do this cheaply , or possibly at all . The ticket is most likely a ticket from Tokyo to Rio ; the airline treats the connection as incidental . In fact , in practice they could even send you a different route ( not via LA ) if it made sense to do so on the day ( weather etc. ) . In most cases you are n't allowed to break your journey up , therefore , as that would be a different trip . The only way you 'll know for sure is to call the airline and ask , but if your tickets are non-refundable , prepare to spend a lot of money to make this change .
I will only be in London for 2 days and plan to take the tube no more than 2 or 3 times , so it does n't make much sense to buy an oystercard . You can buy single journey paper tickets for the tube , but they strongly discourage it through pricing . I just looked up a zone 1 tube fare and it was # 2.40 on oyster but # 4.90 on a paper ticket . At those prices even if you do n't get your card deposit back ( or you get the visitor card with it 's non-refundable charge ) it does n't take very many journeys for oyster to beat paper tickets . Another option is to use a contactless credit/debit card but if you have a non-UK card beware of foreign transaction fees . Also note that while you can use paper single tickets on the tube you ca n't use them on busses in london . Your only options there are oyster , contactless and travelcards . ( I read there is an activation cost and you wo n't get a full refund if you use it for such a short time ) . There are two types of oyster card . Regular cards and visitor cards . Regular cards have a # 5 refundable deposit , visitor cards have a # 3 non-refundable " activation fee " . The visitor card can only be obtained outside london . Regular cards can be obtained at any tube station . The visitor card comes with a few special offers for london attactions that the regular card does n't but otherwise the cards are much the same . AIUI with cash at a machine you can top up any ammount down to the smallest coins the machine will take while if you pay by card at a machine or pay at a ticket office the minimum top-up is # 5 . Getting the deposit and remaining credit refunded used to require dealing with a manned ticket office but it seems it 's now possible to do it at a ticket machine .
To add to @mouviciel 's answer , yes , Morocco and Iran do have an embassy presence in each others countries but here 's the catch : you can only apply for a Moroccan visa in a country you are n't a citizen of only if you 're a resident of that country . So in this case , your Iranian friend would need to be resident in Georgia to be able to apply for a visa in the embassy there ; otherwise , he needs to apply for a Moroccan visa back in Iran . I found this out when doing research for <URL> .
<URL> lists two motorcycle rental locations in Myanmar together with a location map , although I 'm not sure if it 's accurate . <URL> offers scooters starting from approximately <URL> . <URL> offers scooters starting from approximately <URL> . A three year old <URL> on lonely planet claims that hiring motorcycles is illegal for tourists in Myanmar as does <URL> on Trip advisor . <URL> provides useful information on motorcycling in Myanmar and mentions that using motorbikes is only illegal in some areas : If you are after the freedom of the road , many parts of Myanmar are best explored by motorbike . Self drive car hire is not possible , so motorbikes offer you the chance to take long-distance trips on your own schedule , and allow you access to remote parts of Myanmar that often have rough roads . In most parts of the country motorbikes are simple and cheap to hire , usually costing around K10 ,000 per day . Most large - and medium-sized towns ( and all major tourist spots , other than Bagan ) offer motorbike hire ; it is usually simplest to ask at your hotel or guest house . Using motorbikes in Yangon is illegal ( some locals are granted a special permit ) . Using motorbikes in Bagan is not permitted for foreigners ( but e-bikes and bicycles are allowed ) . You might be advised to check into the legal situation and cofirm whether or not you will be insured in such a case .
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
The one and only country-wide official source is the <URL> , the Brazilian 's government official body for road transportation . Apparently its an unfriendly website to get to grips with . This blog entitled " <URL> " provides additional resources for the ANTT ( inc. a step by step guide to using the ANTT site ) &amp; other sites relating to bus travel within Brazil :
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
Usually , depending on the country , an embassy or consulate is where you 'd go to , in order to obtain a visa . In your case , the nearest ( that I can find ) is the <URL> . 1233 West Loop South , Park Tower North , Suite 1150 Houston , TX 77027 (713) 961-3063 / 64/65 Fax : (713) 961-3070 E-mail : consbras@brazilhouston.org So they 'd be your most likely best bet for first point of call . For a rough idea of the documentation you 'll need to apply for your visa , have a look at the <URL> - they have a solid wall of information which will be of great use . If you 're really worried about the process , your travel agent would be able to help out with the whole thing . If you do n't have a travel agent , do n't worry , really , many of us apply for visas all the time , and while the wall of documents required sounds scary , as long as you follow the steps it 's actually pretty straightforward . Note that according to the Miami website , it can take 10-45 days to process depending on the method taken , so given you are travelling in March , I 'd get the ball moving on the whole process pretty soon .
As @Dirty - flow said , sleeping in the car is allowed , but you should not sleep in the driver 's seat etc. if you are drunk , to omit being fined for drunk driving . There are many areas , especially inside of the " Mittlerer Ring " , where parking is restricted ( residents only or parking ticket , see <URL> or <URL> ) . I 'd suggest to park somewhere in the outskirts , near a <URL> station , and use public transport . <URL> , for example , has a nice lake you can swim in ( " Erholungsgebiet Heimstettener See " ) . Update : Sleeping in a caravan in the city of Munich is forbidden : <URL> ( They <URL> parking at the Messe in Riem , 35 Eur per night . ) Feldkirchen should be OK . Also note : You need a <URL> for your car ( " Umweltplakette " ) if you want to drive inside of " Mittlerer Ring " .
Generally , the most popular tourist destination for beaches are located on East and South coast of Korea . With some minor exceptions , I 'd avoid West coast in general because most of their beaches look like this : I know one of your primary concerns is proximity of the destination via public transportation , but what you must know is that Korea has one of the finest public transportation system in the world . Given its system and the size of the country , you could almost reach anywhere in Korea within 3 hours . My recommendations are Haeundae Beach in Busan ] or Gyungpodae Beach in Gangneung . Both locations have clean , swimmable water with lots of infrastructures available . It takes approximately two hours from Seoul to Busan via KTX + maybe an hour to take the bus in between to get to the station and to the beach , you could easily set yourself a foot on Haeundae within three hours . To Gyongpodae Beach in Gangneung , you 'd have to take a bus in Express Bus Terminal . It takes about 2 hours and 30 minutes by bus + 30 minutes to get to the beach . Some of the answers here mentioned Eurwangni . If proximity is an absolute must to you ... you COULD try Eurwangni I guess , but you 'll probably be disappointed . If situation allows , I really recommend you take a day or two to visit Busan or Gangneung . Aside from swimming , there are tons of other activities you can do .
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
There are a reasonable number of car hire places which specialise in this kind of thing : essentially they rent you a car with track day insurance , and access to a track . Much like the " bring your own car " track days , but they provide the car too . <URL> ( UK site but covers other tracks in Europe ) <URL> Prices vary from around $ 200 to $ 8,000 + depending on the car you wish to hire and circuit Donington Park is about the cheapest circuit I know of . Circuits that host/have historically hosted Formula 1 events ( Spa/Monza/Silverstone etc ) tend to be more expensive , along with the Nurburgring and Le Mans . The Nurburgring is fairly cheap itself , but car hire there tends to be quite expensive .
Bit late to the party , but for the benefit of future readers : I am Canadian , and I have rented a car in several US states and Germany using an Alberta class 5 license . The process involved exactly zero questions or even a raised eyebrow . An international permit / translation was not required , they speak the same language down there ( well , reasonably the same . They ca n't spell ) . However , your boyfriend will remain a passenger - learner 's permits wo n't be accepted by any rental company .
In terms of getting a new passport , <URL> . You can renew or replace your passport at any time . It costs # 72.50 by post or # 81.25 through the Post Office 's Passport Check &amp; Send service . Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one - up to a maximum of 9 months .
Yes it is . You can make reservations for domestic trains and for trains to Montenegro via e-mail or telephone . You find the contact details on the <URL> .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
end question
start question
Do I need a visa to travel from Basel EuroAirport ?
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
My experience with Vietnam was that it really did n't matter - there are literally hundreds of travel agencies and many of them share the same tour operators . You get picked up at the travel agency you booked at and the bus continues on to 5-10 other places to pick up everyone else . The only thing you really need consider is the price ( which should n't vary by much anyway ) . If you 're really concerned about getting ripped off ( unlikely ) , I would wait until you arrive , and just ask some recently returned travelers who they booked with and whether they would recommend them . You may even get a ( small ) discount if you say you were referred by someone else . For Ha Long Bay , most tour operators will recommend a 1-2 night tour , with one night on Cat Ba Island and one on a Vietnamese junk ( tourist boat ) . For what it 's worth , I thoroughly enjoyed both . Be warned that a junk recently sank during the night killing a few tourists , so be a bit more wary of spending a night on one . Similarly with Sapa , tour operators will recommend you do some trekking with/to meet the local Hmong tribes , this I would also thoroughly recommend . Do n't forget to bring some decent hiking boots ( or buy them in Hanoi ) as it 's always muddy . After the hike you can get your boots cleaned and dried in 20 minutes for about a dollar . I have no idea how they do it . Tours are very easy to organise from Hanoi but keep in mind if you 're going far afield it can take a very long time due to the condition of the roads and the fact that speeds are limited due to motorbikes/pigs/chickens / people sharing them with you . This should n't be a concern with what you 're interested in , but something to keep in mind if plans change .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
It depends . If your ticket comes with a seat reservation ( <URL> ) then you do not need to stamp your ticket : just board the train . Shorter range tickets with no seat reservation , on the other hand , must be stamped . Your ticket probably reads <URL> somewhere at the top . Trenitalia personnel typically does n't cut tourists much slack and if " busted " you will be forced to buy a ticket on board with a surcharge . I 've seen plenty of tourists fall for this on the Milan-Bergamo line and it saddens me . If this happens , keep in mind that you 're not being fined . The ticket you bought is still valid ; you 're just buying a new one . You can use that ticket for your return trip ( just make sure you do stamp it next time ! ) Also , try and be honest and avoid getting into arguments . Ticket checkers have no qualms with waking people up and locking yourself up in the bathroom does not really work ( it 's no excuse for not slipping the ticket below the door ) . They can also actually fine you for quite a lot more money than just buying a new ticket with the surcharge ( although I 've never witnessed things degenerate to this level ) , followed by forcing you to step off the train wherever it stops next . Yeah , not fun . When in doubt , stamp the ticket . If it 's a paper ticket , use <URL> typically found at the station entrance ( by ticket sales ) or at the lower end of the stairways up to the tracks . If it 's a magnetic ticket ( ? ) then use the blue machines instead . If all the stamping machines should be broken , or if you just did n't have the time to stamp your ticket , or if you are iffy about the quality of the stamping ( maybe it did n't print very well ? ) what Trenitalia and Trenord personnel have told me to do is to board the train at the head and tell the ticket collector when ( if ) he comes . He should sign off the ticket with no surcharge . I do n't know if this is something official or just an informal convention , but I know it 's worked for me in the past .
There is a <URL> going up to Niesen Mountain . As the Wikipedia article says , it is one of the longest cable-cars in Europe . An overview about the prices is available on the <URL> . You should look for the station at the top of the mountain which is called Nielsen Kulm . The price is around 53 CHF for a return ticket if you do n't have any reduction price plans . The funiculair starts at Mülenen which is rechable by public transport from Basel . Checkout the official <URL> , and you will see that you can get there in 1h46 , changing the train once in Berne , for a total of 112 CHF ( retour ticket ) . So in total you will have to pay around 165 CHF for the whole trip . Keep in mind that there is the so called <URL> in Switzerland that costs 150 CHF and allows you to use all the trains and a lot of cable-cars for half of the price for a whole year . So if you plan to do more such trips , it can be worth to invest in such an card . In this particular case you would already save 82.50 CHF . So if you think you 're going to spend another 135 CHF for train tickets in the next 365 days , I would recommend to buy a Halbtax Abo .
Spain is a Schengen treaty country , so you will need a Schengen visa : Holders of a Vietnamese passport require a visa for the " Schengen States " . <URL> The cost for all temporary visas is 60 EUR , and you also need insurance and a lot of documentation . If your summer school regularly takes in foreign visitors , they should already know what visa you need and how to apply for it , so talk to them first .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
No , you do not need an ESTA . In this context , " transit " means travelling from country A to country B with a stop in the USA on the way . You are already in the USA and are not intending to enter or leave , so your flight is a domestic flight . The ESTA and VWP rules do not apply . As a domestic flight passenger , you will not encounter US Customs and Border Protection officers . You will still have to pass through airport security ( TSA ) , but that applies to all flights and they do not deal with visa issues at all .
The proposed change does n't affect you or your wife , and she wo n't need a visa . The <URL> allows citizens of certain countries to visit the US without getting a visa or any other form of authorization . It is n't what your wife has been using ; she can enter the US any time , because she already has a different form of authorization : a green card , which avoids any need for a visa . The VWP is unrelated to permanent residency , and I have n't heard of any proposed changes to the permanent resident program . Anyway , Iran is not one of the countries included in the VWP , which is another reason why your wife has n't been using it up until now , and why any changes to it would n't affect her .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
The general answer is yes , you will have a train at this time . However , the exact answer depends a little bit on the concrete date . During weekdays the last bus leaves the airport at 23:52 . Then you have 7 minutes to change from the bus to the train at Basel 's station . And your train will be at the main station in Zurich at 01:24 . On weekends the last bus leaves the airport at 24:00 . Then you also have to change at the station in Basel and you 're in Zurich around 01:58 . If that is too early for you , you can also wait for the first bus which leaves around 05:10 . Obviously the answer to this question also depends a little bit on where exactly you want to go in Zurich . The trains are all for Zurich main station . If you have to travel on from there , chances are high that there are no connecting trains during weekdays . On the other hand , during weekends ( Friday / Saturday nights ) , there is a 24h public transport service in whole Zurich . ( Be aware that this trains and buses , called Nachtnetz in German , cost additionally 5 francs ) . To check the schedule by yourself , <URL> I included a screenshot of a query for today , around 21:00 . You can also see the details of the last train at the bottom :
Although I agree 35L can be enough if you only intend to carry two changes of clothes and some small gear , I 'm not sure you 'll be comfortable enough having most of your things hanging outside your backpack ( and this will be the case for at least your tent , your sleeping mat - either on top or bottom of your bag - , and maybe your stove and tins . Even your shoes , if it 's summer ) . You can put your camera , your first aid kit ( bring one ! ) and your clothes inside . You 'll still be fine with a 35L , but if you are also bringing food and water you might consider a 50L . It really depends on what sort of trip you are planning , what places you want to visit and what 's available around those . You 'll still have to carry whatever you chose to bring , but backpacks do n't have much weight by themselves so a bigger one is not that costly .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
Nepalese citizens require a visa to visit the UK . Having a residence permit from another EU/EEC country does not free you from any UK visitor visa requirements . A residence permit from an EU/EEC country may free you from transit visa requirements . I would however assume that a EU residence permit will ease the application process and make it more probable that your application will be granted .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
end question
start question
Is there a nonstop flight from the west coast of North America to anywhere in India ?
The earlier accepted answer by JonathanReez was written in 2014 . From December 2015 , <URL> .
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
You 're a little off , but if you Google for ETOPS you 'll find the details on what you 're referring to . In short , twin-engine planes ( eg , 737 , 767 , 777 , A320 , A330 , etc ) were originally required to remain at all times within 60 minutes of a suitable airport where they could land . This was done so that in the event of an engine failure they could land as soon as possible so as to significantly reduce the chances of the second engine failing . Quad-engine planes ( 747 , A340 ) did not have any similar restrictions due to their ability to lose at least 2 engines and still remain flying . As engine reliability improved , and as the twin-engine planes started to prove their reliability , the FAA ( and other similar organizations around the world ) brought in a classification called " Extended Twin Operations " , or ETOPS , which allowed for certain approved aircraft , being flown by approved airlines , to fly further distances from an airport . There are a number of different ETOPS ratings , such as ETOPS-120 ( 120 minutes from an airport ) , ETOPS-180 , ETOPS-207 ( 180 +15 % ) , and now even ETOPS-330 which allows certain Boeing 777 's to be up to 5 1/2 hours from their nearest airport ! Airlines without ETOPS ratings will sometimes need to take alternate routes in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport . eg , when Virgin Australia ( Virgin Blue at the time ) started flying Sydney-Perth they had to take a much more northern route in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport , where rival Qantas could take a more southerly/shorter route as their planes were ETOPS rated . ( For a good story on what can happen when both engines on a twin-jet fail , Google for details of the " gimli glider " )
TL ; DR : If you have < $ 1000 - < $ 2000 worth of money , use a travel card ( you can easily get one from Axis Bank ) otherwise use a wire transfer for either your Bank Account or from a Forex Service . I happen to have a BoA account as well , so I do this quite often . In India , in order to transfer money to the US , you have three options , Use your local bank in which you have an account with all that money in it . If you have most of your money in cash , then your best bet is to deposit this in an account because that 's what they will need in order to wire transfer to BoA . This would ideally be the easiest way if your money is already in a bank account . Axis Bank is one of the better bank which you could do this with , because they provide a lot of forex services such as travel cards and all as well . Use remittance services with a leading foreign exchange service such as <URL> . They might be willing to take cash as well but they might require you to write them a check from a bank account . If you absolutely want to use cash , I think a PAN Card would be required in order to make sure that the cash can be associated to your account for taxation purposes . Get a free <URL> or any other service and load that with all your money in it and make a withdrawal using any ATM in the US and deposit all the money in your BoA account using the Travel Card . Now , let 's talk about the costs , Unforunately this depends more on your negotiation skills that anything else , for a small amount i.e < $ 1000 , carrying in your Travel Card would be a better option , otherwise , using one of the two services I mentioned is better . Now , I have gotten better rates from the bank as well as 3rd party dealers with respect to Forex Bank Transfers but typically for larger amounts i.e > $ 10000 you are looking at an additional rate of about 0.3 - 0.5 % . For the travel card , the rate is usually 1 % is the norm . Note : BoA will charge you about $ 12 for an incoming wire transfer whereas the banks I mentioned might charge you a flat fee of about $ 10 or Rs . 500 for both travel cards and wire transfers . As you might expect , these depend on the Bank/Forex Service . If you carry the travel card and you withdraw money from the card , a fee of $ 2 is usually charged by the withdrawing ATM ( in this case a BoA ATM ) and of course to deposit the money into your account , ( maximum of $ 800 per transaction in both cases i.e if you have more , then you need to withdraw and deposit multiple times ) . Lastly , what documentation do you require , Simple , all you need is the Swift Code <URL> of the bank and the Bank Account ( either Checking or Saving , any one is OK ) number you wish to transfer to and although not required , but the branch of the bank will be additional information which wo n't hurt . Basically any information which is required to uniquely identify the transaction to your unique account . To add , I would be highly surprised if you carried a major amount of money outside India in INR . This is not allowed as per the FEMA act and is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , Residents are free to take outside India ( other than to Nepal and Bhutan ) currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs . 10,000 - per person . More information about the same has also been discussed earlier on this website , check this question , <URL> In case you did though , there is not much you can do with it , because it is ultimately illegal and if you turn up with that sum of money in Indian Rupees anywhere outside India , you will turn heads and you risk confiscation of that money .
The usual Aussie website for comparing flight prices is <URL> , but in my experience they do n't list everything . Also they charge a booking fee so use it to find a flight but you might get a better price on the same flight elsewhere once you have the details .
According to <URL> and <URL> , the most closer railroad station is Alpiglen : . According sattelite map , you 'll get beautiful view from there . Not sure where are you getting from to the Eiger , so you can <URL> . If you have more specific information , please provide it . Update : <URL> , route and prices are ( used local time just for example ) : 30.06.11 Stainach-Irdning 09:37 - Bischofshofen 10:48 - from <URL> without VORTEILScard 30.06.11 Bischofshofen 11:08 - Mannheim Hbf 16:56 - from <URL> without VORTEAILScard 30.06.11 Mannheim Hbf 17:36 - Interlaken Ost 21:56 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , but by <URL> - from <URL> 01.07.11 Interlaken Ost 06:04 - Grindelwald 06:38 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , but by <URL> - from <URL> 01.07.11 Grindelwald 07:17 - Alpiglen 07:38 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , and by <URL> there is a bug with no founded station , but I think it is not very expensive Also you can see [ this question ] [ 11 ] to get some more sites to search prices and trains .
I figured Wikipedia has nice tables of all lines ( regional , national , international ) serving each of the major Paris stations . It does not render as nice as a map but they are all there : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
There is ! But there are n't any signs to tell you ... As explained on the <URL> , the SkyBus ticket office at the airport sells the <URL> . That costs $ 14 , and comes with $ 8 credit ( plus a few other bits ) . There are no signs at the SkyBus ticket office about myki , it is n't listed on any of the prices shown , but if you queue up and ask they 'll get one out of a secret drawer and sell one to you ! Once you 've bought your myki , it 's a moderately well signposted 1 minute walk to where the 901 bus goes from - follow the signs for Public Buses . Alternately , there are in theory some regular myki topup and purchase machines in <URL> , but they 're not well signed and rather hidden . You 're looking for a silver/grey machine with a blue sign on the top . I could n't find the T2 one , the T3 one is on the far left as you go to leave the baggage claim area by the toilets . For topping up a myki it may be worth hunting , though do n't forget you can also top up on the bus ! For visitors , heading to the SkyBus ticket office to buy one is likely to be much quicker and easier
It is available in India , and in Delhi in the North , but the supply may not be reliable . As the US <URL> notes : India has the highest burden of rabies in the world , with estimates of 15,000 -- 20,000 human cases per year . Dogs roam in packs in many areas of the country . Unfortunately , human rabies immune globulin is not readily available , except in some clinics in major cities . Information about such clinics can be obtained from the website of the <URL> . Otherwise , if a traveler has not received preexposure rabies vaccination , a bite may result in having to leave the country for postexposure prophylaxis . Even so , a preexposure series is not recommended for all travelers to India . Cost is a consideration for many . Long-term travelers , expatriates , missionaries , and volunteers may want to obtain preexposure immunization for themselves and their children . Travelers may want to purchase a medical evacuation insurance policy that will cover travel for recommended rabies postexposure prophylaxis .
Driving from Liverpool into North Wales is a pretty poor choice , as you end up paying the toll in the Mersey Tunnel , then driving most of the way to Chester to cross the Dee , so you 're adding a lot of miles to your drive for no particular benefit . Chester is a reasonable choice , but you 're going to do a lot of miles on the A55 across North Wales before you get to any of the places that you 're interested in getting to . Given UK fuel prices , that 's adding cost without any good reason . I would suggest Llandudno . Google Maps has eleven car rental locations in Llandudno , which should be enough competition to keep prices sensible , and there are <URL> ( taking three hours ) every day from London Euston . Llandudno Junction Station is three miles from the centre of Llandudno , but there are two car-hire places - an Avis and an Enterprise - directly outside the station . Make sure you book for the ( small ) town of Llandudno Junction rather than the ( larger ) town of Llandudno
If you want to experience perpetual summer , starting in Paris in October and then going to eastern Europe is not the best of ideas . And , depending on where in Turkey you plan to go , winters can get quite cold . Parts of Ethiopia have perpetual cold nights , any time of the year . Northern Iran can be very cold in winter . Furthermore , based on your description , you seem to plan on getting to South America in the middle of the year , which is the southern hemisphere 's winter . South American winter ai n't comparable to , say , central Asia 's , but particularly the south ( of South America ) can get very cold . And plenty of the beach resorts on the continent 's west coast wo n't be open for swimming . If , on the other hand , your only option is to go to the US from Paris , you 'd head into North American winter , which can also be pretty harsh . So , if you are flexible in your journey , but not in your dates , and assuming you will be traveling for about a year , I 'd say your best bet would be something like ... Paris - South America - North America ( at the start of spring ) - Asia - Middle East ( at the start of autumn ) - Europe .
I would recommend <URL> . They have very good travel plans for Northern Areas of Pakistan . You will have to reach Islamabad/Rawalpindi first . The best way to do that is to reach Quetta which is a border city adjacent to Iran . Then take a flight from Quetta to Islamabad . Road journey form Quetta to Islamabad may well take over 30 hours because of not-so-good road conditions and the distance . However , the flight will be around 2 hours . Hope you enjoy your visit to Pakistan .
From what I have heard/read , people always seem to say that Fall , such as September and onwards , is the best time to cruise ( particularly for the Caribbean ) for the following reasons : School has started , so there are less family vacations and college kids looking for cruises . The worry of hurricanes puts some people off . Lack of vacations after Labor Day and before Thanksgiving . I do n't have any hard data to back that up though . Keep in mind some places , like cruises to Alaska , are only around during certain times of the year so there 's no ' time of year ' for them to be cheaper than others . And finally , the cheapest deals I can usually find are from last minute cruise deals , but you have to be ready to go within a week or two . Those are typically much cheaper because the cruise ship wants to fill up their vacant spots .
Route-by-route load factors are proprietary information which airlines guard zealously -- why inform your competitors about where you 're making your money and where there 's slack in the system ? Indeed , in 2004 , now-defunct JetsGo sued WestJet accusing the latter of <URL> , and of using that information to " gain an unfair competitive advantage over Jetsgo and prey upon Jetsgo 's business and operations by targeting both profitable and vulnerable routes , flight times and fares . " The best we can do is make guesses on flight-by-flight load factors based on things like available fares . After all , a flight that has plenty of T fares at 21 days out probably is n't that full . Some airlines , like United , offer an " <URL> " interface where you can see available booking classes . You could alternatively subscribe to a service like <URL> , which has the same information for multiple airlines . I would caution that seat maps are notoriously unreliable guides , as not everyone selects a seat prior to the day of departure . The seat map may be wide open , but that 's because it does n't include the tour group of 24 scheduled to be on that flight . I would add that steady capacity reductions over the last 5-10 years , enabled by airline mergers and forced by high fuel prices , mean that most flights on network carriers will be very full . As recently as 2005 , United would a block middle seat as an unpublished perk for Premier Executives , but I ca n't tell you the last flight I 've been on where the middle seat has been empty , even in Economy Plus .
I 'm sure there is another one nearer to your destination , but at least in <URL> , there is a sign for sure . I pictured it personally last summer . <URL> I found a German page that has picture the same road sign as I did :
From <URL> ( same article as <URL> ) : <URL> - <URL> ( <URL> ) flight number : LOG 313 , 2.7 km ( 1.7 miles ) 02 min , aircraft : <URL> , first flight - 3 February 2004 It is obvious from that list that the best option is try searching near the islands . Second place is for the <URL> ( from St. Kitts to Nevis ) . Update : <URL> ( with video ) ! Update by Rory Alsop : Flight by my father , Capt. Andy Alsop <URL> , and then reduced by him to 58 seconds ! Screenshot of the page linked above ( from <URL> ) , as it may not be viewable to everyone : You can fly this on a <URL>
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
[ So tempted to answer this with , " let me know when and I 'll pick you up , " but that does n't answer the question for Googlers down the line , does it ? ] If you 're looking for public transportation in the greater San Francisco Bay area , the place to start is always <URL> . A little looking around there will lead you to the <URL> , where you can find <URL> . On that map , draw a vertical line down between Sonoma and St. Helena , and a horizontal line between Novato and Petaluma . The area from the top left corner down to where your two lines meet is Sonoma County . Looking at the maps and schedules , the direct bus routes are <URL> and <URL> , both of which leave San Francisco from : San Francisco ( Folsom &amp; 7th ) Main &amp; Folsom ( Temporary Transbay Terminal ) San Francisco ( Mission &amp; 1st ) SF Civic Center ( McAllister &amp; Polk ) The next thing you 'll have to figure out is where you want to go : the city of Sonoma , Sonoma Valley , or Sonoma County ? For the first two , you 'll have to get off ( probably in Petaluma ) and transfer to a local bus . Depending on what it is you want to do in Wine Country , I 'd recommend staying on all the way through Santa Rosa -- just north of there is where things really get beautiful , in my thoroughly biased opinion .
Why yes , there is ! And it 's well worth visiting ! The <URL> is located on the airport grounds , on the other side of the airport from the terminal . It 's a ~ 5 minute taxi ride away . You can see most of the highlights in an hour 's visit , alternately if you 're interested in aviation and want to watch the video pieces as well , you can easily spend over 2.5 hours there . Perfect for a layover ! The museum has a good collection of planes , from old to new , and the A320 " miracle on the Hudson " plane too . There 's quite a bit of history , information on how flying works , loads of info on the US airways flight , and friendly staff . When you 're done , they have a seating area outside where you can watch flights arriving and departing , as it 's very close to the active runways . It takes about 5 minutes in a taxi to get there from the terminal . There 's currently ( 2015 ) a flat rate $ 14 fare from the airport to the museum or back again . You can pick up a taxi outside arrivals , and to go back the museum staff will call a taxi for you . On arrival into CLT , head to the Charlotte Information desk in the arrivals baggage area , and ask about the museum . They should be able to give you a discount voucher , and point you in the direct of the taxi queue .
I do n't think there is any reason why you should n't start your visit in Venice and come to Milan later on . I suppose your explanation about flights is sound and reasonable , although there are plenty of flights to Venezia Tessera as well as to Verona airport . Normally , Milano is not considered worth visiting for more than one day , although there are monuments and museums here as well . If you can spare 10-15 days to visit Northern Italy , then you should be able to have at least a couple of days in Milan ( a bit on the expensive side as far as hotels are concerned ... ) , at least 4 in Verona if you plan to visit Lake Garda as well , then the rest for Venezia , but you should n't miss Padua and the Brenta Riviera with the various Palladio villas , Treviso and perhaps Asolo or Bassano del Grappa . " Acqua alta " may be a problem , but it is not all that frequent in early November , and quite often the weather is still pleasant . Enjoy your visit , whichever direction you will travel .
end question
start question
What happens if police stops me when driving a rental car and I 'm not the authorized driver ?
You could possibly be charged with driving a vehicle without the owners consent , but more importantly if you are not a valid driver then you are driving without insurance . Driving without insurance is illegal in Florida . You should also be aware that the insurance you do n't have does n't just protect you against damaging the car . In the US , if you seriously injure someone in an accident they can and will come after you for their medical bills , which can run to hundreds of thousands of dollars . This is what your insurance covers you against ( amongst other things ) . Unless you can afford to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars , do n't drive without insurance . Further reading : <URL> <URL>
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
Making calls or texting on a handheld phone while driving is illegal and unsafe basically everywhere , and you 're entirely within your rights to tell them to stop and , if they do n't , complain to the taxi authorities or even the police . If they 're using a hands-free device though , and vast majority of cabbies are , you 're likely out of luck . This is ( usually ) legal , and dealing with bookings is a critical part of their livelihood : you 're already in the cab , they 're trying to find their next fare Of course , you can always request they stop , and ask to be dropped off right then and there if they do n't . But if you 're in enough of a hurry that you 're in a taxi in the first place , this may not be a realistic alternative .
In practice , here is what you can do : Contact a consulate from your own country to get some travel document ( probably an emergency passport ) . Being in a foreign country without one is a perfectly valid reason for that ( even within Schengen ) . It will probably cost you some money and a bit of effort but it has worked for me before . Try your luck with the airline . Some of them like Ryanair are notorious for being picky about that but on some intra-Schengen flights you do n't have to show any ID . Even when an ID is in principle required and driver 's licenses are explicitly excluded , it 's possible to get lucky . This also worked for me before ( see below ) . Cancel your flight and travel back by train . There could still be a border check but it 's unlikely . Worse case scenario : You do get checked and the police/customs keep you for some time . You would still be better off than at the airport because you would already be in your country of residence and they should have means to verify your story . I have done that too , did see some border police officers but I was lucky enough not to be asked anything so I do n't know exactly what they would have done . On one occasion , I have been allowed to fly back home without passport/national ID but only a driver 's license and a few other things like an health insurance card . On their own , these documents prove nothing but they were helpful to convince the gate personnel that I was a resident of the destination country . They were very understanding and let me board the flight , stressing that they only did it because it was a Schengen flight . In summary : I would definitely contact the nearest consulate as soon as possible and consider changing plans but if that 's not possible , do try to board your return flight . Be upfront and honest , you could get lucky .
Generally speaking , " yes " . A BA aircraft is registered in the UK and therefore is covered by the UK laws . Under the UK law it 's an offence not to obey the order of the flight crew while on the aircraft . Specifically , this is covered by the <URL> : A person must not while in an aircraft ... ( c ) intentionally interfere with the performance by a member of the crew of the aircraft of the crew member 's duties . As you can imagine , flight attendants ' duties include a lot of walking up and down the aisle , including rolling the trolley with food/drinks . If you are standing in the aisle you would be interfering with their duties . Additionally , they are tasked with ensuring the safety of passengers while in flight . If the " fasten seatbelts " sign comes on , it is their responsibility to ensure that all passengers are seated with seat belt fastened , therefore if you do not perform this , you are , in essence , intentionally interfering with the performance by a member of the crew . With the legal technicalities out of the way ... The air crew are also people and are very understanding ( usually ) of others ' needs . You should speak with them before the flight commences and explain the situation . Most likely they would allow you to stand to perform your prayer in the galley at the rear of the plane . Yet if the " fasten seat belt " sign is switched on , you will have to return to your seat and sit down - this will be mandatory .
Are you after the physical answer , or the legal one ? Presuming he still physically has his license , and it has an expiry date beyond when he will be renting the car , then he will most likely be able to physically rent a car . If he is pulled over by the police , then he will most likely be able to lie and claim that his license is valid , and he will probably get away with it . However doing that will be illegal on many levels . Firstly , when renting a car , part of the rental agreement is that you have a valid drivers license and are legally allowed to drive in the country you 'll be driving in . As his license has been suspended he will NOT have a valid license , and will NOT be legally allowed to drive in the US . Thus by renting the car he will be committing fraud . Next , by actually driving , he will be driving without a license . Most countries ( including the US ) allow you to drive based on having a valid license in your home country . He does not , thus he will be driving illegally . When driving without a license , any insurance coverage he has ( including the rental car companies ( self - ) insurance , travel insurance , etc ) will be invalidated . He will be fully responsible financially for any accidents he causes , and very probably even if he is n't at fault . If he is involved in an accident you can all but guarantee that they will check on the validity of his home-country license , and not just take it for granted that it 's valid . If he is pulled over by a police officer it 's unlikely they will be able to tell that his overseas license is suspended , but if they can then he will definitely be charged , which will not only come with a hefty fine , but will leave him in a very unfortunate position as far as returning his rental car is concerned as they will not let him drive it to return it to the rental company . So can he rent a car ? Yes . Will he get away with it ? Probably . Will he be breaking countless laws and potentially risking prison time ? YES ! ( Driving without a license in California can lead to up to 6 months prison , I 'm presuming other states are similar )
Having a car in Berlin is more hassle than a convenience , just because of the parking situation , and the money you spend on parking meters . Driving in Berlin is also not exactly fun with the traffic congestion , or much faster than the bus or subway either . Leave your car at home , save the money and then decide after 3 months if you really need a car in berlin .
Unfortunately , this is almost impossible . They normally accept it for the reservation , but you are required to provide a credit card in order to actually get the car . But there 's more . The credit card must belong to the same person that made the reservation . I 've checked the terms of the most common rental services such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , and they all clearly highlight the same requirement . The only advices I can provide you are : depending on where you land , try to see if there is a local car rental service . They normally have lower requirements try to contact one of those services and explain them the issue . They may help you .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
What you are asking is hard . The insurance prices go considerably up for drivers younger than 24 , and for new drivers . From looking online it seems that the big rental companies will not rent out cars to people younger than 24 or who have had a driver 's license for less than 2 years . I was able to find at least 3 smaller companies who will rent cars to new ( and young ) drivers for a higher rate . <URL> <URL> <URL> I have seen that there are other companies which rent to new drivers , discussed in various forums , you should google for " השכרת רכב לנהג חדש " ( car rental for a new driver ) and " השכרת רכב לנהג צעיר " ( car rental for a young driver ) . Knowing Hebrew would come a long way to help you read the forum posts , or you could try and rely on Google Translate .
In Switzerland it will depend if it 's an illegal article or if you fail to pay duty . In the first case ( if it 's mildly illegal , usually counterfeit watches , I 'm not talking guns or anything ) they 'll just seize it and <URL> it , no fine involved . There is a slight chance that the copyright owner might <URL> , but I think the chances are you 'll just lose the product but be fine . I guess the same will happen if you take some seeds or some meat from outside the EU or something else that 's prohibited . If you fail to declare something that you have to pay duty on however , you 're likely to have to pay a fine on top of the duty fee . That happens quite often to people <URL> on the other side of the border .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
I was in a similar situation before , I found out that drivers are on minimum wage and do not stick to office hours . Their employers usually summon them whenever they wish . So they will welcome tips and it might be a real help for them actually . The employer was a friend/colleague , and I noticed that she tipped him , he buys the stuff with his own money ( coffee or something ) then when she pays him back she gives a little more ( 10 or 20 pesos ) . When I was with the driver alone ( twice ) running my private errands , I tipped him at the end of the day , once 100 pesos and the second time it was 200 pesos because it was a few errands with many stops , he carried stuff for me as well , I did n't ask him but he insisted . The last day he just took me to the airport , I gave him a 10 USD bill as I was running out of pesos . I have n't asked a local about this specific situation at the time , but I know locals do tip drivers/waiters and I did that in my previous visits . I think my estimation was right because the guy seemed happy and helpful . You might not be obliged to do so , but it 's always a good idea to help people on minimum wages .
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
First , you did a good thing , there was no comeback , and so it 's all good . But I want to answer your more general question for other people in that situation , Many buffets have and explicit ' no leftovers no sharing ' policy , if they do n't make it explicit up front then they undoubtedly will if you start abusing the buffet . So while sneaking someone a few chicken wings ( or whatever ) may go unnoticed it becomes a slippery slope to feeding a ton of other people for free . And , if you 're caught , they will attempt to make you pay . If you get caught the best case is you pay for a buffet for an extra person , worst case -- if the buffet is included in the room rate -- you pay for an extra room . While I would have done what you did I would probably recommend other people to offer a little money to the towel boy , or offer to take him for breakfast somewhere else . The chances are the hotel knows about this and are OK with it , but it 's also possible that it 's a setup for a scam which is why it might be better to offer something else . But you should never feel unable to say no if it 's something you 're not comfortable with . I do n't want to sound boorish but it 's OK not to give if you do n't want to . I do n't imagine you 're the first person the boy has hit up for food , nor will you be the last . Similarly I 'd wager that he 's pretty used to being refused and it 's not going to affect him . Sure it might make you feel bad , but then I suspect that 's the point . You could try and address the larger problem ( that the hotel employees ? or hangers-on do n't make enough ) either via the hotel website or other review sites . But that 's not really what you asked . In short , if you want to help , offer some help in some other way , because sliding stuff off the buffet has potential to get you in a heap of trouble . But , if you do n't want to help , do n't be afraid to say no .
Most reputable car hire companies will let you pick up from the airport , although I 'm not exactly sure where the pickup point is as I live in Sydney and have never needed to do this . It is absolutely unnecessary to head into the city center from the airport , so just forget about that . From the airport you 're pretty much heading in the opposite direction from the traffic flow to the city if you are heading west towards Orange , so the likely ( not promising ) situation is light traffic . You 'll be traveling out west on the M5 whereas any morning traffic will be heading east towards the city . Just be careful not to miss the right hand turn onto the M5 , the light set up at the end of Marsh street is a bit dodgy , but once you 're on and into the tunnel just keeping heading along the M5 . Note this is also a toll road so make sure you have a handful of Aussie coins ( currently <URL> , $ 4.40 after then ) . So to answer your question , how far are you from open road ? About 5 minutes away . When I did a Google search it suggested going via Richmond , another option is to go via Katoomba . My uneducated guess is that via Katoomba is more direct , however I ca n't get Google maps to show me the calculations or the correct route for Katoomba . The problem with going through Bells line of Road ( via Richmond ) you are a little way from civilization so you may have the odd feeling of being lost every now and then whereas via Katoomba you are driving through towns and can always stop and ask directions .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
end question
start question
What would be an example of a currently possible overland route from Europe to Israel ?
Promoting comments to an answer ... Looking at the ever useful <URL> , there are three typical routes . One is via Turkey , Syria and Jordan . My understanding of the current situation in Syria is that this one is out . Next up is a direct ferry from Greece , but that is n't running currently . Finally there are suggestions that you can get a ferry from Cyprus on to Israel , I 'd suggest you try looking into that . If you wanted to get to Jordan avoiding Syria , then you 'd have to go through Iraq , which is n't any better ! I think you 'll have to consign yourself to not overlanding it via Turkey any time soon . Ferry in is your best bet . One other possible option is via Egypt . Friends in Egypt tell me that the situation in the country is much better now , however relations between Egypt and Israel are n't great ( to say the least ... ) . That 'd likely mean taking the <URL> and then onwards by land to the border ( and hope it 's open ) . Snag is , that ferry is reported to have issues at the moment too , as it normally stops in Syria on the way Looks like your only bet is the Cyprus ferry , assuming <URL> is telling the truth about it running at the moment ...
There are some great opportunities along you 're route . First of all I would go back to Girona or even Barcelona . Both are very interesting cities . From there you can go on to Andorra . In Andorra you ca n't do a lot of things , but hey your country-counter will increment by 1 . If you 're into mountains/hiking you can spend some time there . From Andorra I would go to Carcasonne . In Carcasonne you can visit the beautiful castle , the Canal du Midi or a old cathedral . The next stop I would make in Beziers which is also a beautiful city with an old cathedral . From there I would follow the cost line and stop in places like <URL> , Nimes , Montpellier or Marseille . Now it depends a little bit if you want to start in the south or east of Switzerland or in the west or Northern part . If you 're going the southern or eastern part I would follow the cost line a little bit more and visit Nice and Monaco.Then I would visit Turino or Milan and finally entering the beautiful southern part of Switzerland , <URL> . There are a lot of nice cities , like Lugano , Locarno or Bellinzona : But you will also find some interesting small villages in the mountains like for example <URL> . From Ticino you can cross the main part of the alps via the <URL> and then arrive in central Switzerland , for example Lucerne : If you want to start in the northern/western part of Switzerland i Would go from Marseille to <URL> and then from there to <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> to <URL> . I visited all the cities a mentioned here and I can really recommend it .
Basically the center is around the " <URL> " . On this square you will find the <URL> , <URL> and a <URL> . Plenty of pubs etc. can be found at the " <URL> " , just next to the Grote Markt . There are accommodations in that area or not far from there . If you arrive by train , you can also consider to stay next to the station . Thus you wo n't have to carry your luggage very far . The station is only a 10-15 minutes walk from the main watering holes . <URL> , you will see a yellow circle road . In a larger sense , everything inside this circle could be called the " center " . It is the historical city of Leuven . Crossing this circle by foot takes more or less 20-30 minutes .
Yiddish is only spoken in very specific neighborhoods by very specific people . Usually you would identify them by being rather old ( middle-aged + ) and very religious ( you can see by their clothing ) . You would probably encounter them in Jerusalem and Bnei Brak . Some younger members of the certain Ashkenazi religious communities speak Yiddish , as well as some older secular Israelis ( mostly of Soviet/Polish descent ) . General population wo n't know it , and wo n't understand you . Bottom line is that Yiddish would be much more useful in Germany than in Israel .
The hotel wo n't mind if you check in and not use any of their services ... less food eaten equals less cost to them . But while you may not want to officially check out as that might cancel the last night you plan to use , it might be good to let the front desk know you may not be sleeping there every night , so they do n't call the police when your room is empty for three nights in a row . But an all inclusive does n't mean you are stuck there , you could use the rooms every night and set out to explore by day ( at your own expense or maybe with one of their activities if it suits your interests ) . You can head out to eat or eat in , no real restrictions . Is it sensible ? Hard to say , without more details . Is the cost of the package deal ( air , lodging , transfers ) less than the cost of just airfare ? Are there other benefits of the package you want to enjoy that you ca n't get on their own ?
The invaluable Rome2Rio has a <URL> that is still 10 + hours , but does not backtrack to NYC . The first transfer point is Binghamton .
The historic principality of Jammu and Kashmir is split between the Pakistani Azad Kashmir ( ' free Kashmir ' ) and the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir . India and Pakistan have fought wars over the control of Kashmir and you can absolutely not cross the line of control which serves as the de facto border . Not only that , but as a foreigner you are are not even allowed to enter Azad Kashmir although with a little luck you can still do so . Pakistani-controlled Kashmir also suffered from a devastating earthquake in 2005 and even if you do manage to enter , be aware that it will not have completely recovered . Travel in Indian-controlled Kashmir is possible , if somewhat restricted due to violence between the Indian military and Kashmiris who do not wish to be part of India . Getting to either Kashmir from Europe is fairly straightforward and there are two obvious routes , the northern and the southern . Note that the ' middle ' Caucasus route is not viable due to war , closed borders and general instability in the north Caucasus . North : if you are in Russia , then you must travel to China via Mongolia or , preferably , Kazakhstan . China 's Xinjiang province borders Pakistan and the two are connected by the Karakorum highway . Parts of the Karakorum run parallel to the border of Azad Kashmir , so it is a convenient route if that is your destination . You can also follow the Karakorum to Islamabad and from there go to Lahore , which is next to the border crossing between Pakistan and India . South : starting in Turkey , travel through Iran to Zahedan and cross the border to Quetta in Pakistan . From there you can make the long journey to Lahore ( for India ) or Islamabad ( for Azad Kashmir ) . Getting into Azad Kashmir is possible if you avoid detection by the authorities at the internal border . There are minibuses which travel from the towns Mansehra and Murree to Muzaffarabad ( the capital of Azad Kashmir ) and if no one sees you at the checkpoint , you are in . Even so , hotels will immediately report the arrival of a foreigner to the police , so you should make good use of your time before they come to kick you out ! Many tourists in India visit Srinagar , the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir , so getting there is easy enough .
<URL> collects lots of information about the total solar eclipse of 2012 . It shows the path , an <URL> and cloud cover information . Currently only monthly averages are available , later you may find a better prediction . It is also a good idea to check the page of <URL> ( Fred Espenak ) , he 's a solar eclipse veteran . Going to the same place he goes is usually a good idea . After finding a suitable place you should also be ready to move to a different location if it 's necessary . Sometimes it 's just not possible to find the best place in advance .
Since I got an answer to my inquiry to eurail/interrail and it is too long to post in a comment I will put it here as an answer : Thank you for your email to Eurail.Com Customer Service . Yes , as a rail passenger , you are entitled to several rights according to the European Union Law . You can find more information on the page of the European Commission : <URL> You can also find the European Union regulations on : <URL> Since the Eurail Pass entitles you to use the train in Europe , you are of course protected by the EU law when you will be traveling with your Eurail Pass . I believe this boils down to the same regulations and rules that was stated in the original question , but I did not have time to go through it all to make sure . However I do find the links provided by the eurail/interrail customer service to be a lot easier to read than the actual regulation texts , which is why I have posted them here . Also note that the first link also has maritime and air travel rights information .
This actually depends on quite a few factors . I wondered this once many years ago , and asked around quite a bit . Did n't have Travel.SE back then ;) The earth is rotating at a rather fast speed - and any point on the earth is therefore actually ' moving ' ( it 's all relative ) . Since the points on the equator have further to travel , they 're moving even faster than at the poles . Now , of course , the air is dragged around WITH the earth , thankfully , otherwise the poor chaps on the equator would have wind speeds in the opposite direction of near the speed of sound ;) However , when you 're in a plane , consider that it can take nearly an hour longer to fly across the Atlantic in a westerly direction ( ' against ' the spin ) than ' with ' the spin . When you 're flying with the spin , and by relation , with the wind , you 're not flying ' into ' a force that 's going the other way , as you are when you fly against the spin . The earth is also dragging you with it - or rather , it 's dragging the atmosphere , and you in it . However , what you 'll tend to find is that it 's actually far more dependent in reality on the existence of jetstreams - where the air up there is moving faster than at ground level , and can boost the plane 's speed if going in the same direction . Of course , in the other direction you do well to avoid the jetstream , as it would slow you down . To put it in words more eloquent than my own , I 'll borrow a quote from <URL> , which first , you must consider yourself to be running ... Stop running . If you were to jump straight up in the air , would the Earth rotate beneath you ? ( Those who do believe that the Earth rotates around them may want to stop reading right now . ) No , because when you left the Earth 's surface , you were traveling at the same speed as the surface , so , in essence , the Earth matched your speed through space while you were in the air ! The same condition holds true for an airplane as it travels from Los Angeles to Bombay . If we were to ignore the winds , no matter which direction you flew from Los Angeles , the speed of the aircraft relative to the Earth would be the same . While the aircraft 's speed through space would change , the effect of the Earth 's rotation remains constant , and in effect is " cancelled out " no matter which direction you travel . In other words , the speed of the rotation of the Earth is already imparted to the aircraft , and the Earth matches that speed during the entire flight . ( Of course , in the case of spacecraft , these speeds become very important . ) So , the end result of that long discussion is that the rotation of the Earth has no effect on the travel time of an aircraft . Actually , it is the headwinds and tailwinds that cause the change in travel times . Sometimes it is hard to believe that the winds can have that much effect , so let us consider the problem a bit more in depth . In the example given , the flight from Bombay to California ( east ) is 23 % shorter than the trip from California to Bombay ( west ) . This means that the speed of the trip east must be 23 % faster . The prevailing winds pretty much anywhere that we are talking about blow from west to east , so when we are traveling east , we get a speed gain , and when we travel west , we get a speed penalty . Now , if we are to assume that the winds are identical on both days we fly , then the wind speed only needs to be equal to 11.5 % of the aircraft 's speed ! This would cause a difference between the speed to the west and speed to the east of 23 % ! The cruise speed of the extended range Boeing 777 is about 550 mph ( 885 km/h ) at 35,000 ft ( 10,675 m ) . This means that the winds only need a speed of about 65 mph ( 105 km/h ) ( good kite weather ) . Believe it or not , 65 mph is a very typical wind speed at such a high altitude . Speeds of over 100 mph ( 160 km/h ) are not uncommon . If we wanted to make things more complicated , we could consider a region of high speed flow called the jet stream that flows eastward , and if an aircraft can take advantage of these winds , then the travel time can be reduced further . Also note <URL> , which affect all this . So what is the bottom line ? The direction you travel in relation to the rotation of the Earth does not affect the travel time of an aircraft , and , more importantly , a mere 65 mph wind is more than enough to cause a difference in travel time of five hours when you are traveling long distances !
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
Yes - it does increase the risk of identity theft , however for most successful identity thefts , the attacker would need various other bits of information as well . The best way to think of it is that every piece of information about you an attacker has , the less effort he has to expend to impersonate you . Once an attacker can impersonate you they could steal your money ( this happens a lot with online banking ) , your house ( a handful of cases seen so far ) , your credit rating , your reputation , and generally cause you major problems . General recommendation is to not place anything in Dropbox unencrypted , if it is at all sensitive . We have a range of questions on this topic over on <URL> and more than happy to discuss in <URL> .
There is ! But it 's slightly hidden , and you 'll probably miss it on your first attempt ... ( I certainly did ! ) Towards the north end of the station , not that far from the Eurostar checkin , are the toilets and a Bureau de Change . Hidden away in the wall between the two is the sole ATM in the station . As of June 2014 , it 's run by Societe Generale , and therefore does n't charge any extra fees for most people . If you look on the <URL> , and look around the area labelled " Hall 3 " , you 'll spy the logo for it . Basically , head for the Bureau de Change or Toilets , and look carefully between the two , and lo ye shall find the ATM of which ye searches ! If all else fails , at various points in the station are maps , which include a red " vous êtes ici " marker . Check them , and use those to narrow in on the ATM ( or whatever else it was you were looking for ) . Lille Europe station is something like 500m long , so you can end up walking rather a lot of you do n't spot it and keep going ...
Unfortunately , there are n't many local trains from Dushanbe . <URL> goes to the <URL> , but it does n't got very straight , and just once a week ( and sometimes it does n't go at all ) . So all I can suggest instead of M41 ( Pamirs highway ) is to go via A372 to <URL> , and from there take a car or bus to Bishkek . But I ca n't get any news from this region to define if there any troubles or not .
You may want to play with your dates . Beginning of April will put you into Easter travel time , but for example April 18 to October 2nd would make the ticket through Brisbane and LAX in the range of about US$ 1800 , which at the current exchange rate would be about NZD$ 2070 . On Kayak . EDIT One more thing . Consider buying AKL - > LAX and LAX - > YVR separately .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
The reason why airlines implement a policy of asking overweight people to get two seats is an air safety issue of whether they can be strapped in properly . The guideline used for this is whether a passenger can fit between the armrests . If a passenger requires two seats , then the policy differs from airline-to-airline if/what the passenger should be charged for it . On London to Sweden flights , British Airways flies Airbus A319/A320 -100 / 200 aircraft with <URL> ( " World Traveller Plus " ) . Premium economy is not as expensive as business class and if you have frequent flyer points , you may be able to get the upgrade cheap . <URL> depending on which flight you take with no difference in business class . <URL> as BA , and <URL> - the difference is that seat pitch ( distance ) is a good 4-5 " less than ' full-cost ' airlines . If that 's not a concern , buying two seats on a budget airline will be cheaper . EDIT : BA does not offer premium economy class for short-haul flights .
Tipping in Israel First things first : <URL> . You have no obligation to tip anyone , although showing appreciation for good service is often a good idea . <URL> , which seems to summarise the general consensus found on the internet . In general , cash tips are preferred . I paraphrase below the main tipping tips I found while scouring the web . Restaurans / Bars / Cafes / Food Delivery The tip usually oscillates between 10 % and 15 % . The latter being a generous tip . The average seems to be 12 % . Leave cash tips , since <URL> . Leaving 5-10 % tip to your food delivery man is common practice . Hotels Give 5 NIS per bag to your bellman , 5-10 NIS per day to the maids . Check if tip is included in room service , if not 5-10 % is a good amount . Tour Guides Give 15 % to your tour guide , if they work for a private company . Self-employed guides will include the tip in the total cost of the tour . Do n't forget to tip the driver some 120-150 NIS . Taxi Drivers Tipping taxi drivers is n't required . You can always round up the fare to the nearest integer value , if you feel like it . Spas Tipping attendants is n't required . Tipping therapists is n't mandatory but some people do it . <URL> : Hairdressing and spa tips Hairdresser / Stylist -- 20 NIS Shampooer -- 10 NIS Nails -- 10 NIS Masseuse -- 20 NIS Spa Attendant -- no need to tip
Actually it seems that the ticket distribution moved to Members of Congress only to combat <URL> going back to Clinton era . And then under George W. Bush under the claim that <URL> : '' The White House welcomes large numbers of visitors , consistent with previous administrations , '' said the White House spokesman , Ari Fleischer . '' The tours are free . We discourage the practice of having vendors or outside groups make a profit by charging unsuspecting tourists , including any tour that would charge money for access to the White House even as part of a larger tour . '' The unguided tours were still allowed on a first come first served basis by waiting in line : They recommend that visitors get their feet in the front door by standing in line at the White House Visitors ' Center ( the line sometimes starts before 5 a.m. ) or by contacting their representatives in Congress , who receive tickets for guided tours for their constituents . ( The public tours are unguided . ) You can take a look at <URL> which has a lot of good references on the changes to tours over the years but ticket distribution went completely to Members of Congress in 2003 as an additional " security " measure following the 9/11 attacks .
end question
start question
Do US citizens need to purchase US health insurance while traveling abroad , under the rules of the Affordable Care Act ?
If you were gone for a little less than three months , rather than three months or more , it qualifies as a " short gap " in coverage and so you 're exempt from the requirement to have insurance . From the <URL> What are the statutory exemptions from the requirement to obtain minimum essential coverage ? ... Short coverage gap . You went without coverage for less than three consecutive months during the year . For more information , see question 22 . Otherwise , I suspect that you 're out of luck . There 's an exemption from having coverage if you 're gone for an entire year ; from the <URL> U.S. citizens living abroad are generally subject to the same individual shared responsibility provision as U.S. citizens living in the United States . Starting in 2014 , the individual shared responsibility provision calls for each individual to have minimum essential coverage ( MEC ) for each month , qualify for an exemption , or make a payment when filing his or her federal income tax return . However , U.S. citizens or residents living abroad for at least 330 days within a 12 month period are treated as having MEC during those 12 months and thus will not owe a shared responsibility payment for any of those 12 months . Also , U.S. citizens who qualify as a bona fide resident of a foreign country for an entire taxable year are treated as having MEC for that year . It may still be cheaper to pay the tax penalty for the three months in question than it would be to buy insurance that 's valid in the US , though . You might want to look in to how much the penalty would actually be for you . The penalty for full-year non-coverage is <URL> this would be pro-rated for the parts of the year in which you do n't have coverage , so your penalty would be about a quarter of this amount . Disclaimer : I am not a lawyer or a tax professional of any kind , so my reading could be entirely off-base . There may be other exemptions that I 'm not aware of .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
Emirati immigrations is a federal agency , hence visa rules are the same for all Emirates . The visas are issued for all the country under the name of UAE and not for a single Emirate or under its name .
You could still use your iPhone , buy apps that work offline for maps , city guides , etc. , try to find Wifi for the rest including Skype calls back home and limit expensive roaming calls to a minimum . It 's obviously less comfortable than having unlimited Internet everywhere but it 's easy to set up ( compared to other solutions like unlocking/buying pay-as-you go SIM card or buying some secondary phone ) and still lets you use some of the iPhone 's functionality .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
Depending on the country , a box sent through the regular mail service works fine . We had to do that when on vacation in the US , to ship back items to France since we also knew that these would not fit inside our suitcases . UPS asked us $ 150 . USPS did it for $ 40 . If you ask DHL , FedEx which are in the premium range , it can be expensive . Also , during another earlier trip , we simply bought an extra suitcase before heading home . If you expect to have " leftover " baggage allowance at your airline , this can be the solution . It costs you the price of the newly acquired piece of luggage , which can be reused later . Anyway , take note of the restrictions of the local post system . For instance , USPS does not allow shipping batteries ... thus disqualifying all tech items like cell phones , tablets , cameras .
No , you do n't need a transcript . Here is the list of the requirements from the <URL> : A Form I-20 , endorsed for travel and signed by your DSO You have been out of the United States for less than five months A current passport valid for at least six months after the date of your reentry or , if you are from one of the countries listed below , a passport that is current through the date of entry A valid , current visa or you traveled to contiguous country or adjacent island for less than thirty days Financial information showing proof of necessary funds to cover tuition and living expenses If you are from a visa exempt country , you do not need a visa to reenter the United States from the western hemisphere , but make sure that you present your I-20 to be admitted as an F-1 student and not a visitor .
The hospital will want to verify your ability to pay before admitting you . And as your insurance provider is outside the country , they would likely want a local representative to confirm payment services are available within the country . A fair number of " travel insurance " issuers work through just a few actual coverage underwriters . And the bigger underwriters maintain offices in major countries around the world . So knowing who actually underwrites the insurance coverage and their local office number could help in the situation you encountered . But having the phone number is not a guarantee , as some travel insurance policies do require you to pay up front and be reimbursed by filing a claim afterwards . In terms of being refused admittance due to lack of a means of payment , this depends on the nature of your visit . As Choster mentioned hospitals have a mandate to provide primary medical care in an emergency , but this applies primarily to life threatening emergencies . A private hospital can refer less serious cases to the regional public hospital where indigent care is provided .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
Even if many countries switched to ( which is apparently recommended by the <URL> ) in the last decades , the <URL> . Traditionally , business numbers were written as and it was up to the caller to substitute the right call prefix . Fortunately , modern mobile phones now take care of this for you . So you should be able to use the full number with directly in your contact list and let the phone handle those numbers correctly wherever you are . I always record all numbers that way , with country code and area prefix included - including local numbers and other numbers in my current country of residence - and never had any trouble - whether difficulties reaching a specific number or unexpected charges . I even moved to another country with my whole contact list without needing to update anything to use my new number/SIM card . Note that I did not personally test this solution in either Canada or Ecuador .
I 'm not sure whether what you 're looking for exists . One of the better offers I 've seen so far is Prepaidzero 's " Prepaid SIM for mobile data in all of Europe " ( it 's currently listed at the bottom of their <URL> page ) . It 's limited to 7GB for a 30-day period , as well as to 500MB per day . A card that 's valid for 15 days costs $ 221,25 ( about 230 USD at today 's rate ) ; the card is shipped worldwide for a $ 7,00 fee . They offer cards in standard , micro and nano SIM sizes . It does n't quite provide the amount of data you 're looking for . But unless this happens to be an uncompetitive offer , I 'm somewhat skeptical you 'll find a package that offers more than 4 times as much data for a very similar price ( that is , at least 30 GB for around 200 USD as stated in your question ) .
I assume the numbering of mileposts is to match the numbering of the U.S. Interstates themselves -- west to east interstates , which have even-numbers , are numbered from south to north ( i.e. I-10 runs through southern states , and I-90 runs through northern states ) . Likewise , south to north interstates , which have odd-numbers , are numbered from west to east -- I-5 runs along the west coast , and I-95 runs along the east coast . Note that this is the opposite of the US Highway system -- north to south routes grow larger from east to west . US Highway 1 is on the east coast , and the old US Highway 99 ( which is now no longer a US Highway ) ran along the west coast . Likewise , US Highway 14 runs through several northern states , and US Highway 82 runs across several southern states . I believe the reason the Interstates were numbered opposite of the US Highways was to avoid confusion , i.e. when talking about route 5 along the west coast , you know the person is talking about an Interstate , not a US Highway .
I believe the answer is immigration , immigration and immigration ( real or perceived ) . In Europe at least , visa requirements and enforcement measures are motivated mostly by the risk that the people in question would try to enter the country and stay there illegally ( and of course all the political posturing around that risk ) . It could be argued that immigration is generally a net gain for a country ( cf. your point about talented people ) or that the risk of illegal immigration is overblown or entirely the result of an overly restrictive policy regarding legal immigration but none of this changes the politics . Just to provide some direct evidence of all this , the following is from the preamble of the Schengen visa code : In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty , the creation of an area in which persons may move freely should be accompanied by measures with respect to external border controls , asylum and immigration . [ ... ] As regards visa policy , the establishment of a ' common corpus ' of legislation , particularly via the consolidation and development of the acquis ( the relevant provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 and the Common Consular Instructions , is one of the fundamental components of ' further development of the common visa policy as part of a multi-layer system aimed at facilitating legitimate travel and tackling illegal immigration through further harmonisation of national legislation and handling practices at local consular missions ' , as defined in the Hague Programme : strengthening freedom , security and justice in the European Union . [ ... ] It is necessary to set out rules on the transit through international areas of airports in order to combat illegal immigration . Thus nationals from a common list of third countries should be required to hold airport transit visas . Nevertheless , in urgent cases of mass influx of illegal immigrants , Member States should be allowed to impose such a requirement on nationals of third countries other than those listed in the common list . Member States ' individual decisions should be reviewed on an annual basis . This is only one example but it 's explicitly all about immigration . I think the other considerations ( reciprocity , passports ) only factor in tangentially . Note that until now the EU has not really been insisting so strongly on reciprocity , so that US citizens still enjoy visa-free visits to the whole Schengen area despite the fact that after years of discussion there are still several EU countries whose citizens are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program . Similarly , some or all EU citizens enjoy visa-free ( or visa-on-arrival ) access to countries such as Turkey , Morocco , Tunisia and most of South America so reciprocity is clearly overemphasized as an explanation .
Generally no , especially if you 're asking about academic studies : Is it permissible to enroll in school while in B-1 / B-2 status ? No , it is not . The regulations , at 8 CFR 214.2 ( b ) ( 7 ) , specifically prohibit study in the United States while in B-1 or B-2 status . Before enrolling in classes , individuals who are in B-1 or B-2 status must first acquire F-1 ( academic student ) or M-1 ( vocational student ) status . Enrolling in classes while in B-1 / B-2 status will result in a status violation . Individuals in B-1 or B-2 status , who have violated their nonimmigrant status by enrolling in classes , are not eligible to extend their B status or change to F-1 or M-1 status . These regulations provide no exceptions . <URL> However , allegedly there is a way kind of study legally provided that the course is short , limited to no more than 18 hours a week , and recreational . Requirements to Study on the B Visa Your course of study must be less than 18 hours per week . You must be studying for recreational purposes , not for academic credit . Evidence of sufficient funds to pay for all expected expenses for the duration of your visit . <URL>
As far as my understanding goes , you can visit Cuba , but you can not spend money there . The USA has an embargo on Cuba . <URL> . You need a license to actually participate in commerce ... but since that includes buying food you in essence can not go to Cuba . Licenses are released however . I have a Cuban uncle who goes back once a year . The valid reasons as per <URL> are : Professional journalists on assignment in Cuba Full-time professionals conducting academic research or attending professional conferences Persons on official government business The following are issued on a case by case basis : Persons visiting immediate family in Cuba Full-time graduate students conducting academic research to be counted toward a graduate degree Undergraduate or graduate students participating in a study abroad program of at least 10 weeks in length Professors/teachers employed at a US institution travelling to Cuba to teach Persons engaging in religious activities Freelance journalists Persons engaging in humanitarian projects Persons engaging in non-profit cultural exhibitions So in summary , is it open travel ? No . Is it possible ? Yes . The most common way around this that I have heard is " travel writers . "
According to <URL> , a Hong Kong citizen does not require a visa to visit Russian for up to 14 days , even if they are a resident of Canada . Note that you will require an onward ticket in order to be granted entry . In general , residency does not affect visa requirements , however it 's always a good idea to check .
As they are separate countries , you will indeed need two visas - one for Canada , and one for the US . You will need to apply for each one separately . As Algeria is NOT one of the countries eligible for the US <URL> , you 'll need to apply for a visa in advance - <URL> . To get a visa , you 'll need to fill out an application from the Canadian embassy in Algeria for Canada , and the US Embassy for the United States visa . These quite often take time to process , so try and do it as soon as you know when you 're travelling - do n't leave them to the last minute !
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
You can apply to replace a lost I-94 by filing <URL> . It 's very expensive though . It might be worth checking the <URL> in case they have it there , in which case you can print it out ; though it 's unlikely in your case . How are you leaving the U.S. ? According to <URL> , if you leave by air , you do n't have to turn in an I-94 . But if you leave by land , then you need to turn in an I-94 , so you might need to get a replacement . Or maybe if you do n't turn it in you can try to resolve it out with CBP the next time you try to enter , with proof that you entered Canada or Mexico .
end question
start question
The Atomic Testing Museum : Suitable for small children ?
Been there ! It is a really nice exhibition , but I would have expected a bit more to see . It 's not scary at all , more exiting and entertaining in a ' 1950 's amazement ' kind of way . You wont see any " death and destruction " there , the worst thing is probably the <URL> . I think the science part falls a bit too short , but it is well explained . Sadly , no pictures were allowed in the museum otherwise I would have attached one . But I found another thing you will probably see on the streets that 's not suitable for kids in las vegas :) but I digress ...
Short answer - as best as I can find : No . However this does n't mean there wo n't be . Historically book tours that exist have tended to only appear once a movie exists . While Harry Potter existed in book form , platform 9 and 3/4 at Kings Cross only appeared after movies featured it , and Lord of the Rings tours in New Zealand obviously only appeared to show filming locations ( as obviously there 's no real middle earth to tour ) . The best option aside from doing your own might be ( if you had the cash ) to approach a custom tour company in the regions and ask them to create one for you .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
Most major airlines offer what is known as " Unaccompanied Minor " service . You will not see it as a booking option online , as normally you , the parent or guardian , need to call the airline to arrange this . It is an extra fee on top of the airfare . With the service , an airline or airport staff member will accompany the minor from check in to the gate and then hand them over to the gate staff / cabin crew . At each subsequent airport , a ground staff will accompany the minor through to their next flight or to baggage claim where parents / relatives / legal guardians are waiting . Some airports allow the parents to accompany the child until the first gate . Luftansa does offer this for 50 Euros per leg and I imagine if you google a bit you will find many other European carriers offering something similar .
Non-airconditioned classes tend to have less strict ticket checks starting with the lowest class and gradually increasing till the highest class . Unreserved coaches are usually jam-packed with no place to sleep ; you often have to travel standing even at night and not advised . Three-tier non-AC ( three bunk beds in one ' column ' ) and second class / two-tier non-AC ( also called sleeper class ; two bunk beds in one ' column ' ) is the most common class of travel and it is safe for women if travelling in a group . Air-conditioned classes tend to have stricter staff supervision , ticket checking , and more numerous police patrols . ( First class non-AC enjoys the same benefits too . ) Although AC coaches are more expensive , for solo women travellers it might be worth the peace-of-mind . Look out whether the destinations you want to travel to/from are serviced by ' Duronto Express ' or ' Garib Rath ' named trains as these offer air-conditioned coaches at non-AC prices , and travel almost non-stop between destinations thus sometimes getting you up to a day earlier than other trains ( which means , one less day spent overnight ) . For solo women travellers , safety in second/sleeper class depends on what region you are travelling in : as a rough guide , most trains running or originating south India are ' safer ' than ones running or originating in north India . Rather than outright theft , what will probably be of greater concern for solo women travellers would be getting stared at or harassed by men trying to hit on you ; it 's a sad fact but it happens more in the north than it does in the south . If available , check whether there are women-only or ' ladies compartments ' on the train you 're travelling in . Cases of theft or robbery are much more common in the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar-Madhya Pradesh region than they are anywhere else . In case issues arise , contacting the ticket checker ( known as ' TTE ' on Indian trains , will help to know this term in case you want to ask someone where he is ; ' TTE ' stands for ' Train Ticket Examiner ' ) the best thing to do . TTEs are higher ranking officials , usually speak English well enough to be understandable at the very least , and will be able to coordinate with railway police personnel onboard if so required .
You seem to forget one aspect : injuries . As far as I know , those are almost as common as anything else with children . So as a minimum I 'd definitely take : some plasters , bandages and gauze pads antiseptic spray or cream for wounds , maybe antiseptic wipes to clean out wounds cream for sprains or muscle ache and to treat sunburns tweezers to get out splinters or ticks Of course the last two will depend on what activities do you do and where you live . But I urge you not to forget about the first aid supplies for injuries . You will most certainly be fine with a child in pain who has to wait for 2 days to get pain medication , but a wound which you do n't have the means to treat correctly can become dangerous quite quickly .
You 'd have to verify this , but Las Vegas could be an option . However , the question is whether your country of residence accepts this marriage ; contacting the US consulate of your home country might be a good idea ; they would also be able to tell you what you 'd have to do to validate your marriage before you leave the US .
I take it you have seen the pictures of <URL> ( 4,158 m / 13,642 ft ) and <URL> ( 3,238 m / 10,623 ft ) on Wikipedia ? Mountains in Switzerland will not be closed , but most will require specialized gear ( and matching experience ) in winter . for Titlis ( the lower of the two peaks ) , the temperatures in February are : I 'm not sure about your definition of Chilly ; my definition would be ' Freezing cold '
To travel under VWP , travel purpose must be permitted on a visitor ( B ) visa , as mentioned as the first point in the <URL> . This means , your ESTA is basically a simplified B1/B2 visa , same rules apply , the difference is the process only . Now , checking the rules for both <URL> and <URL> visas lists nothing about your specific " writing " purpose , but indeed it does allow you to travel for " holidays " purposes , which is the main purpose of your travel as you mentioned . The only thing that was mentioned a few times with emphasis is " getting paid from a US based entity " , which is totally prohibited for holders of B visas , that means also prohibited for people on ESTA , and you explicitly mentioned that you are not going to make money , so we can safely assume that you will be fine doing your writing in your free time while you are on a " vacation " in the US . The closest thing I could find in the rules that might be similar to your situation was " researching " , and the rules allow that : Independent research , no salary/income from a U.S. based source , or benefit to U.S. institution . Conclusion : There is nothing in the rules explicitly prohibits you from writing while you are on a vacation in the US as long as you are not making money out of it from a US based entity . So , feel free to write .
Those backpacks are very comfortable and they help to reduce the back sweating we all have experienced during long trips . I think the choice depends greatly on the type of trip you are planning to take . If you are leaving for a , let 's say , three day trek where you do n't need much stuff with you , and you will likely have the backpack with you at all times , then that is the perfect choice for minimizing fatigue . If , instead , you are leaving for a month trip in , eg , middle east where you need much more space and you wo n't likely have the backpack with you all day ( because you can leave it in hostels , train etc ) I would go for a normal and lighter one ( not to mention that usual backpack are less likely to be stolen than a fancier one )
The <URL> ( 沖縄クラシックカー協会 ) has a <URL> atop a garage specializing in , you guessed it , classic cars . All visitors welcome . In Ginowan on the main island , not far from the US Army base , so I imagine they 've had the odd long-nose visiting in the past . Open Mon-Sat 8:30 -18:30 , <URL> . The one problem for you is that they appear to specialize in the one thing that 's neither Japanese nor American , namely European cars .
<URL> These are the <URL> as defined by ICAO . Looking at <URL> you can see that the ISO 3166-1 codes are used both to identify the issuing country as well as the nationality of the passport holder . So your cousin 's passport seems to be correct . For completeness sake note that ARE is also the NATO 3-letter code for United Arab Emirates .
The answer is likely to be yes . For starters , kayaking on the Han river is a commonly practised water-sport both by <URL> <URL> , and by tourists with <URL> . <URL> even rent kayaks out . Now , the water quality of the Han river has been radically improving since <URL> . The most recent published analyses I could fin date from 2011 , and present positive conclusions stating that , <URL> : The Biological Oxygen Demand ( BOD ) level measured at 10 spots along the river was 2.3 milligrams per liter on average , they said . The previous record was 2.33 milligrams per liter established in 2003 . BOD is a chemical procedure for determining the amount of dissolved oxygen needed by aerobic biological organisms in a body of water to break down organic material present in a given water sample at a certain temperature over a specific time period . It is not a precise quantitative test , although it is widely used as an indication of the organic quality of water . Last year 's BOD level shows the river 's water is clean enough to be used at homes and swimming pools with normal water purification procedures . In addition , <URL> : Swimming in Han River made possible by improved water quality Seoul has currently achieved 100 percent connection of its population to the sewerage system . The total treatment capacity , originally 5.81 million / day , was reduced to 4.98 million / day by the end of 2013 due to the conversion into advanced treatment facilities with higher nitrogen and phosphorus treatment efficiency . The total sewer length is maintaining 10,487 km in 2012 . With the introduction of advanced sewage treatment for nitrogen and phosphorus removal since 1996 , the water quality in Han River was further improved ; BOD in midstream and downstream was reduced to as low as 3mg/L or less , which makes swimming possible . Up to you to decide on whether or not the water is clean enough for kayaking . Regardless of what online report say , personally , I would avoid drinking it .
Unfortunately this site is only in German , but maybe you understand some basic information , because there are also lot of pictures in it : <URL> It is a 18 day tour in Ecuador that leads from the Andes until Amazon . I know you have only time for 4-7 , but maybe you can get some suggestions from it . Here is another German site which offers a lot of different tours in Ecuador that are not necessarily Trekking tours like Hauser : <URL> !
As discussed in a <URL> , there are now two companies dedicated to that exact need : <URL> <URL> According to a <URL> : I used both . Onwardflights.com photoshops tickets , Flyonward.com books real tickets . Onwardflights is cheaper for a reason .
From <URL> Can a Visa Waiver Program traveler with more than one passport travel to the United States on the passport that he or she did not use when applying for a travel authorization ? No . Each Visa Waiver Program traveler must have an approved travel authorization for the passport they plan to use before they travel to the United States . If a traveler obtains a new passport , they must submit a new travel authorization application in ESTA using the new passport . A processing fee will be charged for each new application submitted .
Most airlines set a minimum age where children can travel alone . The exact policies will vary between airlines , but they generally work like this : Minimum age to fly alone at all . This is often around age 5 for airlines in the US . Children below this age must always fly with a parent or other responsible adult . Unaccompanied minor service . Some airlines offer this service for an additional fee . It is often required for children age 5-11 or so and optional for kids 12 + , but the rules and age cut-offs vary between airlines , with some requiring it through age 14 or even 15 . The airlines will also set rules about when this service can be used : some wo n't offer it on international flights , or itineraries with any connections , or itineraries with tight connections , etc. . . With this service , an adult must bring the minor to the airport , get them checked in and signed in with the airline , and airline staff will escort them from place to place as needed until they arrive at the destination and an authorized adult shows ID and picks up the child . On board , the flight attendants will introduce themselves to the unaccompanied minor and will give them some extra attention , though kids are still generally on their own during the flight and should be able to occupy themselves . If there are connections , airline staff will escort the child to their next flight . In many cases , the adult dropping off the child must wait at the airport until the departing flight has taken off as well . No supervision required . Above this age ( somewhere between 12-15 for many airlines ) , the airline 's policy does not require any supervision . Some airlines may still offer optional unaccompanied minor service for older travelers if parents want to pay for it . Parents should still consider their child 's maturity and their ability to solve problems or get help if things go wrong . As always , parents need to know their kids best and decide what is appropriate for them . Many five-year-olds may not be ready to fly by themselves , especially if they 've never been on an airplane before . Some 12-year-olds may be seasoned world travelers and not need any assistance . Ultimately , parents need to decide this for their kids before making travel plans . There 's a big difference between a direct one-hour domestic flight and a three-stop 24-hour around-the-world trip . The exact policies and even the availability of these services will vary from airline-to-airline ( and many low-cost-carriers do not offer unaccompanied minor service ) , so it 's important to research all possible airlines and the fees involved before booking tickets . Most airlines have a page on their website explaining the policy , and a search for the name of the airline and " minors " will bring it up . I certainly would n't say that it is " extremely dangerous " for kids to travel alone . As with all travel , there 's a risk that things can go wrong due to delays , missed connections , bad weather , etc. . . The result is generally lost time and inconvenience , which may certainly be stressful for kids , but is n't " extreme danger . " All the requirements for human life , telephones to call home , airline staff who look after unaccompanied minors , etc. . . are all available at airports .
There are great many options along the various highways and byways in the US for lodging , though if you are looking for B&amp;B s you would have to check ahead because they are usually small and may be booked . When travelling on the interstates and other divided highways you would see signs like : This one is to indicate that at exit 14B there is a <URL> . Of course you could see a sign which will leave you wondering : But these are rare . Mostly along the roads you will find inexpensive chains like : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and a few others . Most of these are quite clean and safe to stay at though <URL> . One thing I would suggest is when you are travelling with kids is to actually plan out your route . For example , last year I went to a <URL> region in the 2nd week of July and there was no hotels/motels/B &amp; Bs to be had ( except for obscene amounts of money ) because of the local festival so check for those first and if possible make reservations ahead of time .
You have several choices : You currently have subway from the airport which will make life easier . But still , depending on the time you arrive to Lisbon and how old the kids are I would or not risk go downtown . The subway can be very crowded at rush hour . If you have a stroller I would only consider it if it 's not rush hour . People are kind and will almost for sure help , but it can be painful and you have to change at least once . Options Go to " <URL> " . It 's not a historically iconic part of the city but it 's 3 subway stations away from the airport . It ´ s a new and nice area , built specially for Expo 98 , with lot 's of gardens , Ocenario , a cable car , several restaurants , near to Tagus river . You can either walk a bit , use the cable car and enjoy the scenary or just relax in one of the gardens or a cafe . You can go to " Parque das Nações " and visit <URL> ( <URL> ) . It 's worth it and kids love it . ( Ocenário is the biggest aquarium in Europe and the second in the World ) . Go downtown ( Option 1 ) . It 's a bit more tricky . You have change once between subway lines and it will take you aprox 30 min . You can get out in Rossio and walk to Terreiro do Paço . There you will be able to see the castle ( in the Hill ) , see Lisbon architecture and urbanism ( this area was built by Marques de Pombal , after the 1775 earthquake ) . Go dowtown ( option 2 ) . Get out in Rossio and find " <URL> " You get the tram here and go up the hill . When you arrive you will be near " <URL> " one of the typical neighbourhoods of Lisbon and " <URL> " with a <URL> over Lisbon and to the Castle . Go downtown ( option 3 ) . Instead of going to to Rossio go do " Marquês " by subway ( again , it will take you aprox 30 min . to arrive ) . From there you can walk down " Avenida da Liberdade " to Rossio . If you look back when starting , you will see the beautifull " <URL> " . Avenida da Liberdade is considered one of the most luxurious avenues in the world . When arriving to Rossio do n't forget to drink the :) world famous " <URL> " . Near by you can find " <URL> " , currently an association and a restaurant . Before a Palace . You can go in a see the architecture . It 's a very beautifull and unexpected place ( nice for a quick visit ) . If you just want to relax a bit and get away from the aiport you can do it also in " <URL> " . It 's easy to arrive by subway and you can do a bit of tourism sitted in a garden bench . It has a playground with swings for kids . It 's not an amazing " must visit " area . It 's just nice to relax for a while and it has its part of history . Alameda was built during " <URL> " when there was a dictatorship in Portugal . In one side you can see " fonte luminosa " an imponent fountain ( recently repaired ) . In the other side there is " Técnico " one of the best portuguese universities . There is also a Theater in the middle called " Império " ( Empire - iconic name , like the architecture of the fountain , to show Portugal a great country - regime propaganda ) . Currently " Imperio " is a church from " Igreja Universal do Reino de Deus " . These are all built with the same kind of architecture . ( Note : if you want to eat , I would advise you to visit " Cervejaria Imperio " under the Theater . It used to have one of the best stakes of Lisbon . It 's not what it used to be but it 's still a very nice place to go and not expensive if you have the buffet lunch . ) Another alternative may be going to " <URL> " It 's a small farm in the city with several farm animals ( horses , donkeys , sheep , chickens , etc ) specially made for kids . They often have activities like baking bread , etc. ( but you have to enroll for these ) . It 's a nice place , it 's free ( you can just walk in ) and it 's near the airport ( you can get there by <URL> also , it 's 4 stations away from the airport ) . It 's usually open from 10h to 19h except monday ( closed ) . Additional Resources <URL> of the Lisbon subway system . You can easily find the metioned stations above . For a quick reference : Aeroporto in the red line is the airport station . Baixa-chiado or Rossio gives you direct access down-town . Terreiro do Passo also leaves you downtown and near the river .
What Mark Mayo said is basically correct . Some other tips/notes : You should have no problems making purchases with a credit card in any petrol station in Bulgaria . Same applies to international chains such as McDonalds , Subway , Billa , Metro , Lidl etc. . Coffee shops , bars and restaurants , as well as clothing and apparel stores will usually accept credit cards , unless they are decidedly of the low-cost/fast-food variety . A hard-and-fast rule : if it looks fancy or is a brand name you recognize , it should n't be a problem , especially in big cities . I 'm not sure whether there 's a hard limit on the minimum amount of purchase , but if paying by card is an option , anything above $ 3 - $ 4 should be okay . Paying with card for travelling ( e.g. city transportation , trains , buses ) is particularly troublesome , and you probably wo n't be able to do it anywhere , so I 'd always keep cash on hand for that . If you just want to get something to eat at a random place you see on the street ( especially at night ) , chances are they wo n't accept your card . There 's a small possibility that your card wo n't work with some POS terminals , for inexplicable reasons -- I had this problem a few times with my foreign-issued VISA while shopping in Bulgaria . Most commonly accepted credit card types are VISA , VISA Electron , MasterCard , Maestro ( debit cards ) . If you have some other card operator , be prepared for a major disappointment . Disclaimer : I am Bulgarian .
end question
start question
Changing passport details for a flight ?
Most airlines allow you to manage bookings either online or by calling up their customer care numbers . Charges may apply for making changes but more often than not they are applied for changing flights rather than changing passenger details . ( N.B. Changing the passenger who will fly is almost never allowed . ) Air Asia does have an online booking management option and <URL> : If you have booked using your old passport details which has now expired , you can update your new passport details online via Manage My Booking , contact our call centre for assistance , or visit our nearest sales office/airport sales counter to update your booking . Air New Zealand does n't explicitly state whether changes to passport details are allowed but <URL> : However if you complete a booking and later find you have made a genuine mistake , please Air New Zealand just as soon as you realise . We 'll do whatever we can to help . You could always tell Air NZ that you accidentally entered expired passport details instead of the new one . This should be allowed as this is mostly a case of updating their passenger information system . <URL> . I 've flown with them and I do remember there being an option to update passenger details . However , I do n't have a current booking with them so I ca n't confirm this for sure ( but it probably is present ) . It 's advisable to make the change online or by calling up the airline in advance . Most do n't make a big fuss of it and rather that than having to explain an employee at the checkin counter . One more thing . This is n't related to this particular case but it 's an important point so I think I should mention it . <URL> through their airlines , although requirements on who need to provide this varies . In this situation it certainly becomes important to update passport details in advance . However , I 've found that even airlines which do n't fly to the US or on flights that do n't go the US ask for APIS details ; possibly because they 're plugging in the same server-side processing software and ca n't be bothered to customise it ?
" Open jaw " is very much a common travel industry term , and in fact you 'll find it specifically mentioned in the fare rules for many fares . Any travel agent you talk to will also be familiar with this term . There 's three different types of " open jaw " itineraries . The first is where your trip starts and ends at the same airport , but the destination on the outbound is different to the start of the return . eg , SFO-JFK , IAD-SFO would be an example of this - the start and end is SFO for both legs , but the return starts from a different location to the initial destination . The second type of open-jaw is when your trip starts at a different airport to where it ends , but via a single destination . eg , SFO-JFK-LAX The third type is a combination of both of the above . eg , SFO-JFK , followed by IAD-LAX . This is referred to as a " Double Open Jaw " , as in effect there 's an open jaw on both ends of the trip . The rules for open-jaws vary between airlines and even between specific fares . Normally the rule is that the " non flown " part of the journey has to be shorter than BOTH of the flown sectors . eg , given SFO-JFK-LAX , the non flown part of the journey is LAX-SFO . eg , SFO-STL ( 1735 miles ) and ORD-SFO ( 1846 miles ) is a valid open jaw as the distance between the two cities is 258 miles , which is less than both of the flown legs . SFO-LAS ( 414 miles ) and DEN-SFO ( 967 miles ) is NOT a valid open jaw routing , as the distance between LAS and DEN is 628 miles , which is greater than one of the flown legs . Recently I 've seen a few fares where the rules were that the non-flown sector had to be shorter than the LONGEST of the flown journeys . eg , the following is from the fares rules for a United Airline international flight : OPEN JAWS FARES MAY BE COMBINED ON A HALF ROUND TRIP BASIS - TO FORM SINGLE OR DOUBLE OPEN JAWS . MILEAGE OF THE OPEN SEGMENT MUST BE EQUAL/LESS THAN MILEAGE OF THE LONGEST FLOWN FARE COMPONENT . To understand why open-jaw matters , you need to understand a little of how airlines price flights . Many airlines will price fares differently for one-way v 's return journeys , with return trips generally being far cheaper than two one-way trips . This is n't always the case - especially for domestic flights - but for international flights it 's extremely common . Without a concept of open-jaw , a trip like SFO-SIN , BKK-SFO would have to be booked as two one-way trips , which would increase the price significantly . Booking as an open-jaw allows this to be priced as a much cheaper return trip .
Wind affects how long a flight takes . A jet plane travels at about 550 miles per hour . If you have a 100 mph head wind then your speed overland is around 450 miles per hour . If you have a 100 mph tail wind than your speed over land is about 650 miles per hour . Over the course of a 3600 mile or longer flight ( about 6.5 hours without wind ) the difference can be quite noticeable . Furthermore , wind patterns can be seasonal . There are some flights that take 6 hours during part of the year and 9 hours during other parts of the year .
You 're unlikely to have much issue with the carry-on limitations with just one or two small items held in your hands . A cell phone and pair of earphones in your pocket certainly does n't count toward carry-on baggage limits . The bigger issue is the need to secure items in the cabin for takeoff and landing . Many airlines ( particularly US airlines in my experience ) will instruct passengers to stow laptops at this time ( as they can become dangerous projectiles in case of an emergency ) and specifically state that a seatback pocket is not an acceptable place to store a laptop . Many new seat designs have done away with seatback pockets all together as well . Laptops must be stored under the seat in front of you or in the overhead bin . These are not places I would want to leave a bare laptop ( laptops will slide on the plane 's carpet ) . As such , I 'd highly recommend at least a small inexpensive <URL> to protect your MacBook . At security , customs , and immigration , one issue is just physically handling your items ; navigating an airport with a bare laptop in hand is somewhat inconvenient ( how would you hang on to it while you went to the bathroom for instance ? ) and makes it easy to accidentally lose something . Quickly handing over your ID and scanning your boarding pass is difficult to do one-handed , and carrying a tray of food while trying to hold your laptop in your armpit can quickly become precarious . Furthermore , security officials are trained to be suspicious of people who do not fit into the normal pattern of travelers , and someone who has no bag and chooses to carry a laptop in his hands is at least a little unusual . It 's not that you would n't be allowed to travel , but an immigration officer might ask you more questions . At a minimum , the items would need to come out of your pockets at airport security . Beyond that , there are some additional items I like to carry with me when I travel even if I am checking the bulk of my luggage . Medications , if you take any , should never be checked , as you would have a problem on your hands if your bags are delayed or lost . A change of underwear and a spare t-shirt are a nice backup in cast of lost luggage too , and I generally want basic toiletries for long flights . On a long flight , it 's nice to be able to take keys and such out of my pockets for a little more comfort . All those things go inside my bag . Finally , where 's the charger for your MacBook in all this ? In short , while this can work , I ca n't really understand why you want to do this . There 's a reason you do n't see people clutching laptops in airports ; a small bag or laptop case is the simplest way to carry and protect your items . Most travelers have realized this and so bring one along . How is not using a bag more convenient ?
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
It turns out that the ever great <URL> has a great page on <URL> that covers this very thing . If you really want to , you can take the Lille Metro between the two stations . It 's just one stop , journey time measured in 10s of seconds , plus the wait for trains ! If you have a through SNCF ticket , the <URL> , otherwise it 's $ 1.40 for a ticket . ( It 's not clear from the SNCF website if only through tickets count for free transfer , or any from the other station , but there are no barriers if you did decide to chance it ... ) There are lifts at both ends , but they 're not always that easy to spot , or there are escalators for most but not all of the way . Alternately , it 's a short and mostly covered walk . Between the two stations is the <URL> , which features some interesting modern architecture and sculptures that 's worth a look . There 's also often some other artwork around , eg currently there 's an installation piece on the pond by Lille Europe . The walk is about 400m , and takes about 5 minutes without luggage . It 's fairly well signposted , and from both stations you can see the other . From Lille Flanders , take the signposted exit from near the end of platform 8 . Cross the little plaza by the taxi rank , and walk along the edge of the Euralille shopping center . Walk to the right of the bridge , down the slope past the artwork , up the escallators and into Lille Europe station . From Lille Europe , follow the signs for Lille Flanders , and exit half way along the platform . Down the escallators , and walk up towards Euralille . Cross the plaza in front of Lille Flanders station , and you 're there ! If it 's raining , you can do most of the route under cover by walking through the Euralille shopping center for much of it . If it 's raining very heavily , you can miss the outside bit near Lille Flanders descending to the metro , then walking along the subway tunnel that links Lille Flanders Metro with Euralille .
TL ; DR - You can renew the passport whenever you like . In 2011 I held a 5-year passport that was due to expire in -- IIRC -- 2013 . I was still enrolled at university at the time , which made me temporarily exempt from military service . Since males of the appropriate age need approval ( a specific form ) from the military commissariat for an international passport , and as I had a PhD position lined up abroad , I figured it would be easier to renew my passport while I was still exempt from military service , rather than having to face the hassle of doing this in the middle of my PhD program , no longer having the relevant exemption . To answer the question , I had zero problems getting a new passport , valid for 10 years , while there was still 2 years left on my old one . The lady at the issuing office was a bit surprised , but I simply told her , that I 've got a position abroad and would like to avoid the inconvenience of renewing a passport from abroad .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
You could dry the pages with paper towels as much as possible , then hang it to dry on a string with the pages spread out or separated by bits of paper towel - do n't leave them in contact with each other wet or they may stick together . Change the paper towels for dry ones periodically as it dries . You could also put it in a container with some silica gel , but buying that tends to be a bit of expedition even if you live in the place you 're looking ( some craft stores sell it for drying flowers ) . Or put it in sealed container with ( uncooked , of course ) rice , but always keep wet pages from spending too much time in contact by using paper towels . I dried out a passport and entire wallet contents this way with little trouble ( the cell phone did n't fare as well , unfortunately ) . Be sure to inspect any unused visas to make sure they 've not been damaged . I 've found that passports ( Canadian ones anyway ) are amazingly resilient -- despite being soaked with water or sweat they 're still usable with just a bit of wrinkling on the cover to show for it .
<URL> Just choose the Whole Month as departure and arrival date . You will be presented with a graphic in which you can pick the departure date , the arrival calendar will update accordingly .
Most airlines allow you to manage bookings either online or by calling up their customer care numbers . Charges may apply for making changes but more often than not they are applied for changing flights rather than changing passenger details . ( N.B. Changing the passenger who will fly is almost never allowed . ) Air Asia does have an online booking management option and <URL> : If you have booked using your old passport details which has now expired , you can update your new passport details online via Manage My Booking , contact our call centre for assistance , or visit our nearest sales office/airport sales counter to update your booking . Air New Zealand does n't explicitly state whether changes to passport details are allowed but <URL> : However if you complete a booking and later find you have made a genuine mistake , please Air New Zealand just as soon as you realise . We 'll do whatever we can to help . You could always tell Air NZ that you accidentally entered expired passport details instead of the new one . This should be allowed as this is mostly a case of updating their passenger information system . <URL> . I 've flown with them and I do remember there being an option to update passenger details . However , I do n't have a current booking with them so I ca n't confirm this for sure ( but it probably is present ) . It 's advisable to make the change online or by calling up the airline in advance . Most do n't make a big fuss of it and rather that than having to explain an employee at the checkin counter . One more thing . This is n't related to this particular case but it 's an important point so I think I should mention it . <URL> through their airlines , although requirements on who need to provide this varies . In this situation it certainly becomes important to update passport details in advance . However , I 've found that even airlines which do n't fly to the US or on flights that do n't go the US ask for APIS details ; possibly because they 're plugging in the same server-side processing software and ca n't be bothered to customise it ?
You are better off asking a doctor this . A child often needs medication labelled for children and it 's important you do not give him an adult dosage . Does your child have the flu ? Or are you trying to pack medication ' just in case ' ? If he has a runny nose I would recommend a simple salt based nose spray , if he has no complications at all and you are just trying to prepare , do n't bother .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
<URL> does that . When you do the search , one of the options is to subscribe for updates for the route and dates you 've selected , and they 'll email you when the prices change .
I do n't know what the law is , but when I was on Cuba , I always left my passport in the hotel safe and carried a copy . I spent some hours in a police station in Havana but I do n't think anybody ever wanted to see my passport . Many Europeans also have an identity card , I often carry that with me as a form of authentication . It does n't help you to get into the country , but it is a legal document and can be helpful if you have to deal with the authorities .
From <URL> ( same article as <URL> ) : <URL> - <URL> ( <URL> ) flight number : LOG 313 , 2.7 km ( 1.7 miles ) 02 min , aircraft : <URL> , first flight - 3 February 2004 It is obvious from that list that the best option is try searching near the islands . Second place is for the <URL> ( from St. Kitts to Nevis ) . Update : <URL> ( with video ) ! Update by Rory Alsop : Flight by my father , Capt. Andy Alsop <URL> , and then reduced by him to 58 seconds ! Screenshot of the page linked above ( from <URL> ) , as it may not be viewable to everyone : You can fly this on a <URL>
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
10:27 am to 11:54 am is insanely tight . The domestic to international MCT at JFK is 1:15 so I think the booking is possible but JFK is notorious for issuing impossible MCTs ( at one point United was selling a ticket with a transfer time of 30 minutes to a different terminal ! ) . So you are a full 12 minutes above the official unrealistic MCT . Nope . You land at LGA at 8:10 AM , let 's say you clear that airport in 40 minutes , that 's 8:50 AM , the drive over should not be more than 40 minutes but even if it 's 60 you have two hours to go through JFK check-in and security . This is way more realistic .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
If the identity and date are close to being illegible , that 's certainly a valid request . Otherwise you could have problems later . But just to make it " nicer " , well I suppose it wo n't hurt to ask , but I would expect a brusque reply in the negative .
end question
start question
Can I get by using only Spanish in Oaxaca ?
This depends on which locals you want to speak to . If you 're in the cities , you should have no trouble at all speaking Spanish to practically anyone . If you venture out into the country side , Spanish is more the trade language , and several local languages are used more commonly . Even in such places you should have no trouble using Spanish to conduct business , but if you are invited to a local 's home , you may have a difficult time discussing personal family matters using only Spanish . Note this <URL> : The main reason that indigenous languages and cultures have been able to survive here is the rugged terrain , which isolate communities . So the answer to your question : Can you get by with only Spanish , is a resounding yes . If you look hard enough , though , in the right places , you will find people with whom you can not communicate at all .
Short answer - no , not any more . ( It used to be possible pre-9 / 11 , but is n't allowed now ) To change between terminals airside at Heathrow , you need to go through Flight Connections . After the bit where they can issue boarding passes if you do n't have one , is the part where they check your boarding pass . No boarding pass for a different terminal , no access to the airside shuttle bus . Alternately , if you 're allowed to enter the UK , you could enter the UK in T5 , take the free train connection to T1/T2/T3 and walk the couple of minutes from there to T3 . However , you 'd then be stuck , as they would want to see a boarding pass before letting you into the security queue , and you wo n't have a T3 boarding pass , only a T5 one , so they wo n't let you in . . There is a workaround though if you want to do a ( significant ) amount of shopping . As described in <URL> at the end , Heathrow provides a <URL> . If you contact them in advance about it , they can apparently arrange for the item to be brought to another terminal so you can look at it and purchase . Apparently , if you have a lot of time , and it 's quiet , they might be able to arrange a transfer , but that part is n't guaranteed . That looks to be your only way . Well , other than booking a fully refundable ( check the T&amp;C closely ! ) ticket out of T3 , follow flight connections to T3 for that , shop , go online and cancel the ticket , ask customer services in T3 to " land " you , follow flight connections back to T5 on your onward boarding pass , then collapse in a heap on your return ... !
You can travel on most public transportation in London with your Oyster Card - Bus , Tube , tram , DLR ( Docklands Light Railway ) , London Overground , and Thames Clipper boats . You can even use it on the Emirates Air Line . The Oyster Card gives you a wide area of travel . The Tube has 9 zones . As long as you start and finish your journey within these 9 zones , you can use your Oyster Card . You can find more information here : <URL> You mentioned Paddington - You can not use your Oyster Card on the Heathrow Express which travels between Paddington and Heathrow Airport . But , you can easily use it at Paddington on the Tube ( Bakerloo , Circle , District , and Hammersmith &amp; City lines ) . Starting in September 2015 , you can easily touch in and touch out on the Thames Clipper boats with your Oyster Card to pay for your river travel . This makes travel on the river Thames easy . Here is a map of the routes it takes : <URL>
Yes , most Icelandic people speak very good English , you will be fine . Their language is indeed called Icelandic , and is fascinating in regards to its history . From wikipedia : The oldest preserved texts in Icelandic were written around 1100AD . The majority of these texts are poems or laws , preserved orally for generations before being written down . The most famous of these , written in Iceland from the 12th century onward , are without doubt the Icelandic Sagas , the historical writings of Snorri Sturluson ; and eddaic poems . With regards to learning a few Icelandic phrases , as with anywhere , people appreciate non-native speakers making the effort . " Takk " for " Thanks " is an easy one for starters . Some of the pronunciation is nigh on impossible for English speakers who have n't been exposed to it before , so do n't think you 'll attain even a basic grasp without a lot of study ! Their <URL> scheme is charming , and you may also be interested in the <URL> and how people derive their <URL> . " Z " was removed from the alphabet in 1973 .
Yes . At this writing , nothing in the <URL> specifically excludes earnings on Emirates-operated flights . The <URL> indicates Earn elite-qualifying AAdvantage miles when you fly on Qantas marketed and operated flights as well as Qantas Airways codeshare flights . Simply : Buy an eligible published fare ticket booked in an eligible code Fly an eligible route The accrual table is also provided on the partner page . At this writing , only Qantas codeshares operated by Jetstar are specifically excluded from earning AA miles . Other QF-coded flights should be fine , provided it is not prohibited in the fare rules . The FlyerTalk wikis on <URL> and <URL> as of August 2015 also seem to confirm that it is possible , with various anecdotal reports of success . FlyerTalk is generally up-to-date on such matters . N.B. Earning AAdvantage miles flying on EY and other non-oneworld operated flights as a QANTAS codeshare / marketed flight is an exception to oneworld rules that essentially state that to earn miles one must fly a oneworld marketed flight operated by a oneworld airline . See post # 4 for more . and To reiterate : one may earn AAdvantage miles flying an Emirates ( or Air Fiji , Air Tahiti Nui , etc. ) operated flight if it is marketed by QANTAS / a Qantas codeshare . <URL> at TravelingBetter.com .
Being there certainly would increase your chances - as you can go and see the places , meet the estate agents , and call people during day hours . Example : place comes on the market at 9am , calls start at 10am , they could show someone through at lunch and by the time you wake up in the US , it 's gone . I was in Riga in May sorting out my Uzbekistan visa , which took six days . There was a British woman in the hostel looking at places to live in . It was really hard , but with the help of locals ( including the hostel staff ) she was finding more sources , friends of friends who knew of places , and the like . Definitely easier when you 're in a city than from afar . You could also consider <URL> a bit when you arrive , or do what I 'll be doing for Vancouver when I head there soon , and stay in a hostel for a bit . There are some hostels in Riga ( Central Hostel was really nice and good value ) which are n't party hostels , but are very well located , and you 'll make a lot of connections if you talk to the staff . Even going to a Couchsurfing meetup in town could net you some more connections or offers of a place to stay . My recommendation - try from where you are , but accept that it 'll be easier on the ground , and make back-up plans to make connections on your arrival .
Yes you can . Canada has no exit checks . Britain has recently instituted them , but I see no sign that they will require you to exit on a British passport ( they do n't require you to enter on a British passport ) . Neither have a problem with you being a dual citizen . And either passport will get you visa-free access to the other country . <URL> , but in this case it 's not a big deal . Show either one whenever . The only place where it makes a difference is coming to Britain , where showing your British passport gets you in the fast immigration line . ( Strangely there is no equivalent benefit in Canada ) .
Legally , you can book a hotel room if you are 18 in the state of Washington . I believe this is true in most parts of the U.S. , but there may be exceptions for particular states . Some hotels have policies with a higher minimum age , such as 21 . However , this is far from universal . You might have to do a little bit of extra research , including checking hotel websites , emailing , or calling for confirmation . However , I do n't think you 'll have a big problem finding a room .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
There is an established trail that was developed with the same aim as the idea behind your question : the <URL> . It is about 800km long from coast to coast and wiki states 45 days for the average hiker . It is however very remote and I would not advise is without decent hiking experience in mountainous terrain . It is also unmarked and the navigation is rather tricky in places . Easier options are the <URL> and <URL> , which run more or less parallel to the HRP further to the north in France ( GR10 ) and further to the south in Spain ( GR11 ) . Those are more accessible and marked , but stay serious undertakings to cover in a single trek . The distances are somewhere between 800 and 900km ( depending on the source ) . Many variations are possible for each of those three trails , including switching from trail to trail . There are plenty of guidebooks around and the links on each of the wiki pages will give you a good start . If you are feeling very competitive you might even try to <URL> next summer . There are no legal or political issues with the Spanish-French border . As long as you are allowed into the Schengen zone , you are fine . If you want to cross into Andorra and your nationality requires a Schengen visa , you should be a bit more careful and make sure that you have a multiple entry Schengen visa ( <URL> ) . Thanks to phoog for that catch . And if you really care a lot about the Spanish-French border , keep in mind that it consists of the three unconnected pieces : one on each side of Andorra and the border around <URL> .
You can get Biometrics for a Canadian Visa done at any USCIS Application Support Center ( ASC ) . The list of <URL> . You can find the instructions for attending an ASC on the <URL> - scroll down to the section entitled " If applying from within the United States "
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
As far as I know the only way is via Arusha or by private car . For the route via Arusha you can <URL> ( full disclosure : I work on this project ) . There you can catch a local bus onward , though these run infrequently , maybe not even daily . I 'm not sure what your intentions once reaching the park are , since there are n't likely to be facilities set-up for access without a car . You may be better off booking a safari directly from Arusha .
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
Of course ! For example , as a New Zealander , while I was in the UK I decided to go to South America , and later to Central Asia . I needed vaccinations , obviously . It was as simple as going to the doctor . Of course , in many countries it will cost you money , and you 're right , it 's probably not covered by insurance . I 've also had new prescriptions filled and even gotten <URL> . Health systems are usually available to anyone , just what you end up paying may differ to the locals . And whether it 's covered by insurance is entirely dependent on your policy . ( from <URL> ) Whatever you do , if you have that yellow booklet of all your vaccinations , take that with you for them to sign and document , so that you have an official record of them . It 's come in handy for me on more than one occasion .
It 's hard to answer " how much " but I 'll try to provide some guidelines and background information . I have n't walked the Camino , though , so maybe some first hand information would be better . Along the path , you will go through a majority of small villages . In these villages , do not expect local people to know any other language than Spanish . Maybe people in charge of the Albergues may be able to speak some English or French . That said , in Spain the second language ( or third , depending on the zone ) taught in schools is English , followed by French . So people in their 20 's or 30 's should be able to help you out . Older people might have been taught some French , just Spanish , or did n't go to school ( post-war era was really rough in Spain ) . Also , in bigger cities along the path ( Pamplona/Iru ña , Logroño , Burgos , León or Santiago ) it should be easier to communicate in English . I think it 's a good idea to write a cheat sheet with basic things ( yes/no , how much is it ? , and so on ) and carry it with you , just in case you run out of batteries .
The only international student ID I am aware of is ISIC and in Poland you can get one in one of the places listed on their Polish web site : <URL> I do n't know if they will be willing to issue you with a card based on your American student ID though . It might depend on local branch managers interpretation . You should also check if you are entitled for travel discount , the rules seem to be different for different cities and modes of transport . It seems that the ISIC card is enough for trams in Wroclaw : <URL>
Earthquakes are notoriously hard to predict , for the US they are working on this an <URL> which <URL> the recent earthquake . Giving about ten seconds warning . Which I think may be less than you were looking for ... In general if you 're in an earthquake zone there 's always a ( remote ) chance of a sudden quake . There are minor earthquakes all the time , a sequence of minor earthquakes does not make the ' big one ' more likely . Arguably , smaller quakes relieve pressure and could make big quakes less common , but they could also move things in such a way that it does cause a bigger quake . People have been studying this for years and the best we 've got is ten seconds warning ... There are a few things you can do -- first find out if you 're in an earthquake zone , check the local government for wherever you are or here 's a <URL> of them . Second , know <URL> . Finally know that earthquakes are pretty scary and can be dangerous depending what you 're doing ( i.e. driving over a bridge ) but places that are in earthquake zones are designed to handle even relatively big quakes . Quakes on the scale of the Japanese one a few years ago are incredibly rare and honestly not really worth worrying about ( if it happens , it happens ) . You can track recent earthquakes on <URL> and , yes , there are apps for that -- here 's the <URL> . One thing you can watch for is earthquake caused tsunamis , ( or any tsunamis ) . These are ( mostly ) predictable , often more dangerous than the earthquake , and getting a warning will give you time to take action . Here 's the <URL> and there are apps for that as well but I 've no experience of them so I do n't want to recommend one at random . There is a page at <URL> that looks like it covers a lot of the above . I will say once again , earthquakes and other geological events are very hard to predict . Warnings often err on the side of caution , while some events still take everyone completely by surprise . It 's one of those things you should know how to handle if it happens , and then try and not worry about it to much . I say this as someone that lives less than half a kilometer away from a major fault-line . Quick Edit : The question was changed after I answered to be California specific , I 'm not going to trim the answer just to that since I think it 's generic enough to be applicable . The links I gave are still useful but for specific stuff consider the <URL> and the Southern California Earthquake Center ( <URL> ) . Edit 2 ( three months later ) : I just wanted to edit this to add a link to a upcoming tool called <URL> . It looks to have grown out of ShakeAlert which is linked in the other answer and offers personal and industrial early earthquake warning solutions ( it 's not clear from the site how much warning they can give ) .
Exactly what Mark Mayo said , just check Google next time or go to Delhi 's main bazaar and ask in any of the music instrument shops , most of them offer sitar lessons and they all provide sitars for it . Here is a one that was recommended by a fellow traveler when I mentioned this question over dinner : Dhingra Musicals Rajat is giving the lessons in a room just above his shop and it is located at Main Bazaar in Paharganj , shop No. 1086 e-mail : dhingra.sons@yahoo.co.in Cell : 9911043900 or 9818536666 One lesson is 700 Rp and if you want to take 10 , it will be 3750 Rp but you can , of course , <URL> . You can buy a small sitar for 2600 Rp and a big one for around 6500 Rp .
You can get an Oyster card from the airport . However , it 's not available on the trains yet . You 'll have to buy a ticket at the station ( there are machines on your right as you walk into the train station at the airport ) . If you want to go to Monument , you 'll only have to change once , and you wo n't need to buy a new ticket . Buy a ticket at Gatwick to Monument - it 'll be a Day Single ticket . Catch the train to London Bridge , and once there , go down to the tube station ( you 'll see signs , so many signs ) and get the Northern Line northbound on platform 1 to Bank . Bank and Monument are interlinked . From there you can walk to Old Billingsgate . However , if you prefer a scenic walk - and it probably wo n't take you any longer and will save you some cash , as you can see <URL> , London Bridge station is pretty close . If you buy a ticket there , you can exit the station and follow the signs to London Bridge , and walk across London Bridge . As you do so , look to your right and you 'll see the famous Tower Bridge as well as the Tower of London . It 's a pretty great walk .
end question
start question
What time do shops close in Taipei ?
Generally shopping malls in Taipei open by 11 AM but other shops open by 10am . It says here : <URL> Working hours department and other stores are 10:00 -9:30 pm ( some stores upto 22h ) This page says <URL> Shops are open daily 1000-2200 , while night markets stay open till 0100 and convenience shops are open 24 hours . As for shopping markets , including <URL> ( boai road ) , you can see here : <URL> <URL>
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
Typical " earliest checkin " times are between 12:00 and 16:00 - but if your concern is luggage , it 's not really relevant as pretty much all hostels and hotels offer to safely store your luggage for you before checkin and after checkout . Some Hostels additionally have personal lockers , since dormitories are more or less publically accessible , so you do n't want to leave valuables in them .
Yes , NSB offers ' minipris ' tickets starting as low as 249 NOK ( about 27 $ ) for any distance on the Norwegian railway network . They can be bought up to 90 days in advance , are only valid for the booked train and can not be changed or refunded . There are usually only a few tickets available in the cheapest allotment on each train and then the price increases based on demand . This is basically the same concept as ' advanced saver fare ' in the UK or ' Sparpreis ' tickets in Germany . Full fare tickets ( 865 NOK from Oslo to Bergen ) can be refunded without charge up to 24 hours before departure . If you are flying to Oslo Lufthavn and continue more or less immediately by train to Bergen , it might for some strange reason be cheaper to buy a through ticket from the airport to Bergen via Oslo S than just from Oslo S ( central station ) to Bergen . You should also be aware that most of Oslo S is closed in the first week of August . Trains between Oslo Lufthavn and Oslo S are replaced by buses .
Yes ! Google maps recently added the possibility of doing exactly this ! I noticed it for the first time today . When you query the route for a specific destination a new option shows up above the possible routes which allows you to choose to depart at a particular time or arrive at a particular time . In the later case it suggests the time that you should leave . The length of the drive is given as a range of times which can , admittedly , be pretty broad . I have <URL> , but it has not received an answer as of yet .
It 's fairly normal in many parts of Europe that regular non-entertainment , non-tourist oriented shops keep regular business hours and do n't open in the evening . This is especially true of smaller shops . The historical , economic and social reason is simple - shop-workers like to have a life . They do n't want to work evenings any more than you do , and most shop owners do n't want to pay staff to work evenings unless there is the trade to support it . Europeans have n't bought into the idea that ' shopping is entertainment ' , or that everyone should be able to buy plumbing supplies at 2am . it is n't a hard and fast rule . The bigger the city , and the bigger the store , the more likely it is to be open later . You will almost always find a big grocery store that opens well into the evening , and often bigger department stores on the outskirts of the town open late too . But smaller stores in the centre of town usually do n't . Restaurants , pubs , clubs etc. do of course open late . For essential services like a pharmacy there is usually one that is open late in most towns , on a rotating basis .
Banff is about <URL> , and is worth visiting if you 're not going to be back in Calgary anytime soon . The normal list of Calgary attractions : Calgary Zoo Canada Olympic Park Spruce Meadows Telus World of Science Fort Calgary More information : <URL>
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
It appears that Slovakia does not celebrate Mary 's Assumption , unlike Austria : <URL> <URL> So , it 's pretty safe to say that shops and museum will be open in Slovakia on the 15th of August .
Not my region ( lavender is mostly found in Provence , but there are occasional fields in other regions ) , so I need to rely on <URL> . Lavender flowers from late June to late August . It is typically harvested well before the flower wilts , because the heat makes the essence rise towards the flower 's glands , so the plant 's aroma becomes less strong as the summer goes by . The exact harvest time varies from region to region ( and of course with the year 's weather ) ; looking around on the Internet , I see dates ranging from mid-July to mid-August ; for example there are <URL> from the third Sunday in July to the 15th of August ; the harvest tends to be earlier in the Drôme region .
The 2nd of January is not a public holiday in Germany . Since it is a Saturday , most shops should be open with their Saturday opening hours . For some local shops , this may mean that they close relatively early . Having said that , some shops may be closed anyway " for holidays " . Also , the beginning of the year is a classical time for making an inventory . Some shops close for that as doing a rolling inventory is a bit complicated . So if you plan to visit some shop on the 2nd of January , you may want to call them in advance in order to verify that they will open on that day.g
Primanti brothers is an excellent and iconic sandwich place in Pittsburgh . <URL> has a list of notable mentions this enterprise has received . There are multiple locations in the city . <URL> is the second tallest university building in the world and houses 29 <URL> which are a must visit . The <URL> is an incline plan railroad first started in 1887 , scaling Mt.Washington and having a brilliant view of the Pittsburgh downtown and the confluence of the Allegheny , Ohio and the Monogahela rivers . If you are the type , there are a bunch of museums including The Carnegie Museum of Natural History , the Hienz History Center detailing the sports legacies of the Steelers and The Andy Warhol Museum ( Andy Warhol was a native of Pittsburgh and a leading figure in the pop art movement ) . Also , if you are interested in bridges , Pittsburgh has the world record for most bridges , I beleive 446 of them , beating Venice which was historically considered the City of Bridges . P.S. . This does not strictly come under the city of Pittsburgh , but an hour 's drive from the city is Frank Lloyd Wright 's famous <URL> .
There is , as of now , no general solution for any places , particularly since public transport data is not always freely available , <URL> . For places where public transport data is available , there are sites that let you do draw areas of what you can visit . <URL> has a decent number of cities from all over the world . Note that it may not have access to the complete public transport data ( see e.g. @Gagravarr 's comment ) . <URL> works for Germany , Switzerland , and Austria only , and is able to provide overlays of points of interest . It " knows " all public transport stops in these countries , as far as I can tell , and is thus quite reliable .
There is an official " minimum connecting time " for each airport . For international airports , there are usually separate " minimum connecting times " specified for domestic to domestic , domestic to international , international to domestic , and international to international . At larger airports there may even be longer minimum connecting times when you are changing airlines . Believe it or not , the data is not readily available online . Here are some places to find an official minimum connecting time , sorted in order from most authoritative to least authoritative : The official source is the IATA , which publishes the Airline Coding Directory , which costs hundreds of dollars . A much cheaper way to get the same data is to get the <URL> . Since minimum connecting times do n't change very often , I recommend just buying one copy of an outdated OAG Pocket Flight Guide on ebay for a couple of bucks . Call any airline involved in your itinerary . Tell them you would like to know the minimum connecting time for the airport in question . They 'll know exactly what you 're talking about and look it up for you . Airlines sometimes publish minimum connecting times on their websites or in their timetables , usually only useful when you are connecting on the same airline . But if you are connecting on the same airline , you do n't have to worry about this , because they will not book you on a connection which is shorter than the minimum connecting time . Remember that minimum connecting times are only estimates . Your first flight might be late . US Immigration may be overloaded . The airport train may break down . The security check in for the second flight may be really long . Due to all the steps involved , international to domestic transfers are always terrible and should be avoided if at all possible . You are literally better off transferring through a third country that has good international - > international connections ( Vancouver , Amsterdam , and London Heathrow Terminal 5 are all great for international to international ) if that allows you to enter the US at your final destination . So for example if you 're travelling from Europe to Detroit , you 're WAY better off changing planes in Amsterdam than at JFK . If you 're travelling from Seoul to San Diego , you 're WAY better off changing in Vancouver than SFO or LAX . Etc. . Like everything , " IT DEPENDS , " so please feel free to ask a more specific question -- at the very least we need to know what airport you 're connecting at and which airlines you 're using .
Web site of Istanbul city buses is <URL> ( in turkish ) . To the left , there is a form labelled " Hat Arama " . Typing 83O in this form , then clicking on " Saat " button below gives timetable for this line . Copy/paste the ( long ) URL to Google translation gives first departure from Taksim at 6:50 AM .
It really depends on the shop location and airport layout . If the duty-free shop is only in the international departures zone then they probably do n't set up a tax-in/tax-out process in their cash register . Therefore they have no process to sell with tax . If the shop is in a mixed departures zone or public space then they have a gate delivery process and sometimes do have a tax-in option at the register . Copenhagen airport does - I went to buy some small things there , they asked for passport and boarding pass , I told them where I was going and they just rang it up with Danish tax .
The airport itself is in the middle of nowhere , I do n't think there is any walkable attraction around but the public transport connections are very good . If you did not plan to go there during the next days and did not have to worry about a small kid , taking the train to the center of Amsterdam would be the obvious choice . I do n't know Hoofddorp itself but note that the area was a lake until the 19th century . The city was created from scratch after the land was reclaimed so you should not expect a typical historical Dutch town ( but that might be interesting in itself ) . The pumping stations and the countryside in the vicinity ( <URL> and the area around Buitenkaag and the <URL> ) are definitely worth a visit if you are interested in the history of the landscape but they are not so easily reachable and you would need more time than an evening to go there . As far as restaurants are concerned , iens.nl is probably the most popular website in the Netherlands . <URL>
There are actually a number of different questions there , and while I ca n't tackle all of them I can take a stab at a few ... In terms of getting into London , it depends which bit you want to go to . For South West London , which does contain a few of the Olympic venues , as well as a number of parks , your best bet is a local bus . The roads between Heathrow and London are pretty busy if you 're not allowed to use the Olympic lanes , but for getting to the parks / gardens / etc in SW London that should n't be an issue . If you want to get into the centre of London , you can either head into Paddington by train ( Heathrow Express is quick but expensive , Heathrow Connect is cheaper but slower ) , or take the Piccadilly Line ( Underground/Tube ) to a variety of places . The Piccadilly line is valid with a travel card , while the train needs a supplement ( Heathrow owns the spur of railway line so has it 's own fares ) . The tube takes a little longer , but is more frequent , and may well be better for you . Get a one day travel card ( either paper , or on an Oyster card , pros and cons for a single day ever visitor but that 's a different question ! ) , then hop onto the tube and visit wherever you want . Heathrow being busy wise - the busy bit is likely to be immigration , but the day before the opening ceremony I think that everyone who could work will be , so there hopefully wo n't be too long queues . If you stay airside in transit , you wo n't have to clear immigration , just a security check . However , with 10 hours I do n't think that 's an issue . Coming back , you say you 're on BA , so at Terminal 5 ( T5 ) you need to clear Conformance no later than 35 minutes minutes before your flight . Conformance is the passport/boarding card check before security , which may have a small queue ( depends ) . Most people will be coming into Heathrow that day , not going out , so I would n't expect this to be a big issue , but make sure you 're back from London in plenty of time ! Time the tube going in , then add 50 % more just to be sure , and aim to be back at T5 no less than an hour before and you ought to be fine . With a 10 hours layover , I do n't see why you could n't have a good 6 hours in the centre of London , or 7 in SW London . In terms of what you 'll be able to see , be that at the main stadium , the tail end of the Olympic Torch Relay , or one of the many other venues around London , I 'll leave someone else to answer !
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
end question
start question
How are customs duties handled by the Fedex " Baggage Free " service ?
While I could n't find anything that pertains strictly to FedEx , I found <URL> website which offers a similar service . Their terms seem to answers your questions . The luggage would go through customs just like any package being sent through the mail would be . Having the contents packed into a suitcase instead of a cardboard box makes little difference to them when screening . There would be no way to avoid a fee . Any fee incurred would be charged to you once your luggage arrives at it 's destination . Just like mailing a package , the customer must provide a list of everything contained in the suitcase . Any duties , taxes or other fees incurred during the customs inspection process will be passed on to the customer . To ensure an expedited customs clearance process and to minimize duties , taxes or other fees imposed by customs or similar authorities , customer is responsible for supplying Luggage Free ® with the complete contents of each Item in the shipment .
Since you 're connecting Qantas to Qantas , you 're entitled to use the <URL> . Basically : On checkin in Melbourne , you 'll get boarding passes for both flights and your bags will be checked straight through to SCL . ( This means they 'll be transferred through SYD for you , you do n't need to pick them up or anything . ) On arrival at SYD T3 , look for the Qantas Transfer Lounge at Gate 15 . From here you can take a Qantas bus directly to T1 . On arrival at T1 , go up to Departures and proceed straight to security ( yes , again ) and immigration . And yes , if Qantas sold you connecting tickets , 90 minutes is sufficient , although only barely ( IIRC that 's the minimum allowed ) . You should be OK if your flights are on time , but even if it comes in late , Qantas will put you on the next flight -- although for SCL , that might mean waiting a day .
Yes , there is a comprehensive list of what vaccinations are provided by the NHS . <URL> , which says : Free travel vaccinations The following travel vaccinations are usually available free on the NHS diphtheria , polio and tetanus ( combined booster ) typhoid hepatitis A -- including when combined with typhoid or hepatitis B cholera These vaccines are usually free because they protect against diseases thought to represent the greatest risk to public health if they were brought into the country . Interestingly it says " usually " rather than making a blanket statement . I 'm not sure if this is because the decision is made at an individual trust/surgery level , or if they are just covering themselves . Further down the page it also notes that : People in certain risk groups may be offered extra vaccines I personally found that when I attempted to get Typhoid/hep A from the NHS , my GP had a temporary staffing issue with regards to nurses , and as a result simply said " we 're not doing travel appointments " . Which was somewhat frustrating , although they did at least provide a list of private suppliers . At the time this answer was placed , the webpage stated it was last reviewed on 16/11/2015 I have no idea if this applies at all to the Scottish NHS .
Update : I did the trip ( August 2012 ) in the opposite direction . See below for details . It seems it can be done , but it ai n't no picknick . I 'm yet undecided as to whether I 'll do the trip , but the below seem to be the options . Note that the Scandinavia group ( though still running a website ) has n't operated at least since 2009 . Kampala to Lusaka by bus and train Kampala to Dar by bus , via Nairobi . 30 - 40 hours . Dar to Kapiri Mposhi ( ZM ) by train . ( There do n't seem to be scheduled direct busses , but I 'm not sure . ) 45 - 50 hours . Kapiri Mposhi to Lusaka by bus . 3 hours . That 's five travel days , with a night 's stopover to recover in Dar . Trains only go once a week ( on Friday ) . And a visa for Kenya is required . Kampala to Lusaka by bus Update : the road between Sumbawanga and Mbala is so bad , there is very little traffic and no public transport on this route . I updated the itinerary below . Kampala to Bukoba ( TZ ) by bus . 6 hours . Operator : Friends Safaris . Bukoba to Kigoma by bus . 15 - 17 hours . Kigoma to Mpanda by bus . 10 hours ? Mpanda to Sumbawanga by bus . 7 hours . Sumbawanga to Mbeya by bus . 7 hours . Mbeya to Tunduma ( ZM ) by bus . 2 hours . Tunduma to Lusaka by bus . 18 hours ? Six travel days , but sleeping in actual beds , whatever the state , every night . Annoyingly , not all connections are daily . Parts by ferry There 's a ferry running between Kigoma ( TZ ) and Mpulungu ( ZM ) on Lake Tanganyika . It takes a good two days , but only runs once every two weeks . It 's also theoretically possible to do Kampala to Mwanza ( TZ ) by boat on Lake Victoria . This takes about a day but is n't really practical for onwards travel . Update : Lusaka to Kampala ( August 2012 ) Day 1 Lusaka to Kapiri Mposhi by bus . Mazhandu is the better bus company , more reliable , cleaner , less crowded , but also less frequent . If you do n't want to have to take the 6am bus , but , say , the 8am , you have to go with Euro-Africa . Both charge 60000ZMK . Mazhandu takes reservations , you can pay in advance with Euro-Africa , but I 'm not convinced this constitutes a booking . So arrive in time . Kapiri Mposhi bus station to New Kapiri Mposhi train station by taxi . It 's walkable , at only a few kilometers , but the huge hassle at the bus station , mostly an overly busy tract of land , means there is something to say for taking a cab . Watch your stuff . 10000ZMK is reasonable for the trip . New Kapiri Mposhi to Mbeya by train . You can reserve the ticket at the TAZARA office on Lusaka , but there , they only sell tickets to Dar . The ticket needs to be picked up and paid for in New Kapiri Mposhi . 115000ZMK . Note that directly after crossing into Tanzania , paying in Zambian Kwacha on the train becomes difficult . You arrive on the next day , not unlikely a few hours late . You could take the train onwards to Dar , from where you can take a bus to Kampala which goes through Kenya ( Kampala coach ) or one which goes around lake Victoria directly to Uganda ( try Friends Safari , they should be able to hook you up , the contact details I had were soaked by ... a bucket of fish in one bus ' luggage rack ) . Or , from Dar , you could find your way to Mwanza , from where it 's possible to get on a cargo boat to Kampala or a bus or boat to Bukoba , from where you can connect to Kampala . If you are traveling through Mpanda ( like I did ) , you could get off the train at the border , in Tunduma . This , because traveling from Mbeya to Mpanda , you 'd be retracing your steps , going through Tunduma again . Getting off in Tunduma would save you perhaps a total of six hours , but requires you to stay in the somewhat dodgy border town . And getting on a bus toward Mpanda from Tunduma might be tricky . Day 3 The train from Kapiri Mposhi is an overnighter . In Mbeya , it 's possible to take a bus to Tabora , which is an awfully long ride , from where you could get to Mwanza , from where you could get to Kampala by cargo ship , or Bukoba by bus , from where you can get to Kampala by bus . I took a bus to Sumbawanga with Sumry . Up to Tunduma , the road is fine , but after that , it 's 225km of dirt road , all the way to Sumbawanga . The ride takes about 9 hours and costs 18000TZS . The bus has rows of 5 seats , is oversold , meaning some people have to stand , and every nook and cranny is stuffed with goods . I get a bottle of soda , a bottle of water and four biscuits from Sumry ( the only time this happened on the whole trip ) . But there are no rest stops , except for a break in the middle of nowhere where everyone went to pee or poo in the bushes . It 's possible to get to Mpanda from Mbeya straight , at 32000TZS , but that 's an extra 6-7 hours . If you break in Sumbawanga , stay at the lovely and affordable Moravian Church Conference Center ( no , I 'm not religious ) . Day 4 Get your ticket onwards as early as possible . On arrival , I got the last seat on the next day 's bus for Mpanda , at 14000TZS , from Sumry , for this 6.5 hour journey . Still , over half a dozen passengers had to stand . We stopped once for peeing in the bushes , once for
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
I would n't worry about it . Other than wikileaks activists , I 've never heard of anyone having the data on their electronic devices searched when entering/departing the U.S. or Europe . If it 's going to cause you anxiety and make you act strange , however , it would be better to delete the files just to give you peace of mind . This is not because there is any chance that the files would get you into trouble , but because acting strange could cause trouble .
The TSA actually has <URL> on their website : You may bring skydiving rigs with and without Automatic Activation Devices ( AAD ) as carry-on or checked luggage . Typically , a rig will move through the checked luggage or carry-on security screening process without needing physical inspection . However , TSA security officers have a duty to thoroughly inspect any item that raises suspicion . If security officers determine that they need to open a rig to inspect it , you must be present and will be allowed to assist . For this reason , we encourage skydivers to add at least 30 minutes to the airline 's recommended arrival window when they are traveling with their parachutes . Fox News also has <URL> which mentions it , along with pot-bellied pigs and monkeys ... : Skydivers need to add 30 minutes to their arrival time because although you can carry on your skydiving rigs , with and without Automatic Activation Devices ( AAD ) , security may choose to open a rig to inspect it . You must be present and will be allowed to assist with the inspection . Of course , given the pressurisation issues of a cabin , the speed of the plane , and other factors involved in an emergency , the odds of you being able to use it successfully are extremely ... small ...
Aside from a few hungry all-night clubbers and the odd loaded sushi fanatic rolling up in a cab , everybody else will be in the same boat as you , so you 're quite likely to get in if you arrive on the first train . Also , while for some reason the auctions get all the press , the main event at Tsukiji is actually eating the world 's best sushi . I 'm pretty sure you wo n't regret if you skip the auction entirely and go eat at Sushidai or Yamato Sushi instead . Turning up early for these is a good idea as well , they 're tiny and the queue to get in can be 1 hr plus if you get there late .
All passengers arriving in the US , regardless of whether they are connecting or not , need to collect their bags and pass through US Customs with them . If you have a connecting flight you can then drop your bags for the onwards flight . This is true both for domestic and international connections . Thus you will definitely have access to your bags in DFW , and will have time to put the duty free into them before re-checking . As you are connecting to an international destination you can also purchase Duty Free once you have cleared security in DFW for your flight to Canada , and then carry it on for your flight .
<URL> has some ideas , which I 've collected and grouped together below . It covers mainly respect , religion , clothing , and advice for women . Italy has a reputation for being warm and welcoming and Italians are uncommonly friendly and laid back , as well as very used to interacting with foreigners . If you are polite and civil you should have no problems , but do n't expect that the average Italian speaks or even understands English ( except for young people ) . Also , it is not typical in Italy for people to introduce themselves to newcomers : you will have to introduce yourself to others . It is not rude but is just not the custom . Italians greet friends with two light kisses on the cheek . Males do , too . To avoid ending up kissing on the lips note that you first move to the right ( kiss the other person on their left cheek ) and then to the left . Even if you 're merely acquaintances , this form of greeting is usual , both on arrival and departure . When groups are splitting up , expect big delays as everyone kisses everyone else . On first introduction a handshake is usual , although not necessarily the firm businesslike shake other nationalities may be used to . In general , when joining or leaving a group , you will shake hands individually with ( or kiss , depending on the level of familiarity ) each member of the group . In the South , it is considered bad luck for four people to shake hands ( two and two ) at the same time , forming a cross . You will see Italians , especially older ones , pull back from a handshake and wait to shake your hand until the other handshake is finished , to avoid this . If your cultural reserve makes you feel uncomfortable with this , do n't worry too much . The British in particular have a reputation for being reserved , so you can always play up to this expectation , and Italians will understand you do n't mean to be rude . Handshakes are also accepted greetings , and some Italians will kiss compatriots and offer their hand to the awkward Brit . To make friends , it 's a good idea to pay some compliments . Most Italians still live in their town of origin and feel far more strongly about their local area than they do about Italy in general . Tell them how beautiful their town/lake/village / church is and possibly add how much you prefer it to Rome/Milan/other Italian towns . Residents can be fonts of knowledge regarding their local monuments and history , and a few questions will often produce interesting stories . It 's important not to judge people in return by their choice of clothing . Styles do not necessarily carry the same connotations in Italy that they would in Britain or some other countries . A woman in fishnets , stilettos , miniskirt and full makeup at eight in the morning is probably just going to work in a bank . Almost all youths lounge about in skin-tight tee-shirts and casually-knotted knitwear ( and are very perplexed by the response they get when they take their sense of style and grooming to a less ' sophisticated ' climate ) . Sometimes , clothing rules are written . To visit a church or religious site you will need to cover yourself up ; no bare backs , chests , shoulders and sometimes no knees . Sometimes museums and other attractions can also be strict ; no bathing costumes , for example . If you want to visit a church or religious site it 's a good idea to take something to cover yourself up with ; for example a jumper or large scarf . Some churches supply cover-ups , such as sarongs are loaned to men with shorts so that they can modestly conceal their legs . Even where there are no written rules , it 's worth noting that bare chests and large expanses of sunburnt skin are unacceptable away from beaches or sunbathing areas , whatever the temperature is . Sexual harassment is not regarded in the same way in Italy as in English-speaking countries . The general atmosphere is pretty loose , and women should be prepared for attention . However , the tone of this ' attention ' is generally less aggressive than you may have read and seen in movies . Men may call out compliments such as ' bella ' ( beautiful ) or , if you are lucky , ' bellissima ' ( incredibly beautiful ) , as they did in the 1950s and 1960s . Bear in mind that this is still a macho country and one until recently led by a man ( Silvio Berlusconi ) who is famous for his associations with women . Men and women should therefore expect to hear people saying things that would be considered very offensive in other parts of Europe and North America . Anyway , culturally , these comments are not seen as harassment ; if you respond angrily , everyone will be very surprised . Whereas women of other nationalities may be used to telling strangers ( in no uncertain terms ) to shut up and go away , in Italy , the norm is to ignore the attention . In any case , responding in English or in imperfect Italian will only encourage more attention . D
I got an urgent-processing passport recently . The rules <URL> . I do n't think there 's an official cut-off time , but I showed up as early as I could in the morning just in case , recommend the same to you , since even when I showed up early there was already a line in the urgent category . You need proof of travel ( airline printout with reservation number is fine , with proof of payment ) . As the website notes , there are other things they may accept ( e.g. note on illness of family member ) . One important point : make sure that the people you list as references are ready to answer their phone ! The Passport Office will certainly call them , and in my case they called one of my references , he did n't pick up the phone in time , and I had to call the passport office to make them call again and they only did it hours later , it was very stressful . Make sure your references are literally waiting by the phone . To clarify , they 're pretty lax about the reason for urgent processing . It does n't need to be a true emergency/illness/etc . In my case the reason I needed urgent processing was embarassingly stupid and they did it anyway :) Proof of travel and payment for travel is the key . Also , needless to say , make sure you have the correct form filled out prior to arriving ( there are many different passport application forms ) , have your passport photos , etc. .
The charges ( " péage " in French ) are collected on site . On the roads subject to fees there are toll stations ( " gare de péage " ) where you will have to pay . There are two types of stations . In the first situation you have to pay a lump sum for using a given road section . In the second you get a ticket when you enter a section subject to fee . When you leave this section you will have to show your ticket and pay . If you enter your itinerary into the <URL> , you will see how much you will have to pay for your trip . You can pay by cash or by credit card . There are special lanes for people who want to pay by credit card . There is also a system called " Télépéage " . For that you will need a subscription . If you have it , you can use special lanes and drive through the toll stations without having to stop . The fees are then billed every month . This system only makes sense if you use these roads frequently .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
Normally I carry a small bag for the overhead compartment , but I was flying from Heathrow to NYC once and carrying only my baise en ville ... It caused me to get flagged up for further questioning by airline security ( it was a US carrier ) . They were very worried that no baggage was checked and I had no carry on . I was attending a party on short notice and fortunately had the invitation with me . I also explained that I was going to purchase some new clothes in Manhattan anyway ( I explained also that I was born there and knew my way around , plus hotel reservations at the Marquis ) . So they let me go ... After this , my advice if you are travelling ' conspicuously light ' is to have something on hand that demonstrates your itinerary and some plausible explanation for not carrying any change of clothes . I also switched to the Victorinox Altmont handbag after that incident , but this may be a spurious connection .
This happens quite often ( although not as often as it used to ) . Mine was lost probably around dozen times or so . Always made it to me though . You should file a written claim with the airline right at the baggage claim . This usually involves signing the custom forms for international flights ( the airline would clear the luggage through Customs for you ) . You should ask whether they will deliver it to your hotel/apartment/home , and insist they do ( they usually do , unless it is your fault , such as late checkin ) . Note that in some countries - Russia , for example - the airline can not clear Customs for you , so you would have to be at the airport anyway . In this case ask the airline to provide the transportation , or reimburse the transportation costs . You should receive : a ) the claim number and b ) the local phone number or web site URL where you can check the status of your bag . Some better airlines have an Android/iOS app which you can use to track the bag return . You should also ask if any compensation by the airline is due because of the delay - the rules are complex and may depend on origin-destination and connecting airlines , so self-research might be more difficult here . There are rules that the bag is considered lost ( and compensation due ) if it is not delivered within a specific number of days - even if it is found later - worth asking about this too . If you have travel insurance , call the insurance company and file a claim . They typically give you allowance for delayed luggage , usually $ 250-500 a day . Note that your spending has to be relevant to luggage loss ( i.e. not movie tickets ) , the reimbursement is not automatic - you have to submit your receipts for approval - and they do n't pay if the luggage is delayed on your return trip .
If you arrive early enough you can park at the visitor center . But it is often full before 10 am . So , if it is full , you 'll have to backtrack into town : The National Park Service has a <URL> which you may be able to use . Some of these are standalone park and ride facilities ; others are sections of hotel or local business parking lots , or adjacent to them . In these cases be sure to follow the Park &amp; Ride signs ( which unfortunately are fairly small and can be hard to spot ) and park in the marked areas . This map also shows where the <URL> stops . The Park &amp; Ride sign looks like this : There is also street parking on parts of Zion Park Blvd. , but do n't count on finding an open space .
Tipping is for the service , the menu price is for the food . If the service is bad , leave a small tip . This will show the wait person that you did n't forget to tip , but felt that their service was undeserving . On the converse , it is important not to leave a poor tip if the food was bad but the service was good . The wait staff can not make the food better and should not be punished for that . If this is the case , I would probably not go back to the restaurant again . I can get a better/different waitperson next time , but the number of chefs is much more limited .
<URL> . The key points were : Keep it in its box , safe and secure . ( It may actually make it clearer on an xray ) Avoid wrapping the box . Security may ask you to unwrap wrapped packages . Attach a small note - eg " Engagement ring inside , please be discreet " . Put it in a clean sock or similar , as an extra visual layer of protection , but will still be easily identifiable on an xray Put it in your carry-on ( you do n't want your checked luggage going missing with it ) Fill the rest of the bag with books , magazines etc - but NOT toiletries or other items that may prompt a security search Keep an eye on security , and if they stop your bag , try and distract her with a task while they check it ( get her to find something , or buy something ) In terms of dollar value being a problem , it may be worth keeping a receipt to show value in case of any doubt ( some countries limit the value of gifts or items you bring in ) .
From <URL> : Note : Passes can only be used at each attraction once . However , <URL> , for the Thames boat trip , <URL> is Make the most of your London Pass : Free 24 hour hop-on , hop-off cruise ticket worth over # 18 So for this attraction ( alone ) , you get as many trips as you like , within a single 24 hour period . So given that the Thames River Cruise is listed as one of the attractions , I 'd say the answer is no to both your questions .
Yes you will have to pay duty , as it is a new item that was purchased overseas . If you were at home , lost it and bought a new replacement , you will have paid Australian duty on that item , as the importer paid duty when it originally came from the factory ( and of course included the cost of that duty in the selling price you paid ) . In this case , if you buy it overseas Australia still wants its import duty . They do n't really care why you bought it again , only that duty is paid on products imported into the country . Your real question at this point ( and one likely only the insurance agency can answer ) is will your travel insurance provider pay both the replacement amount AND the subsequent duty you have to pay upon returning home , since they are both part of the " replacing the item " cost
end question
start question
Can a WiFi station be hand luggage ?
I think the answer is the same than for your other question . As WiFi stations are not listed in the <URL> you should be able of carrying one in your hand luggage . The only restriction that you should find is that it might be turned off for the entire flight .
Probably not ( but it does not hurt to ask ) . RyanAir as actually a Q/A section that answers the question " can i book a seat for my luggage " . If taken verbatim this seems to apply almost exclusively to musical instruments , you would need to ask if your CP30 falls under those exceptions . However they give maximum dimensions , so if your robot exceeds those you already have your answer . From <URL> . Sporting or musical equipment including but not limited to large fishing rods , golf clubs , bikes * ( bikes have a weight limit of 30 kilos ) , scooters , fencing equipment , boules , pole vaults , javelin , surfboards , bodyboards , snowboards and skis and large musical instruments including but not limited to harps , double bass and drums are inherently unsuitable for carriage by airlines operating fast turnarounds such as Ryanair . However , these items may be carried in the hold of the aircraft in addition to your personal checked baggage allowance up to a limit of 20 kilos per item . Fees apply , click here for details . Any sporting and musical item weighing over the 20 kilos allowance will be charged for the excess at the applicable excess baggage rate per kilo . Bicycles - MUST be contained in a protective box or protective bike bag in order to be accepted for travel . Electric bicycles can not be transported by plane . Smaller musical items such as a guitar , violin or viola which exceed our cabin baggage dimensions may be carried in the cabin if a seat for it has been reserved and the appropriate fare paid . There is no checked or cabin baggage allowance associated with the purchase of an extra seat . To book an extra seat for an item the word " ITEM SEAT " must be entered as the surname and " EXTRA " must be entered at the first name . EXTRA ITEM SEAT will then be displayed on the reservation and online boarding pass . The accompanying passenger 's travel document details must be entered during the online check - in process . Reserved seating in emergency rows 1,16 and 17 may not be purchased if you have purchased an extra seat for item/comfort . For health and safety reasons Ryanair does not accept for carriage any individual item exceeding 32 kilos or with combined dimensions of more than 81cms ( height ) , 119cms ( width ) and 119cms ( depth ) . This weight limit does not apply to mobility equipment .
Flights on UIA ( PS ) from TBS land at terminal D. Flights on BA to LHR depart from terminal D. PS and BA do have an interlining agreement * , so it should be possible to buy this as a single ticket . As stated by Roman R , the airport provides <URL> information which shows only a security control for transferring passengers and a transfer desk to collect onward boarding passes . BA also provide a <URL> and in most cases it is possible to use a mobile boarding pass . Alternatively it may be possible to check in online and print the BA boarding pass in advance . * Although expertflyer says BA and PS have an e-ticket interlining agreement with each other , I ca n't actually bring up any ticket other than YY coded ones . ( ps . this is/was the only BA tagged question with no answer ! )
I think the answer is the same than for your other question . As WiFi stations are not listed in the <URL> you should be able of carrying one in your hand luggage . The only restriction that you should find is that it might be turned off for the entire flight .
Since the other answers are nonspecific , I 'm going to answer myself by saying what happened on my trip this week . The truth seems to be " it depends on the airport " , so do n't count on it . The first thing is that Norwegian does n't appear to like gate-checking strollers , which was the point of the question . From Helsinki to Stockholm , the people at the bag drop wanted us to check it . They give you a plastic bag , which is probably as robust as a cheap duffel bag . From Stockholm to Helsinki , when we went to the bag drop they said " That 's a <URL> . You should just fold it up and put it in the overhead bin . " ( It fits comfortably in the bin . )
I 've lived in Saint-Petersburg ( and often used railroads ) , so this answer is based on my experience . I would recommend you not to sleep on a bench at a train station . There are waiting areas with chairs where you can spend time while waiting for your train . There might be more comfortable waiting areas at major train stations but you will have to pay money to stay there . I 've never checked how comfortable they are and how much you need to pay . The reasons not to sleep on a bench are : It could be against the rules of a train station . You could attract attention of police or train station workers because in many cases people who try to use benches at train stations for sleeping are homeless people . But at the same time you should not get into big trouble for doing this . One thing to remember : Make sure your belongings are safe , for example in a locker room or located next to you in a way that prevents anyone from accessing them without waking you up . Edit Here is the <URL> to the web site of the Moskovskiy train station . ( it is in Russian , please use an on-line translator ) . <URL> describes aforementioned waiting rooms . Briefly : The comfortable waiting room works 24/7 . The price to stay at night time ( 22:00 - 8:00 ) is 220 rubles for the first hour + 110 rubles every next hour . Storing packages or luggage : 150 rubles for one place ( not sure what does " one place " mean ) . On the photos I do not see beds there , but if you will decide to use this room you can always ask them if it is OK for you to lay down and sleep . Most likely it will not be a problem , considering that you are paying money . The location of this room is the second red rectangle on the map ( with two words written on it ) . The left entrance on the map is the entrance from the Vosstaniya square and it can be seen on the <URL> . But if you will arrive on the metro you most likely will enter the train station from the bottom entrance . The rectangle located in the top right corner is the waiting room which you can use for free . Another free waiting room is located on the second floor of the train station . You can get there from the main hall ( where the Monument of Peter the Great is located ) . Update # 2 Per <URL> you will be given a place to sleep for 700 rubles ( in the room with 4 beds , other options are available too ) . Maximum time to stay - 6 hours . I did not include prices in dollars because exchange rates could change . Update # 3 On the other note , while you are waiting for the train I would recommend you to explore the <URL> ( the Moskovskiy train terminal is located on the Vosstaniya square which is on the Nevskiy Prospekt ) - main street of the city . It is awesome and super beautiful , especially at night . It should be safe to walk there at night , because there are many people around .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
For EN 446 , no It 's a night train and they do not want people to get on in Potsdam . <URL> , and they responded . ( I had a typo in the train-number . ) <URL> Here 's a free translation to English : Me : Why ca n't I book EC446 from Cologne to Frankfurt/Oder online although it stops there ? DB : Do you mean EN 446 ? In Potsdam we do n't plan for people to get on , only off . That 's why this station can not be booked . Me : Yes , that one . Can I book from Frankfurt and get on in Potsdam anyway ? DB : No , because in Potsdam only deboardings are planned , not boardings ;-) Me : Are there bouncers ? Can I get on later in regular ICE trains ? For example if I have a ticket from Berlin to Cologne , can I get on in Spandau or Wolfsburg ? DB : Our people are on the platform . Of course you can get on later , but remember that seat reservations are forfeit after 15 minutes . So we can conclude that on this particular train , you can not do that . We do n't know why exactly , but if you try anyway and they catch you , they might not let you in . In general , yes You can always leave early or get on late in regular trains . Your tickets with Deutsche Bahn give you the right to be on the train ( or any train on a direct route ) between two stations . They frequently do not check tickets between two or more given stations . There is no way for the conductor to tell if you sat there for one station , two stations or longer if they are passing through the carriage for the first time to check tickets after the fourth station . It can also happen that you get never checked because you got on at the other end of the train and get off at the next station while they are still busy somewhere else . The above Twitter conversation confirms this personal experience . Bonus-Information : If that happens and your printed ticket does not get checked/clipped your City-Ticket in the destination might not be valid . You need to go get it stamped at the information desk in the destination station or local public transport might fine you for not having a ticket .
There are several . Two of the biggest are : <URL> <URL> Hope that helps ! Another trick I figured out in Kazakhstan is to search for foursquare.com posts about wifi - for example , I was wondering if Astana airport had free wifi , and indeed , <URL> confirmed that it did , and that it is fast ! :)
There are some bars in Key West that might give you a free drink for showing it , but no , it 's just a good joke .
The answer is yes , you can use a Samsung Galaxy S5 , S6 , or iPhone 6 , or other unlocked LTE phones , in South Korea . This is better than the old days when Korea 's adherence to the CDMA standard made it unlikely for outsiders to show up with a usable phone . I bought a SIM card from one of the several shops at Incheon International Airport ( ICN ) near Seoul . It cost about US $ 25 for 1 GB of data , and was active as soon as I plugged it in . So you do not need a service that lets you reserve a SIM card in advance , despite those services claiming you do need them or you 'll have to wait days to get activated . Maybe that was true in the past , but it is n't now . The SIM card sold in the airport was billed as valid for 15 days only , but in reality it worked until the 1 GB of data ran out ( I used it for about 19 days ) . Unfortunately they said it is not rechargeable .
( I 'm promoting and editing my comment to an answer since we have n't received anything better ) While I was there ( almost a week ) I found only one exchange place in Skopje which did n't list but did buy them when we asked about it ( no selling though ) . The rate was terrible , about 25 % below the official rate ! I was suggested to try the bus station but never tried as I managed to swap some cash with a traveller in my hostel heading the opposite way .
There is absolutely no problem with your wife following you in . It is normal when families are renting trucks and the weight inspectors and state troopers are well aware of it . The good news is the process is simple - just roll over a road , follow the stop sign and be on your way . You might be asked ( should you be over the weight ) if you are carrying household goods/personal items and then be politely nodded along . From my experience , Texas is especially strict about weight stations - but your mileage may vary :) depending on the inspector on duty . Good luck and have a safe trip !
It 's generally hard to find free WiFi in Germany ; it 's pretty much as you said and has something to do with the fact that the hotspot owner would be hold responsible for whatever his users or guests do or download on his network . There was a case about this a few years ago where some kid used his neighbors open wifi and downloaded movies or music - therefore most small shops , cafes or restaurants want to avoid any hassle with the law and rather do n't offer free WiFi . Some big cities have dedicated pages for wifi hotspots ( <URL> ) , and for some cities you can get apps that show you the open hotspots . You can sign up with Telecom who runs some hotspots in train stations , airports and big public places , but it 's rather expensive . If you stay longer in Germany you should get a 3g modem for your laptop , this would probably your cheapest and most reliable solution . If you travel via train you can at least charge your laptop in most long distance trains ; and some trains even offer <URL> account . Never seen any starbucks in germany - all the small bakeries are the places to go for fresh kuchen and coffee in the morning !
This trick is used by many Piece of Plastic on bottle before you close the cap That will prevent spills . After that put it in ziploc type plastic bag Check at home before you put it in luggage .
Technically no , practically speaking yes . Many of the coins look the same as US coins at a first glance , so careless clerks may accept them . I am in the US and often find myself with Canadian pennies and quarters which are very similar to the US counterparts . Having all the new coins in the US in recent years makes it even harder for people to tell the difference . Generally , vending machines will not accept them . It 's probably technically illegal to pass them off as US currency though , it might be classifiable as counterfeiting or fraud , but it happens all the time , intentional or not . EDIT : To summarize discussion in comments ... There may be stores near the border that officially accept CAD . That would be completely legitimate . I live in a border state but have never seen any . In all fairness I live 200 miles from the border but I do go near the border several times a year . I also have never specifically looked . It is probably limited to tourist locations . In reference to careless clerks , using CAD for an entire transaction is unlikely to work . 4 CAD quarters would be way less likely to work than 3 USD and 1 CAD . I 'm still skeptical on the vending machine front . I 've tried it without success and stopped trying , but maybe there are vending machines that would accept them . A whole discussion on how they work would probably be off-topic , but I think it has something to do with whether they detect a coin based on size or electrical resistance .
Which running event would that be ? I looked at several event calendars for Prague , and they all list only a marathon on May 11th . In any case , I would n't be concerned ; you 're in walking distance of lots of sights , and the metro should n't be affected by such events anyway .
AT&amp;T ca n't charge you to use WiFi . From the page you linked to , that 's talking about a service where you connect to WiFi somewhere ( like an airport ) that you might normally have to pay for , and the provider of that WiFi has partnered with AT&amp;T to allow AT&amp;T customers to log in and use the WiFi . This does not affect your ability to connect to any other public ( or private ) WiFi system , like a public library in London , your hotel in Hong Kong , or your friend 's house in Sydney . Phone company representatives are trained to encourage you to forget about actual public WiFi , and buy their expensive package to connect to their partners . There 's also the possibility that the customer representative you talked to is simply not technically knowledgeable and only knows about what they 've been told to say .
There is no particular restriction against as far as I have known and seen . I was once made to show it to the security inspector but I have traveled with one and similar items through dozens of countries without any issues . One other time , it was a audio-cable extension which got an extra look by security . They let it in anyway and I suspect it looks exactly the same as the lock wire in the x-ray .
Although originally advertised as such , to date there seem to be no luggage deposit service at Torino Porta Susa . Indeed <URL> return negative answers . <URL> <URL> : Piccola pecca : la stazione super tecnologica , celebrata come uno dei fiori all ' occhiello della città , non ha un deposito bagagli . E se si fa viva una viaggiatrice a chiedere lumi su come fare con zaini e valigie al seguito , la risposta di chi lavora in stazione è : " Non è previsto un deposito bagagli . Se proprio vi serve rivolgetevi a Porta Nuova " . <URL> in stating : There are no left luggage facilities at Milan Porta Garibaldi or at smaller stations including Florence Campo di Marte , Florence Rifredi , Rome Ostiense , Turin Porta Susa , Civitavecchia , San Remo , Livorno , Lucca , Siena ( though the nearby bus station has a facility ) , Montepulciano , Modena , Ravenna , Peschiera del Garda , Orvieto , Rimini , Brindisi , Lecce , Taranto , Reggio di Calabria , Salerno , Siracuse , Pompeii , Sorrento . <URL> The mayor replied stating that it 's a matter of security . I am somewhat doubtful since <URL>
end question
start question
How widely accepted are Euros in Hungary and how bad is the exchange rate practiced by shops/hotels ?
It might be possible to use only Euro , but as the others have already pointed out , the conversion rate is not very favourable . In the last year , new ticket vending machines have been installed in Budapest , which accept credit cards , but obviously not Euro banknotes so at least for public transport you will need either HUF or a credit card . So if you do n't want to use HUF , you might use your card ( depending on its conditions ) . Of course , if you want to go to small shops , restaurants etc you will most probably need HUF .
The only universally accepted currency in Hungary is the forint , but euros are easily exchanged ( at good exchange rates ) and may be accepted as is ( at poor exchange rates ) in larger restaurants , shops , etc. . So if you have to have cash in hand before you arrive , rupees & rarr ; euros & rarr ; forint is likely an OK way to go , although you will lose twice on the exchange . However , <URL> .
I ca n't find the reference now , but there was a great story that an organisation was testing security at airports around the world , by taking a suitcase to the airport and leaving it there , timing how long before it got stolen or identified . The exception was Johannesburg , where the car was hijacked enroute , and the suitcase never made it to the airport ;) Anyway ... Apparently in the last year , luggage theft has been reduced by 60 % : <URL> which bodes well . Baggage pilfering is down to 0.6 % of all bags that pass through the airport , which when you think about it is still bad , but if you lock your bags and use the bag wrapping machines available , it 'll deter the opportunistic thief .
Found <URL> about courier flights . It says that this option is less popular and hard to find than 10 years ago because of air-deliver industry grows from that time . Unlike the late 1990s and early 2000s , when these flights became popular , air cargo companies now have much larger fleets and more sophisticated handling services that work with customs agencies to speed deliveries . Also there is many security restrictions after 9/11 event , so you can be in trouble because you do n't know what exactly you have in your bag .
First of all , I want to note that my city ( Saint-Petersburg ) can be a great place at any time , if you have a good company for it :) Also , see the <URL> ( in English ) . Climate Weather in Saint-Petersburg is in somewhat similar to <URL> , but with some differences . Here the air humidity always over 80 % , and this is quite uncomfortable during temperature peaks , either during winter or summer . Also you should be prepared to any weather during the day - sometimes we have a rain on one side of the street , and sun on the other side . So a backpack with umbrella and clothes will be useful even during the summer . According this , the average temperatures are quite useless for you in our city - at the end of this April we had +15 ° C during the day , and -1 ° C during the night - and you should always remember about such strange behavior . I think this two sites can help you during your journey : <URL> - popular site with weather forecasts , but sometimes not very accurate . <URL> - much more scientific and accurate forecasts , but only for a week ahead . As for me , Saint-Petersburg has four general seasons : From the middle of January till the middle of April . The hardest time for anybody - snowy and rainy cold weather with long dark nights and short days . Even during spring snow and cold weather are still here . Cultural events are rare and not very popular among the tourists . Many people have their vacations outside the city and ( in general ) outside the country . From the middle of April till the middle of the July . The opposite side of the seasons - the greatest time during the year . Warm weather comes rapidly , the city became beautiful and much more friendly . Famous <URL> come to the city step by step , city birthday is celebrated , and many tourists are in the city . But be aware of poplar fluff - it can be annoying . From the middle of July till the middle of October . Personally my favorite time . Summer heat is going down , nights are still short and comfortable , tourists crowds are dissapearing from day to day . After fall came , parks and gardens are very beautiful . This time of year called <URL> in English , but in Ruassian it has other name : " Bab ` ye Leto " ( Woman 's summer ) , and the city is very romantic during this time of the year : From the middle of October till the middle of January . This time also is not for tourism in general . Some days are still warm and sunny , but from November 's start the only time you should visit St. Petersburg is a Christmas ( either Catolic or Orthodox Christianity ) and New Year . The city is very beautiful this time , and there are a lot of small and big fests you can visit : Amount of tourists I 'll use the same periods , so here we go : The late winter and early spring is not quite popular among the tourists , and I can understand them :) From the middle of April , as the weather is going be better , the tourist crowds are more and more huge , and in June we have a peek of them . For example , right now the weather is warm , no rain , no wind , temperature is near +23 ° C - most comfortable for anyone here . So this time city is quite popular among the tourists . From the middle of July the White Nights are fade away , tourist crowds are smaller and smaller , but the city are still beautiful , weather still good , with rare rains . Good time for a walk , sightseeing and so on . Visit Saint-Petersburg in late autumn and winter is very risky trip . I recommend you only the Christmas and New Year time - its beautiful here , and the temperature is n't very hard for you . Festivals / Cultural events Generally , you can find a cultural event at any day of year here . Some cinema fests , music tours , picture showings , book presentations , and so on , and so on . For example , this year : <URL> <URL> ( in Russian or German ) <URL> ( In Russian ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) This is only I found in a 5 minutes . Make a local contacts , get information , and welcome to Saint-Petersburg .
While I could n't find anything that pertains strictly to FedEx , I found <URL> website which offers a similar service . Their terms seem to answers your questions . The luggage would go through customs just like any package being sent through the mail would be . Having the contents packed into a suitcase instead of a cardboard box makes little difference to them when screening . There would be no way to avoid a fee . Any fee incurred would be charged to you once your luggage arrives at it 's destination . Just like mailing a package , the customer must provide a list of everything contained in the suitcase . Any duties , taxes or other fees incurred during the customs inspection process will be passed on to the customer . To ensure an expedited customs clearance process and to minimize duties , taxes or other fees imposed by customs or similar authorities , customer is responsible for supplying Luggage Free ® with the complete contents of each Item in the shipment .
The best way to leave a tip is in cash and prominently with a note . It 's best to tip once at the end of the stay . It makes it more convenient for you , and for them . Do n't worry about not getting the right person - it all averages out , and tips are frequently pooled anyway . However the rest of this answer applies if you are leaving tips daily . Do n't worry about the language issue . Most domestics know enough English to understand " this tip is for you " , and they are used to this so just leaving a note is enough , even if they ca n't read it . The real reason for the note is so that they can prove to management that they did n't steal the money . Again if you leave the tip at the end it 's obvious they were n't stealing , as you were n't taking any money left behind .
Although this year ( 2013 ) at the time of writing it appears that Nepal is raining heavily each and every day , virtually all day , my research shows that this is not typical . Typically during the monsoon season , it appears to rain for several hours each afternoon/evening and in fact if trekking is not your goal this seems to have the benefit of reducing dust/pollution in the cities , making the air much clearer . In addition the late monsoon season of August/September hosts most of Nepal 's cultural festivals , so although I have yet to visit , it appears that if culture experience rather than trekking is your goal the late Monsoon season may even be the very best time to visit Nepal . Some good information can be found on wikitravel as mentioned , and here as well : <URL>
India had tried to curb unauthorized trading between these countries by requesting they ban them . However , as of 2013 , <URL> . <URL> also banned it for similar reasons . However , as of January 2015 , the <URL> . So yes , that used to be the law , and it was to curb unauthorised trading , but that ban has now been lifted officially .
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
On kayak.com , once you 've searched for a flight , look down the left hand side of the search results . There 's a ' take off time " for your flight , and just below that , a link for " Show landing times " . Click that , and now you can filter your flights by arrival times .
I 'm in Tbilisi for the past few days , so could check it here . I asked around in a few currency exchange places - and none of them accept foreign coins , lira or otherwise . One of the places suggested that TBC bank branches may be able to exchange coins , however I did n't manage to get to a bank . My advice would be to take the lira coins with you and head straight for a bank branch . While the exchange rate is n't as favourable as in independent exchange centres , at least you may stand a better chance .
The situation in Indonesia is very similar to Malaysia , and I 'll quote <URL> , with minor tweaks when applicable : While you certainly can get drinks and food , most places that stay open do so a little discreetly , with curtains on the windows etc , and you 'll want to show respect to people who are fasting by not eating , drinking or smoking in public . The flip side of the coin is that once the time for buka puasa ( breaking the fast ) rolls around at sunset , many restaurants will be packed with Muslims , so you may actually want to beat the rush and grab your dinner before 6 ! Out in the nearly 100 % Muslim countryside , though , virtually everything will shut down during the day . The other travel glitch to beware of is that the end of Ramadan ( Eid ul-Fitr , Idulfitri , or Lebaran in Indonesian ) is the local equivalent of Christmas , when everybody takes time off and goes back to their families ( mudik ) . This means most transportation is fully booked for several days and even the traffic jams are legendary . Plan ahead so you can avoid travel at this time . Note that there 's significant regional variation though . As in Malaysia , the Chinese community does not observe Ramadan , so any local Chinatown is a good place to be based . In addition to mainly Hindu Bali , which you already noted , northern Sulawesi around <URL> is largely Christian and so are the Batak areas of northern Sumatra . I 'd aim to be in one of these areas for the Lebaran rush and the following week ; ideally Bali , since it 's also got the most to see and do . If you 're in a backpacker enclave like the <URL> , Ramadan will be more or less invisible .
The charges ( " péage " in French ) are collected on site . On the roads subject to fees there are toll stations ( " gare de péage " ) where you will have to pay . There are two types of stations . In the first situation you have to pay a lump sum for using a given road section . In the second you get a ticket when you enter a section subject to fee . When you leave this section you will have to show your ticket and pay . If you enter your itinerary into the <URL> , you will see how much you will have to pay for your trip . You can pay by cash or by credit card . There are special lanes for people who want to pay by credit card . There is also a system called " Télépéage " . For that you will need a subscription . If you have it , you can use special lanes and drive through the toll stations without having to stop . The fees are then billed every month . This system only makes sense if you use these roads frequently .
Try these in search engine in google : inurl : tripadvisor.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " inurl : booking.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " Add more keywords to place a specific country , etc. .
About 18 degrees Celsius , give or take : <URL> And that website seriously hurts my eyes . Somewhat more readable , but not giving historical details : <URL>
It would be wise to obtain MAD from an ATM after your arrive . Using your bank card at a local ATM will get the best exchange rates , minus a small fee . Some banks will refund this fee to you , so check the terms on your account . To find an ATM , check whether your card is part of the PLUS ( Visa ) network or the Cirrus ( MasterCard ) network . If it 's part of either of those , you can find ATMs online : PLUS Network : www.visa.com/atmlocator/ Cirrus Network : <URL> You 're unlikely to find EUR ATMs in Morocco or the United States . Your best bet would be a major bank in either country ( US banks will probably have a smaller spread ) . A bureau de change would also serve the same purpose . Be sure to compare rates before buying euros . Most will publish their rates online .
The trains have both heating systems for the winter and cooling systems for the summer . I have not ridden through the Rockies , but I have ridden in the Toronto-Ottawa-Montreal zone and never noticed temperature to be an issue . In the winter you will have your coat etc with you because you will need it for outside . You wo n't need to layer on sweaters or bring a blanket . Your coat will doubtless be hung up or be in an overhead compartment , and your hat , gloves and scarf with it . ( The <URL> says " You may want to bring a sweater as temperatures on the train may vary " which is a useful disclaimer . Sweater . Not sweater , jacket , and blanket . ) It 's possible that if you were right by the door , you might feel a draft while the train was at a station . I always take Via 1 and there are no seats by the door , just baggage compartments and the galley , so I ca n't speak to that . However the door is n't open much because the stations are hours apart . It 's also possible that if the sun was really streaming in through a window that you would feel hot . You could close the blinds if that happened .
In short , the weather is great , especially towards the end of that period . The hurricane season is over ( it lasts until mid November or so ) , and it 's not extremely hot &amp; humid like it can be in the summer . In Havana , average max temperatures are between 26 and 28 ° C ( 79-82 ° F ) , while average min temperatures are 19-20 ° C ( 66-68 ° F ) . <URL> . March and April are the months with the <URL> in Cuba ; January and February may see a bit more rain , but most of the time the weather is pleasant .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
end question
start question
Is it really necessary to have at least 60 minutes for a train connection ?
I have traveled in Norway on the train network and found it to be exceptionally punctual . However , the journey time from Trondheim to Oslo is around 7 hours , and you only need one small problem to crop up to end up having to pay for a extra segment to Kristiensand . The NSB website shows that it is a possible connection , but flags a warning . Looking at the online time table it seems that you are hoping to catch the 23.13 in Trondheim , for the overnight service , with the connection at 07.25 . My suggestion would to be on the safe side and aim for the connection at 11.01 . That would give you a few hours in Oslo to get breakfast . The standard price of the Oslo Kristiensand journey is 677kr , which is a lot to pay for if you miss the connection . Even though I think it is likely that you could make the earlier train , my personal thought is do n't risk it .
There are no international rules that forbid that . There are numerous stories on the Internet about people whose driver 's licenses were conficsated in EU countries . Here is an <URL> . It says : If you break French driving laws you can also have your UK driving licence confiscated by French Police . Similarly , in many countries , if a person is arrested , he or she might be asked to surrender his or her passport to get bail . Summary : I have no idea if it is legal for police to hold your driver 's license in Mexico . But it does n't violate any international laws .
Malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water that collects after monsoons . If you 're travelling during winter or summer in India , you do n't have to worry about this too much as the weather conditions are not conducive for these specific mosquitoes to breed . Locals usually do n't take malaria pills , instead preferring to sleep in mosquito nets that will prevent you from getting bitten regardless of what type of mosquito it is . Most mosquitoes you 'll get bitten by ( and you will ) are harmless . While most travellers going to take precautions against malaria , another mosquito vector-borne disease that is common in India is <URL> . Compared to malaria , dengue is a bigger threat as it 's harder to ' prevent ' ; there are no pills or vaccinations for it . Like malaria , this is also transmitted by a specific kind of mosquito ( aedes aegypti ) locally known as ' tiger mosquito ' as it has yellow-striped bands on its legs . If you see such a mosquito , then you know to be extra careful . City and town authorities take disease control seriously and frequent fumigation is carried out during monsoon season ; you will be fairly safe when if you 're stick mostly to cities when travelling . It helps to keep an eye on local newspapers if you 're travelling for longer periods for news about dengue outbreaks . Take extra precaution when you 're staying near places with stagnant pools of water , such as the nature reserves , backwater lagoons et al. . Long story short : Sleep in a mosquito net , or burn a ' <URL> ' ( ask for it at any convenience store ; it burns slowly and releases smoke fumes that keep mosquitoes away . Handier to carry around than a net , but fragile so no point buying in bulk as they will break when packed in bags ) . It will keep you safe from malaria/dengue-carrying mosquitoes and every other kind .
In most cases you can buy tickets before departure . But there can be problems during russian holidays . At least 4 dayly buses are available from different companies . And only one company offers you online booking : <URL>
Short Answer Yes ! Typically you will find a ticket conductor on-board who will check tickets in the start . Try to contact him beforehand in order to ensure risk free travel . The ticket conductor can help you purchase a ticket on-board the train . The ticket will be a little bit more expensive , but it is certainly possible . This is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , If you 're really in a hurry , you can buy your ticket on Deutsche Bahn 's trains . These tickets cost slightly more than conventional tickets bought before departure , but you can pay either in cash or by credit card . Certain special offers are not available on trains . NB : if buying a ticket worth over EUR 50 , you are required to present either your passport , national ID , or your BahnCard . One final tip : if travelling by local train or suburban rail services ( S-Bahn ) , you need to buy your ticket before boarding your train . As Deutsche Bahn mentions , make sure the train you are trying to board is not a local train ( you will have to pay a penalty fare if you are found in these without a ticket , costing double the ticket price or at least 40 EUR ) . The local trains include Interregio-Express , Regional-Express , Regionalbahn , S-Bahn . For the IC , ICE , ICN this would be completely valid and applicable and is a great lifesaver ! Trains with Reservations Some trains mandate reservations , such as the ICE-Sprinter or the <URL> . You must ask the ticket conductor for permission and ensure that there are empty seats on the train before getting comfortable in the train . Typically it 's easy to check if a seat has been reserved for someone . The reservation detail is shown by a display on top of the seat . All trains however do not offer this feature . This means that you can not go and grab a seat and wait for the train to start moving before you purchase the ticket from the ticket conductor . If empty seats are available on such a train and you are able to purchase a ticket ( along with a reservation ) , the ticket conductor will allow you to travel on the train . If you are found on a train which has mandatory reservation and has no empty seats , you will be asked to de-board on the next station . An ICE-Sprinter ( or CNL ) is never absolutely necessary in order to reach from Point A to Point B , but just in case you do take one of these trains , you want to avoid unnecessary problems . DB is not the only operator in Germany You must also take note that a significant portion of stock operated in Germany is not <URL> by Deutsche Bahn ( information provided by @Tor - EinarJarnbjo ) . Deutsche Bahn <URL> about 34,000 km of the 41,000 km of railway track in Germany , but many other private companies run their stock on this network as well . Alas , Deutsche Bahn does not operate most of the regional trains anymore in Germany , but most of the operators apply the same DB rules ( and in addition the regional " Verkehrsverbund " rules ) . There are <URL> ( in near future only four ) non-DB long distance services in Germany not operated by DB , but none of them stops at any airport . ( information provided by @neo )
If for some reason you ca n't do an online meeting or conference call , I have three tips for planning a business meeting ( not a conference or a vacation , where flight convenience is not the controlling factor ) . Know your group When dealing with business travel , it 's important to remember that the ticket price is not the only cost incurred ; time is also significant , especially in case of irregular operations . If you 're choosing between two airports , pick one that is a hub for whichever airline the most members of your group have frequent flyer elite status with . The elite status means less time waiting in line and priority service if something goes wrong , especially if one has a lounge membership . Ultra-discount airlines , on the other hand , are right out . Minimize connections Assuming your group is more concerned about time and convenience than about cost , I would argue the most important thing to avoid for an important business meeting is a connection . On any given flight , you could have weather delays , mechanical problems , missing crew members , air traffic congestion , and so on . When you have two flights , you double the number of times you can experience any of these things , and if they occur on your first segment , you could miss your second segment and end up delayed by hours or even days . On top of this , there is a risk of getting lost at the connection point ( for example , if there is a terminal change from one airline to a partner airline ) , and any checked bags are also far more likely to get misplaced or misrouted during a connection than on a nonstop . Each stop entails additional time , because your aircraft goes through an extra takeoff and landing cycle plus up to an hour for servicing ( cleaning , restocking , refueling , etc. ) . And depending on the route , the hub may be out of the way , forcing you to backtrack at least partially , which also eats up time ( Delta likes to send me BWI-ATL-MCI , almost half again as long as BWI-CVG-MCI would be ) . Nonstops do command a premium , but that 's because they 're often worth it for business travel . So I would aim for a city which has nonstop service from the airports where the various group members will be flying out of . Depending on the particular distribution of your group , this is most likely to be a relatively hub of one of the Big 3 ( United , Delta , American ) , but it could just as easily be a focus city for Southwest , which offers frequent nonstops from medium-sized cities . Most major airlines have an interactive route maps on their website , which will help you visualize service to and from a particular airport . Schedule well On the ground , most things will balance out . Every major airport will have some business class hotel nearby with adequate meeting facilities , mediocre food , and a free shuttle from the terminal . The cost will vary depending on the location , but the cost of the room rental will probably be far below the cost of the flights anyway . But schedule well , both time of year and time of day . San Francisco sees many fog delays in the summer , while Miami gets overwhelmed during winter holidays . Philadelphia gets delays for no good reason all the time . Flight delays cascade throughout the system and compound through the day : when an incoming flight is delayed , it is often delayed in departing again . The first flight of the day , having had all night to arrive and undergo maintenance , is far less likely to see a delay . So do n't schedule a dinner meeting in Chicago in August and expect to have everyone there on the dot .
It does vary a lot , depending on both the issuing and visited countries . For visiting Australia for an example , you either need your license to be in English , or have an IDP that translates it . There 's a much narrower list of countries for whom getting an Australian license does n't require a test , see <URL> for more details on those things . As an Australian , RACV maintain a <URL> of which countries need an IDP , which one 's it 's merely recommended for , and which ones you can just drive with your Australian license in . For some examples , UK does n't require it , USA recommends it , and UEA requires it . For how to get an IDP as an Australian , see <URL> . Also worth noting that they 're more commonly called an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) in official circles , rather than an International Driving License .
Yes , it is acceptable . However , it is etiquette that if the baby does start to make noise that you take it to the " deck " area beyond the doors ( where the bathrooms , telephone , vending machines , etc. ) are . This is the same protocol if you have to make or receive a telephone call , want to have a loud conversation with your seatmate , or do anything that might disturb other passengers . I should note that this has nothing to do with the green car -- the main cars nominally operate under these protocols , it 's just that the other passengers ( and conductors ) are less likely to enforce them .
Regarding Hostelworld their business model is not around getting payments for the hostels . They are basically an hostel directory , with some sugar on it ( they also collect user reviews and have a booking management system for the hostels ) . The value that you pay for reservation is actually earned by these websites as commission . In other words : the down-payment is not part of the hostel earnings at all . In fact , if you cancel , in most cases they keep the initial fee and the hostel looses the booking without any earning . Booking.com is a bit different as far as I know , but It 's not 100 % guaranteed that you actually pay the hostel through it . Even though full payment is available and even though you input your credit card . This will probably vary from hostel to hostel , but your credit card is collect and it may actually happen that you need to pay when arriving to the hostel . I once asked why and they told me at the hostel that they had access to my information but they did n't have any agreements with payment gateways . Another option would be to contact the hostel directly to know if they provide any means of secure payment in advance . In any case be very careful . Do n't give numbers over telephone line and assure yourself that whatever payment method alternative they give you is actually secure .
<URL> . He 's found that the UNWTO , World Tourism Organization has a good overview of them . Essentially , in 2012 , at the tail end of the tourism list is : Tuvalu - 1200 tourists Somalia - 500 tourists Nauru - 200 tourists Oddly , I tried to go to Nauru in 2006 , but could n't find flights that worked , so went to Tonga instead : /
Despite that fact that many websites claim to offer them , there is no such thing as an e-visa for Vietnam . However in addition to normal consulate-issues visas , there is a " Visa On Arrival " available , however this works differently to visa on arrival for most other countries . In order to obtain a VOA for Vietnam for need to first obtain an official invitation letter , and this service is available via countless websites - some of them legitimate , some of them less so . TripAdvisor has a very good article on <URL> and I would strongly suggest reading it before you decided if a visa on arrival is right for you , and before picking a company to arrange the invitation letter . Be very careful when picking a company to use for this service - many companies go to great lengths to try and mislead you during the process . For example , www.vietnamvisa.govt.vn appears to be a legitimate Vietnam Government website - except it 's not . The government domain is " gov.vn " - this website has nothing to do with the government and is trying to use a similar domain to mislead you .
Yes , it 's open ! The escalator between the terminal and the station is still not ready ( latest estimate " spring 2016 " ) , but <URL> that connect directly from the walkway between T1/T2 to the station .
Technically , you can . Practically , 4 hours is not that much time . If you 're admitted to the US on arrival , you go out through the immigration and customs , and its up to you whether to turn left ( connections ) or right ( exit ) , no-one forces you to go either way . I might have confused left and right , have n't been in LAX international arrivals for a while now . You 'll have to go through the security again if you exit ( if I remember correctly - you 'll have to go through the security either way , but I may be wrong on this ) . To answer your second question : the closest Apple Store is in <URL> , 10 minutes from LAX by cab . The <URL> , both along Sepulveda Blvd South , on your left when driving from the airport . If you 're into buying electronics , then right in between there 's <URL> . You can go to the mall , and walk your way back to Best Buy ( 10 minutes walk + stop at Fry 's , beware of the time though , people tend to spend hours at Fry 's :-) ) , and get a cab back ( call the cab ahead of time though ) .
As far as my understanding goes , you can visit Cuba , but you can not spend money there . The USA has an embargo on Cuba . <URL> . You need a license to actually participate in commerce ... but since that includes buying food you in essence can not go to Cuba . Licenses are released however . I have a Cuban uncle who goes back once a year . The valid reasons as per <URL> are : Professional journalists on assignment in Cuba Full-time professionals conducting academic research or attending professional conferences Persons on official government business The following are issued on a case by case basis : Persons visiting immediate family in Cuba Full-time graduate students conducting academic research to be counted toward a graduate degree Undergraduate or graduate students participating in a study abroad program of at least 10 weeks in length Professors/teachers employed at a US institution travelling to Cuba to teach Persons engaging in religious activities Freelance journalists Persons engaging in humanitarian projects Persons engaging in non-profit cultural exhibitions So in summary , is it open travel ? No . Is it possible ? Yes . The most common way around this that I have heard is " travel writers . "
You are not permitted to sit in a different cabin from your ticketed cabin unless you are moved there by the cabin crew ( say , there is a medical problem and extra seats are needed mid-flight -- though you 'd still probably get reseated in crew seats instead of in business class ) . " Self-upgraders " will be discovered very quickly and removed as a matter of policy on any airline . Why not allow people to move to empty seats ? One might as well ask why not allow people at the gate to fill empty seats in the economy cabin . The plane is leaving one way or the other , so those seats would be " wasted " too . But the airline must protect its revenue and minimize its costs . If it tolerated people moving up without paying , it would both disincent people from purchasing premium fares ( whether revenue or award ) , and also incur costs that it would not otherwise have had to bear . Seats on an airplane are priced according to how the airline believes it can make a profit , taking many factors into consideration . Premium cabin prices reflect the premium people ( or rather more often , their employers ) are willing to pay for a more comfortable flight and a more exclusive cabin , as well as the higher costs of operating : There are fewer seats for the given space , so each seat must cost more to make the equivalent revenue There is a higher grade of service in those cabins ; for example , there is a higher ratio of flight attendants to passengers , and the flight attendants have more responsibilities ( e.g. addressing passengers by name , distributing pajamas ) . Flight attendants are expensive . The amenities in premium cabins are more expensive , not only to purchase but to prepare . In economy , your meal probably comes on trays that come straight out of the oven . In international first , you would expect your meal to be plated , which takes much more time and effort . It is already the case that when the economy cabin is full , gate agents will upgrade people who are high status frequent flyers and/or on very high fare tickets , according to each airline 's rules and procedures ( operational upgrades ) . American , Delta , and United indeed offer " automatic " upgrades to their elite frequent flyers on domestic flights . But even in these cases , some seats may go out empty . For example , the airline may be unable to cater enough meals for a full premium cabin , and the airline would not want to risk upsetting a paying customer by failing to deliver the promised level of service .
The ' Seaman 's Book ' provides a travel document that can be used instead of a passport in some cases . In order to be used as a passport , the situation must be appropriate ( i.e. , joining a vessel ) and the book itself must contain all of the information that a passport would normally contain . But the big selling point of having a Seaman 's Book , comes when it is presented by a person who would ordinarily require a visa to enter the country . If the seaman can show that he is joining a vessel then the border official can waive the visa requirement . Example : A Nigerian national with a Seaman 's Book is joining a vessel currently anchored in Marseille and due to sail somewhere else . He can present his Nigerian passport along with his Seaman 's Book and enter the zone without having to get a Schengen visa . This will work in every country that is a signatory to the <URL> ( and in limited circumstances <URL> ) . The linked site contains all the provisions and details . So they are a great thing to have , but hard to get .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
There is a long-standing principle at UKVI to avoid stipulating that a given piece of evidence is mandatory ; it means the guidelines are purposefully vague . As spelled out in the <URL> , the only mandatory requirements are ... A ' valid ' passport or some other ' valid ' identity document ( but ' valid ' is vague ) The fee From that law they created a policy that the passport be current with a blank page and that it be accompanied by a photo . Everything else is expressed with modal verbs , most often " should " and " may " . Having said all of that , let 's look at your question ... My company 's HR are ready to give employment proof , but not the info related to time off work . Is it mandatory ? While not mandatory it is a great idea to include something that shows you have accrued enough holiday for your visit . Lots of people on the Indian subcontinent interpret this as a No Objection Certificate ( NOC ) or a variant document and it has vectored on the net as a requirement . Your employment contract should spell out your holiday entitlement , include it . Your salary slips should list your unspent entitlement , include them . If they do not show your unspent entitlement , find something else that does . If the above will not work for one reason or another , you can make a personal attestation about your unspent entitlement . You need good credibility in order for that to work and you will need to explain why that info is n't in any of your employment documents . I heard that it is needed only for people who are working in government sectors . Kindly confirm this too . There is no reason to confirm or deny it ; as explained , the concept of a requirement is simply one that has vectored on the net . Any other sort of evidence is fine . Note that NOC 's are fairly unique to the subcontinent anyway . We can take a look at the <URL> itself . Examine the screen shot ... <URL> Based on this , it is safe to conclude that your company is providing what UKVI wants to see . And finally , from your question : " ... confirming that I have been give time off work and asked me to state whether this time off is paid or unpaid ... " This appears to be something you added independently ( probably somewhere on the net having to do with Indian nationals ) ; sometimes it 's great to include that information , but it is absolutely not mandatory .
Mileage varies related to the traveler 's nationality , but I entered Armenia from Georgia just three weeks ago and got a 6 euro visa at the border without any problems . I was traveling on a Dutch passport . Danes and Germans crossing the border at the same time as me also easily got their visa at the border for the low price of 6 euros . The visa fee was payable in Armenian currency only . No ATMs were available , but a change machine was . I was asked how long i wanted to stay , said about two weeks and got 20 days . I feel I could have gotten longer if I 'd ask . The crossing might have been at Bagramashen , but I 'm not totally sure anymore . I took a regular marshrutka from Tbilisi train station to Yerevan .
I would say it is likely possible but it is fairly short . As you say you will need to leave the secure area of the airport , collect your luggage and go through luggage drop off , passport control and security . Waiting for your luggage should not take too much time , but 10 minutes is the least to expect . Most of the time non of the lines on the way in will be long , but three times 10 minutes will eat up most of your time . And it is not unlikely there are more delays when things go wrong . Add the walking times , and you are almost out of time without any delays . EasyJet can be late , they do not promise to get you there on the minute , just to get you there . With the later flight out of Schiphol , a delay of a few hours will not be a problem , but with the early flight a 30 minute delay can be too much . I would go for the later flight , 6 hours in Schiphol is not too bad . If it is more than 6 hours you might consider going out of the airport if your incomming flight is on time . I guess KLM city hopper will not allow you to change to a later flight without paying costs if the EasyJet flight is late . If the tickets are cheap you could buy a ticket for both the early and a later flight .
end question
start question
Is it better to travel by train or plane when there is risk of snow in the eastern US ?
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
<URL> has the experimental Maglev train . For fairly obvious reasons , they generally do n't have passengers - although there 's a practical section for it . Currently it 's about 18.4 km long and will become part of the Chūō Shinkansen connecting Tokyo , Nagoya , and Osaka - but at present it 's being extended to 42.8 km to be finished by 2013/2014 , at which point the 9 trillion Yen ( !!!! ) project to build the new fast Shinkansen will kick off ( it got approved earlier this year ) . Citizens of Yamanashi Prefecture and government officials in the area are eligible for free rides , and over 200,000 people have taken part thus far . <URL> has a population of around 860,000 - so that 's quite an impressive number of the city . HOWEVER , for paying customers ( unless you 're willing to settle in Yamanashi for a while and become a resident ! ) rides wo n't restart on the test track until they near completion of this current upgrade - likely on weekends and during the summer holiday time in 2013 or later ( if it runs over schedule ) , according to <URL> . So short answer , unless you move there or join the government , you 're going to have to wait a couple of years . And now you 've got me considering a trip to Japan in 2013 ;)
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
Picking Dawson City as a representative worst case , you can see from <URL> and <URL> that it can snow a bit as early as late August , but the average snowfall for the entire month of September is less than 2 inches . From experience not too far south of there I can tell you it is generally warm enough during the day in September that any snow is unlikely to remain on the ground very long . A little bit of snow is not very dangerous in any case as long as the vehicle has half-way reasonable tires ( I.e. not big , wide slicks ) . It seems like the probability of a problem is pretty low .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
There is no nationally , or even locally mandated standard . I 've certainly seen friends have no issues using both Passports and Drivers Licenses from their home country . I 've also seen people have issues - especially when their ID is written in a non-latin script , or when they have a DOB which can be misread by using a non-American date ordering scheme , ( i.e. someone born on August the 10th , 1992 , would have their BOD listed as 8/10/92 here in the states , and would be of legal drinking age . If their ID instead reads 10/8/92 a not particularly sharp waiter may give you a hard time - admittedly , an extreme edge case . ) Realistically , there 's no single answer that can be provided here however , because there is no standard for what 's accepted . At the end of the day , the acceptability of your proof of age is up to the merchant with whom you do business to evaluate . You 'll have an easier time in more cosmopolitan cities like New York , but realistically , you ca n't do much better than your Passport , and I 've almost never seen an issue with one .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
A two-year tour of <URL> ( 962 places ) is now available , offered by a British luxury company . By the way , it costs about 1 million pounds . It claims to cover all the sites if they are safely accessible . <URL> lists some of the stops .
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
There 's really two different issues here - that of pre-selecting seats , and that of how check-in works with multi-airline itineraries . As far as pre-selecting seats , every airline has different policies . Specifically for SAS , they allow you to pre-select seats only if you has elite status with their frequent flyer program ( Eurobonus Gold ) , or on flights to/from the US regardless of status . Some other airlines will allow it at time of booking , some only allow it if you pay an extra fee , etc. . The specific airlines website should give you the details there . The second issue is checking in with a single connecting itinerary with multiple airlines . Again the exact rules will vary here depending on the airlines involved , but in general you need to check-in with the airline that is flying the first leg of your journey - in this case , SAS . Depending on the agreements between the airlines they may be able to also check you in for any additional flights with other airlines , or they may not be able to - in which case you would normally do so once you arrive at the transfer airport . In these cases seat selection again depends on the specific carriers . eg , if you were flying Emirates followed by SAS then within 22 hours of the flight you would be able to go to the SAS website , select " check-in " , and whilst it will not actually allow you to checkin ( as the first leg is with EK ) it WILL allow you to select seats ! In short , there is no simple or single answer to what you 're asking . Most airlines will publicize their rules for pre-selecting seats on their website - but be sure to read the full conditions to make sure that they apply to you , without needing status or paying any additional fees . Specifically for Cathay Pacific , they DO allow you to select seats in advance , regardless of status . If the website/travel agent you are booking on/with does n't give you the option , you can go to their website , enter your surname and booking number , and select your seats free of charge . British Airways on the other hand only allows you to select seats at the time of check-in ( up to 24 hours before your flight ) .
Yes , it is acceptable . However , it is etiquette that if the baby does start to make noise that you take it to the " deck " area beyond the doors ( where the bathrooms , telephone , vending machines , etc. ) are . This is the same protocol if you have to make or receive a telephone call , want to have a loud conversation with your seatmate , or do anything that might disturb other passengers . I should note that this has nothing to do with the green car -- the main cars nominally operate under these protocols , it 's just that the other passengers ( and conductors ) are less likely to enforce them .
Egypt , as like much of North Africa and parts of the Middle East , is volatile . <URL> of the US has a comprehensive website detailing the latest information on the country . It points out that while crime is relatively low , there has of course been several incidents of protests , riots and political upheaval over the past year . In the end , it is always going to be a gut feel thing . Many tour companies are offering 2 for 1 deals to get people to return to Egypt . People point out that apart from an <URL> , the violence has largely not targeted foreigners . Anecdotal information from friends who have been since the uprising say that they felt entirely safe . Tour companies are going to have the latest information and will know which areas to avoid . The election may change things dramatically , but given it looks to be the first ' free ' elections in decades , it may be a good thing , with celebrations rather than protests . If you 're not going anyway until 2012 , perhaps wait . I booked a tour over Christmas 4 years ago with 2 weeks notice , and given the situation , you should n't have a problem finding a tour or flights around then . In the end , as the state department website says , " There is nobody better at protecting you than yourself . " . Be careful , keep informed , be safe .
Bride kidnapping , in general , is specific to the Kazakh community . It 's not what Western communities would imagine of kidnapping , in that <URL> and indeed ( and terribly ) <URL> <URL> via social isolation and exclusion . It 's largely ritualized and <URL> : In the case of non-consensual bride kidnapping , a woman is physically kidnapped by a man she hardly knows or by a man she is clearly not interested in . As such you and your travelling companions should n't be targets for bride kidnapping . However there are <URL> , despite <URL> <URL> to the contrary . That would be of more concern , but it seems that occurrences are no more likely in the Kazakh parts of Mongolia as opposed to any other part of the country , or indeed other countries .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
Yes , you can travel with regional trains . It takes a little over 4 hours plus the connection times , and there are no good connections , so count on 5 to 6 hours for the journey . The bus takes 4 -- 5 hours and is cheaper than regional trains . It is n't easy to find the train times or prices because online planners tend to go for the fastest journey only . There 's an option to avoid ICE on the <URL> , which avoids other high-speed trains such as Thalys ( currently -- it did n't in the past ) . If you ca n't get a list of local trains connections , look up Bruxelles -- Lille , Lille -- Amiens and Amiens -- Paris separately . As of today , you can break your journey as follows : Paris -- Amiens : 21.60 $ , lasts 66min to 99min , about 1 train per hour . Amiens-Lille Flandres : 21.10 $ , lasts 80min , about 1 train per hour . Lille Flandres -- Bruxelles with a change at Tournai : 22.60 $ , lasts 102min , about 1 train per hour . That 's a total of 65.30 $ . It should be a little less if you go to a train station and buy a single ticket ( I do n't think you can buy that ticket online ) . In comparison , a last minute Thalys ticket costs 99 $ and the journey is only 82min . If I elect to travel one day later I find seats for 69 $ ( obviously this depends on how full the trains are ) . A last minute ticket on <URL> costs 39 $ for a 4-hour journey or 29 $ for a 5-hour journey , with no break of journey either way . So regional trains do n't seem like a good compromise between price , comfort and speed .
I can make no subjective comment as could one who lives in the region . If you are a US Citizen , the <URL> ( what a mouthful ) published , in April of 2015 , the <URL> which covers everything from what it calls terrorism to petty crime . This report is , of course , aimed for the US Citizen traveling to Israel , Jerusalem and the Gaza strip . A non-government page to visit for example , might be <URL> . Even though it is created and run by a single individual , the guidance is helpful , appears to be from someone who actually lives in Jerusalem , and is not all positive ( or negative ) . Carefully reading through both sites , IMO , you 're as safe ( or not ) in Jerusalem as anywhere else in the world , barring of course , actual war zones .
end question
start question
What happens to Expedia Pay later non-refundable booking in case of no show ?
There are many ways to process a credit or debit card transaction . One of them is an offline transaction without the customer being present . For this , the 16-digit number plus the CVV are sufficient and the SecurCode system is not used . So you can be charged in such a case . Also , Expedia or the hotel may pre-authorize the charge before your arrival . In such a case , you will not be charged ahead of time , but the hotel is sure that the charge can be made . Again , the CC number and the CVV are sufficient for this .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
It 'll be up to the hotel and sometimes , the discretion of the person on the front desk . Sure , sometimes your name is enough . Sometimes showing the app is enough ( and should be ) . But there 's that small chance you 'll get that one clerk who wants everything done by the book and insists on seeing your printed reservation . So if you want to avoid hassles , you 'll print it out and bring it along .
This happens quite often ( although not as often as it used to ) . Mine was lost probably around dozen times or so . Always made it to me though . You should file a written claim with the airline right at the baggage claim . This usually involves signing the custom forms for international flights ( the airline would clear the luggage through Customs for you ) . You should ask whether they will deliver it to your hotel/apartment/home , and insist they do ( they usually do , unless it is your fault , such as late checkin ) . Note that in some countries - Russia , for example - the airline can not clear Customs for you , so you would have to be at the airport anyway . In this case ask the airline to provide the transportation , or reimburse the transportation costs . You should receive : a ) the claim number and b ) the local phone number or web site URL where you can check the status of your bag . Some better airlines have an Android/iOS app which you can use to track the bag return . You should also ask if any compensation by the airline is due because of the delay - the rules are complex and may depend on origin-destination and connecting airlines , so self-research might be more difficult here . There are rules that the bag is considered lost ( and compensation due ) if it is not delivered within a specific number of days - even if it is found later - worth asking about this too . If you have travel insurance , call the insurance company and file a claim . They typically give you allowance for delayed luggage , usually $ 250-500 a day . Note that your spending has to be relevant to luggage loss ( i.e. not movie tickets ) , the reimbursement is not automatic - you have to submit your receipts for approval - and they do n't pay if the luggage is delayed on your return trip .
I broke down and traveled to to the bus station . They were able to process my refund at the ticket window . I needed to provide ( 1 ) photo id and the ( 2 ) reference number from the confirmation e-mail . The clerk printed the actual ticket , then I provided two signatures to complete the refund . ( I did n't realize a Greyhound bus ticket is NOT a reservation for a seat on the bus on that day like an airline ticket . Even though the confirmation e-mail lists the date and time of the departure and arrival , the ticket was valid for 1 year . I was thinking I need to get the refund before the scheduled date . According to the clerk , I could have processed the refund or used the bus ticket months after I originally planned to leave . )
They are worthless . Happened to me some years ago , drove to Miami , walked in the airport , just to find the counters closed ; at the neighboring counter they told me that they filed for bankruptcy this morning . I had to buy a new ticket from another airline ( for an arm and a leg , of course ) . Note that if you bought the ticket through a provider ( like kayak , expedia , or travelocity , etc. ) they are probably responsible for the price . In my case , they refunded the original price without discussion . They do not pay the newer , higher price ticket that was needed , though .
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
As someone that had first-hand experience of this ( ie , I did exactly the same thing ! ) I can tell you that it 's fairly simple . Once your temporary license expired you are " unlicensed " - you will have been in the state long enough that technically your home-country license is no longer valid in California , and your California license is expired . Thankfully there 's a simple solution - just go into the DMV , let them know what happened , and they will give you a new temporary license for another 60 days . No further written test required . I 'm sure if you do this too many times they will eventually take issue with it , but I had no problems doing it once . When you come to do the driving test you 'll likely find it very easy . They seem to go easy on people who have had their license in a foreign country - I did n't even have to do a reverse park as a part of mine despite that being a mandatory part .
This can not be answered in absolute terms since the availability of tickets is not always given . Currently , for example , <URL> . There is , to my knowledge , no limitations who can get tickets to these shows , as long as they are available at all . As Ilya noted , <URL> in late 2012 how you can get standby-tickets by waiting outside of the studio .
As Mark mentioned it does depend on the airport and country , but as a general rule , the inspectors are only required to repack your items back into the suitcase they came out of . The plastic wrap is a disposable item and even if they slowly and carefully unwrapped it , it would be near impossible to rewrap . So plastic wrap would be tossed by any inspection after you have checked your bags . If you have something like a cardboard box and the plastic wrap was keeping it shut , then the inspector would likely use tape to close the box after completing the inspection .
I 've had a malfunctioning barcode passport ( those pre-biometric hologrammed ones ) for 10 years . Basically ever since I first got the passport I was unable to successfully scan it anywhere I went . During that timespan I travelled many countries , including and not limited to the US , India and Australia , and it never worked . What happens in case the automatic scan does n't work is that the customs officer tries scanning it again and when that fails too they enter the passport number manually in the system . That 's it . I would say you have nothing to worry about . Unless there are valid reasons for not letting you in the country you should be fine . In case you just want to know if the RFID works you can try reading it using a dedicated reader ( or a compatible mobile phone ) . <URL> but at least you 'll know if the chip responds .
From Easyjet on <URL> ' If you 've already selected seats , these will automatically be transferred to your new flight so no worries . ( 1/2 ) If the seats you chose are no longer available , we 'll allocate the closest match we can find . Any issue , please DM . Anna <URL> Hope this helps .
single adult women can apply individually for Turkish visa . Turkey is a Muslim country and its requirement is different from most Muslim countries like Saudi Arabia where women can not apply individually . Turkey nowadays adapting same visa procedure like most EU countries do . Answer to your second question a friend of mine last year application was rejected from Karachi and he said they placed a consulate stamp and date on the very last page so presumably they would stamp your passport . however obtaining a Turkish visa is a lot easier compare to western countries . Just comply with the requirements and you will have good chance getting the visa
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
The exact rules will actually vary slightly depending on the city pairs . On the Malaysia Airlines website , on the Review Your Itinerary and Price page there 's a small link at the top for View Fare Rules . You can use that to check exactly what the rules would be for an given ticket you were thinking of buying As a general rule though , mhbasic is the least flexible , then mhsmart , then mhflex . Looking at a random mhbasic fare , I see things in the fare rules like : changes any time - charge gbp 100.00 for reissue/revalidation changes ticket reissue - rebooking / rerouting after ticketing - the above charge plus fare difference ticket is non-refundable in case of cancel/refund So for that one , you can make changes to it for a # 100 fee plus any extra fare costs at the time of the change , but you ca n't have any money back if you cancel . . Then looking at a random mhflex fare , I see things in the fare rules like : changes ticket reissue - rebooking / rerouting after ticketing permitted with no fees plus fare difference cancellations permitted for cancel/refund . admin fee applies . after departure - cancellations permitted for cancel/refund . note - deduct the applicable one way fare in same or higher rbd and cancellation fee - if any - and refund the balance if any . So , on that particular ticket , the mhflex ticket is refundable before departure for a small fee , and after departure less the cost of a one-way for what you 've already used ( which may mean there 's nothing to refund ) . There is no universal answer , it 'll depend on the city pairs , but mhflex is likely to be the one you need for full flexibility and near-refundable-ness . Check the fare rules for the full details / speak to a travel agent who can understand them and explain them to you !
I would say that you do n't have to negotiate a price - usually driver just tell the price and you accept it :) However , you may get a " bonus " as a foreigner , but I do n't expect it to be more then 20-40 % . Regarding sample price for 100 km . According to my latest experience ( and google result ) , MastaBaba is more-or-less right - ~ 30 euros for bus for 10-15 people .
Because it would be ridiculously expensive . Not only would it require a massive increase in the number of planes an airline has to purchase and maintain , it would not even garantee that there would always be a spare since there are many different types of airplanes that serve different purposes . It would be impossible to have one of each on standby in every airport . Airlines therefore chose to live with the cost ( and reputation hit ) of not having immediate spares , even if that means compensating passengers or even losing customers . Small caveat : Airlines will usually have some aircraft on standby for a variety of reasons . For example : at their main hub , for maintenance , etc. . My answer is targeted towards airlines not having enough spares to cover for every flight delay around the world .
I do n't know about other places , but when I visited Istanbul a few years ago I had the opportunity of seeing a ceremony of Whirling Dervishes in the former train station of Sirkeci ( where the Orient Express used to end its journey ) . It is held in the evening , I think more than once a week ( but I was there in late December , so perhaps it was more frequent than in other periods of the year ) . The tickets could be bought at the ticket office in the train station . I do n't know whether you are deeply interested in Sufi philosophy and traditions or if you are just curious ( the way we were ) ; if the latter holds , you may have a look at <URL> or even <URL> . If you are interested in getting in closer contact with this group , you may want to visit <URL> .
It is certainly uncommon enough that I have never seen this happen . Specifically , since you are asking about Balkan countries and you have tagged your post with Montenegro , I can say that this did not happen even once last month when I was traveling through 3 Balkan countries . For water taxis , we were quoted the price ahead of time but did not need to pay ahead . We did take a small group boat which appeared to have a regular schedule . In that case , we bought a ticket a few meters in front of the dock and handed that over on the boat as proof of payment . This is not what I would call a water taxi since it is not scheduled on demand .
An " Opaque " booking is one where you do n't know the exact details of what you 're booking until after you 've made the booking . The most common form of opaque bookings are for hotels , but they also exist for flights . There two general formats of booking sites for opaque hotels - those that work on a " bidding " concept , and those that have a fixed price . <URL> was the first ( and still best known ) of the " bidding " types of sites . For their bidding site , you specify an exact date range , a general vicinity where you want to stay , a star range ( eg , 3 star or higher ) and a price . If your " bid " matches something they have available then you will " win " that hotel - however you will not be given an exact details of the hotel ( including the name or exact location ) until after you 've placed your bid - and by that stage you are not able to back out of the booking . Fixed price sites include <URL> Hidden Hotels , <URL> " Wot hotel ? " , <URL> " Top Secret Hotels " , <URL> Unpublished Rate hotels , and many more . With these you are shown details of specific hotels , but without the exact hotel name , location or amenities . eg , you might be told it 's a 3.5 star hotels on the Las Vegas Strip with a pool . Sometimes you can reverse engineer these descriptions back to a specific hotel ( eg , for many countries simply Googleing the description from Wotif 's hotels will let you work out the exact hotel ! ) , but more freqently you are not given enough details to do so . For both bidding and fixed price , the moment you make the booking you are given the details of the hotel - including name , address , etc. . From that point you ca n't generally make any changes to the booking or cancel it - you 'll be charged the moment you make the booking and it 's non-refundable . Almost without exception , booking a hotel via an opaque method will result in you paying less , but with the uncertainly that you do n't fully know what you 're going to get . You will also normally not earn any form of loyalty points/status when booking via an opaque channel ( ie , frequent flyer points , hotel points , etc ) . There 's a good explanation on why deals such as this exist in the answers to <URL> . There are a number of web forums , such as <URL> , where people share tips for booking opaque hotels , including details of prices paid and hints to help maps descriptions to specific hotels .
end question
start question
Is there a reason to prefer the bus to the train in the Czech Republic ?
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
According to <URL> you can not extend your stay for more then 30 days and even then in the case of emergency . The good news is that noone yet canceled availability of B1/B2 visas for the citizens of VWP countries . So if you obtain a <URL> , which you should n't have a problem doing you can enter the US for the period of 6 months and hike one of the trails before you have to leave the country .
You have found the cheapest possible train ticket for that journey . Note that in order to get that price , you need to book well in advance . There are <URL> ( in Norwegian only ) . The cheapest available InterRail pass will <URL> ( or $ 129 if you 're under 26 ) . All passenger train services in Norway , except the Airport Express train , are operated by Norwegian State Railways ( NSB ) . There are , to my knowledge , no other ways of purchasing a Kristiansand - Trondheim train ticket .
Overnight buses in Turkey run when the distance between the origin and destination is enough to allow a departure before midnight and an arrival after six in the morning . However , you do n't get many six-hour routes that operate overnight . When a city is not the origin or destination , it is possible to find buses that pass through so that you get an overnight trip . Göreme is too close to Ankara for overnight service , and since Ankara and Göreme ( actually Nevşehir ) are major destinations , they are most often terminus cities and do n't get as much through traffic . You 'll probably have to take a day bus .
There are several bus companies , both Turkish and Georgian , which run buses from Batumi to Istanbul ( all starting in Tbilisi to my knowledge ) . The offices in the Batumi bus station are all located next to one another , but there are also a couple more offices more centrally located ( for example , at the corner of Chavchavzade and Gogebashvili ) . Either way , tickets are easy to get . Most companies offer tickets for a few times a day . It 's also much cheaper to get the tickets in Georgia than to travel to Hopa or Trabzon and take a Turkish bus from there .
The short answer is no , as has been said . There are a few bus lines popping up . You can check them out at <URL> and <URL> . They typically take you between SF/LA and LA/LV and that 's about it .
I work in Reading and regularly cycle in the area and also use the station . I can tell you that no such provision exists for secure bicycle storage . The station is a known hotspot for cycle theft so I would not risk leaving a decent bike there . But ... if your bike is n't particularly expensive and does n't stand out you 'll probably be OK . Just remember to follow <URL> .
Several restaurants offer Thanksgiving Dinners , with prices ranging from roughly # 20 to # 130 . Some can be found with brief descriptions at the links below . <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , there is ! And it 's well worth doing ! Almost all the commercial river tours leave from the piers at Landungsbrucken , which is on the S-Bahn just south of the city centre . Also leaving from there are a number of <URL> that are part of the <URL> , which accept normal HVV tickets including <URL> : The quieter option is to take the 72 or 73 boats , which leave from the east end of the Landungsbrucken piers , which take you a short way across the river . If you 're in a hurry , these are the ones to go for If you have more time , head to pier 1 and pick up the 62 ferry . On weekends , just look for the huge scrum , as there 's no proper queues ... Ferries are roughly every 15 minutes , so it 's not the end of the world if you miss the first one . The 62 ferry takes about half an hour to make its way west along the river , giving stunning views ( especially from the open air top deck ) of the city , the city beaches , the port it . It runs to Finkenweder , which is a small area of the city just to the south west . From Finkenweder , you can just stay on the 62 ferry , and ride it back to the city . This round trip takes about an hour . Or , if you have a little longer , get off and change onto the 64 ferry . This short trip takes you back to the north side of the river at Teufelsbruk . From there , you can either catch a bus to town , or enjoy a nice 15-20 minute walk through parks to reach the s-bahn at Klein Flottbek ( the Botanical Garden ) . The <URL> also gives a good idea of the routes and connections available .
Your best bet is English , since to a first approximation , everybody you 're likely to encounter in Estonia speaks English . Fluency in Finnish is fairly low and declining , especially among the post-1990 generation who grew up watching English media , not Finnish TV . While the languages are closely related , the pronunciation and vocabulary is sufficiently different that the spoken forms are not mutually intelligible without considerable study , and it would be a little rude to just assume people speak Finnish . Still worth a try if English clearly is n't getting through , but ask if they speak Finnish in Estonian first ( " Kas te raagite soome keelt ? " ) , and Russian would likely be a better bet . And yes , there is some regional variation : Russian-speaking Estonians , <URL> , are even less likely to understand Finnish . Source : personal experience as a Finn who has often visited Estonia , speaking only English and the odd word of Estonian . I ca n't recall the last time I had to trot out my Finnish there .
The earlier accepted answer by JonathanReez was written in 2014 . From December 2015 , <URL> .
I have n't seen Bridget Jones : the Edge of Reason specifically , but karst islands in Thailand have been used in a couple of other movies . <URL> , for example , was used in The Man With the Golden Gun ( 1974 ) ; and <URL> was used in the 2000 film The Beach . Both of these locations are on the Andaman Sea ( the southwest coast of Thailand ) .
Seat61.com has <URL> . Prices start at EUR 29 ( advanced fare ) . It 's apparently very difficult to book it online but it might possible by phone . Depending on where you are , you might try your luck on <URL> or <URL> .
Yes , and it can even be done on the <URL> ! You need to search for a ticket from Swindon to Heathrow Bus , and it 'll give you them as shown here : <URL> The ticket will be valid to Heathrow Terminal 5 as well , if that 's where you wanted to go
Assuming you 're driving a regular passenger car , the <URL> ( Czech wiki link ) for Czech Republic is : Spare <URL> Spare light bulbs <URL> Wrenches Spare tire ( or tire patch kit , if the tire is patchable ; or neither , for <URL> ) Medical kit Emergency warning triangle Reflective vest So no , you wo n't need a spare tire . The maximum fine for violating this law is 2000 CZK ( ~ 75 EUR ) , however the police rarely checks passenger cars for compliance .
The answer is yes : Take a look at the map on United 's site for <URL> .
In the olden days you did do laundry with bar soap - but it was laundry bar soap - harsher and unscented . You can still get it in Mexico and probably lots of places . I guess " hand soap " as it is ( or was ) usually called differs mainly by being more expensive and probably has ingredients to be less harsh on the skin , and it 's usually scented . Whether any of these extra ingredients is bad for fabrics I doubt but you never know . But being gentler on skin you can be pretty sure it 's going to be gentler on stains also , so less effective on clothes . So if the convenience of carrying fewer kinds of soap outweighs the higher price and lesser cleaning strength then sure - wash your clothes with hand soap while you 're on the road . But now and then you probably want to wash it with laundry soap too . ( If you 've ever tried washing your hands with laundry soap you will notice it can badly dry your skin . I made this mistake recently where the hostel bathroom did n't have hand soap but did have laundry powder . After a week or so the skin only on my hands was raspy and I realized my mistake . )
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
The train stops at the Niagara Falls NY train station , and everyone is inspected there . Your NEXUS card works as a passport card so you do n't need to carry your passport , but it wo n't save any time .
end question
start question
How to avoid letting a rental business hold my passport in Thailand ?
Of course it 's legal to ask for anything . It 's up to you whether you give it up . Ultimately , they want to get their bike back and in working condition and to be paid for the rental and any damage . A passport is one of the only things a foreign tourist will value enough to ensure adherence to the agreement . On the flip side , the proprietor wants to make the deal ; moreover , in Thailand as elsewhere , there is a cultural resistance to making impositions on guests . I have never refused to hand over my passport in Thailand , though I have done so successfully in Vietnam and Laos , so this is what I would advise : When you decline , do so politely and indirectly , e.g. " I am planning to stay at ABC hotel in XYZ city , and I will need my passport to check in , " or " I am not supposed to give my passport because it is the property of my government " [ technically true ] . You want to give the sense that you are refusing not because you do not trust the proprietor , but because you are scrupulous about following rules and norms . Then , you 'll need collateral : Money . Large outfits may accept a credit card or cash deposit . This is the standard in North America and Europe , but I do not think it is common in Thailand . Your availability . Your hotel or hostel may have agreements with vendors , and their reference may be good enough to serve as a letter of introduction , or at least assurance that you will be returning to the area . This is where a photocopy of your passport and visa can sometimes work , as it would be a way , in theory , of tracking you down institutionally if you skip the bill . Your honor . I got to know the motorcycle rental guy in the village I was staying in for a few days , and gained his trust . I told him details of a trip I wanted to do and instead of referring me to his friend the taxi driver ( as usually happens ) , he let me rent a motorcycle for the day in good faith .
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
That 's a wonderful time to visit England . I 've visited the area in April-May several years ago and did a similar trip to what you 're describing ( southern England , Wales and spent a week in London itself ) , and it was awesome . Note that this year you should n't be in London in July-September , unless you 're interested in Olympics . That means that people who want to visit England not for Olympics will probably go there earlier than usual , and you 'll have all the crowd you want to avoid right there with you . But do n't let it stop you , England is wonderful any time , especially late spring and early summer .
Doing so seems impossible before check-in but is no hassle at ( online - ) check-in . So I did call up website support and customer service of Lufthansa and Miles &amp; More . Staff was not knowledgeable on my request and they even wrongly told me there was no chance to change the loyalty program selected during booking at all ( but the same employee did take out the originally selected program from the records ) . However it was no problem selecting the milage program to which to credit miles at online check-in .
Find out what car rental companies are available at your destination , then call/email them to ask . Try to ensure whoever you ask checks policy rather than just answering what they think is right - because you may find whoever is at the desk on the day you collect has a different idea , and it could be important to show them the correct answer . I 'd also be keen to check if the law of the countries you intened to drive in are happy with this arrangement . In some European countries you can be compelled to hand over your license when stopped by law enforcement and there is of course the possibility you get into an incident of some form . It could be problematic if it turns out that you were breaking the law with a driving license not in your legal name .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
According to <URL> , the bus to Phuket runs every hour , while the one to Krabi is only once a day ( 11am departure ) . So on that front at least , there 's a good chance the Phuket route is the way to go . It 's a 4 hour bus ride approximately , while the ride to Krabi takes 3 . For the ferry , you have again the <URL> : Phuket ( Bang Rong Pier ) : 09:30 ; 11:00 ; 12:30 ; 14:30 ; 16:00 and 17:00 Phuket ( Chianwanich Pier ( near Ratsada Pier ) - Only to Ko Yao Yai ) : Every day : 8:30 , 17:00 ( speed boat ) | Sundays-Thursdays : 10:30 , 14:00 | Fridays : 10:00 | Saturdays : 6:00 , 10:30 , 14:00 Krabi ( Tha Len ) : 11:00 and 13:00 So again , the ferries are more frequent from Phuket than from Krabi ( the same applies from the island back ) . My recommendation in terms of flexibility , ease , and frequency - I would n't hesitate to take the Phuket route , unless you have a specific reason to see Krabi .
In Thailand , it depends on where you 'll be going . Anywhere from Bangkok northwards , you wo n't notice anything in relation to Ramadan . There 's a significant muslim presence in the south of Thailand ( the sliver of land that borders Malaysia ) , but I do n't know to what extent Ramadan celebrations there spill over into public life . Malaysia is religiously tolerant , simply because there are so many different communities in that country . So , in the big cities , you might find areas where Ramadan celebrations are hard to avoid , while there will be others where life will go on as usual . Small towns could be markedly different , but I have no info on that , sadly .
It is safe to remove the receipts because you are supposed to return those receipts to the Japan Customs counters right after the passport control . Submit the Proof of Tax-Free Purchase attached to your passport when leaving the country - <URL> This leads to another question : " <URL> " .
According to <URL> , as a Business class customer you 'll have access to the following services : Comfortable , reclining seats <URL> <URL> More luggage allowance Access to lounges ( <URL> - AC Maple Leaf Lounge , Between gates 52 and 53 ) Priority check-in , baggage drop and boarding A toiletry/comfort kit for the flight More miles awarder on the flight
According to Wikipedia , <URL> Attempting to conceal it by disassembling will not change the legal status , but will leave you open for further legal issues . The Canadian regulations are similar , but obviously not that relevant if you ca n't first take is to Sweden .
Most reputable car hire companies will let you pick up from the airport , although I 'm not exactly sure where the pickup point is as I live in Sydney and have never needed to do this . It is absolutely unnecessary to head into the city center from the airport , so just forget about that . From the airport you 're pretty much heading in the opposite direction from the traffic flow to the city if you are heading west towards Orange , so the likely ( not promising ) situation is light traffic . You 'll be traveling out west on the M5 whereas any morning traffic will be heading east towards the city . Just be careful not to miss the right hand turn onto the M5 , the light set up at the end of Marsh street is a bit dodgy , but once you 're on and into the tunnel just keeping heading along the M5 . Note this is also a toll road so make sure you have a handful of Aussie coins ( currently <URL> , $ 4.40 after then ) . So to answer your question , how far are you from open road ? About 5 minutes away . When I did a Google search it suggested going via Richmond , another option is to go via Katoomba . My uneducated guess is that via Katoomba is more direct , however I ca n't get Google maps to show me the calculations or the correct route for Katoomba . The problem with going through Bells line of Road ( via Richmond ) you are a little way from civilization so you may have the odd feeling of being lost every now and then whereas via Katoomba you are driving through towns and can always stop and ask directions .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
Largely No , but ... The UK does not have exit immigration checks . Your passport will be checked by airlines or ferry staff to verify you 'll be accepted into your destination , but no-one from the UK Border Agency will see/check/etc you or your passport However ... The UK is slowly , and many would say somewhat incompetently , rolling out a scheme originally called <URL> . That will involve carriers ( ferries , trains , airlines etc ) sending electronically to the UKBA the details of everyone entering and leaving the UK . It was partly deployed , and I believe will be rolled into the new program . Under that , there 's a chance that the UKBA will be told the details of you leaving . Your problem is more likely to be on your return to the UK . You 'd be entering the UK on your US passport , which only entitles you to a short visit ( up to 90 days ) , and not for the purposes of living in the UK . You 'll get a stamp . You may have issues with convincing them to let you in given that you do live in the UK , and you may have issues if you do n't leave the UK within 90 days on the US passport as the system may detect you as an overstay .
All ATMs in the Thai Bank Pool charge the 200 baht fee * , the two exceptions are Citibank ( only in Bangkok ) and AEON who charge 150 baht ( neither are technically banks which is why they are outside the pool ) . A traveler really needs to pull the max amount of baht allowed to keep the fee more minimal in terms of percentages . Most machines limit you to 20 notes , or 20,000 baht , though I heard a couple of bank chains now have new machines that will dispense 30 notes . You can go inside the banks and get a Visa or MasterCard cash advance . Some banks like Bangkok Bank do it without any fees , some others add a 2 or 3 % surcharge . But you need to use a Visa or MC debit card , not credit card , because credit cards charge you interest from the moment you get the advance , there is no 30 day grace period as you get on purchases . You also need to ask for an amount greater than the ATM allows or the teller will point you to the ATM machine outside . Travelers checks carry fees to exchange as well so are n't really any cheaper , plus only a few brands are accepted these days because too many counterfeits were circulating . Cash is , of course , the best in terms of no fees , but adds the worry for some folks about carrying that much cash around . With cash you need to make sure you have crisp new notes , banks are finicky about taking old tattered notes . You also need to consider that some currencies like the US Dollar , the rate you get depends on the denomination of the note , ie : you get a better exchange rate using $ 100 bills , than using $ 10 bills . * The ATM fee is scheduled to increase to 250 baht in August 2016
You have basically three options : Buy a phone in Europe . If you ca n't find the one you want , buy a cheap one that will suit you until you return home , then buy the phone you really want . Consider re-selling the European phone on eBay back home to recuperate some of your cost . Buy the phone from the US , and pay import duties . If you 're particular about the phone , and you ca n't wait , this is your best bet . There 's a chance you may be able to re-claim the import duty when you leave . It is common to reclaim VAT taxes when leaving as a tourist . In principle import duties are the same , but that does n't mean it 's possible , and it 's certainly not routine , so it may be more hassle than it 's worth . Find someone traveling from the US to Europe , and have them bring it with them . Technically , they are likely subject to the same import duties ( since they 're importing a phone , and it 's not for their personal use ) , but in practice , it 's easy to fly under the radar in this case , and since you 're taking the phone out of the region again , it seems ( to me , IANAL ) within the intent of the law .
No , you do n't need a visa to visit the US . A French citizen can visit for 90 days for business or leisure without obtaining a visa . What you need is a travel authorization ( " ESTA " ) , that you can apply for online . You can apply at the <URL> . There is a $ 14 fee .
How long is a piece of string ? Most bus fares in Thailand are under 500 baht , meaning even a 20 % commission is only US$ 2-3 . I 've never even tried to book ahead , as I 've never had a problem just showing up and getting on the next bus . For train tickets , which are a far more limited resource ( at least for sleepers etc ) and ca n't be booked online ( curse you , SRT ! ) , around 200 baht plus credit card surcharges is typical . For airplane tickets , commissions are usually built into the price , the agent is highly unlikely to tell you how much but around 5 % from the airline is typical . Commissions are a form of competition , so agents will push the airlines with the highest margins , and they may well add some extra margin on top ! If you 're booking straightforward point-to-point or return flights , you 'll avoid all the commissions and get the best prices by booking online .
Well , if you want to know something about culture of other country , why not to try solving general problems in that country ? For example : Try to buy food in a supermarket . Or even in a small shop near the center . Try to go and use a barber . Try to find a battery for your cell-phone Try to ask people where is the best cafe they know ( this is a fantastic question , for example , for the Italians ) Try to buy general goods , like socks or t-shirt Try to get <URL> for you and communicate with them who accept you in their home . Walk a lot and use public transportation instead of prepackaged tours ( from <URL> ) Get cash from the ATM - and go into places that do n't have the Visa/MasterCard/AmeEx logos on the door ( from <URL> ) Language barrier is not the problem - if you are polite and smile , people will help you . But never go deep into the city you do n't really know about . Start with 500m away from your hotel .
The specific policy will depend on your fare rules and on the airline you choose , but a week is a frightfully long time when it comes to airline tickets . Revenue tickets Some airlines let you pay a fee to reserve a seat and guarantee the price at the time of booking for up to seven days . For example , United calls its offering <URL> , Air France <URL> , and Lufthansa the unimaginative <URL> . It may not be offered for every fare or on every route . Some airlines allow you to reserve the seat and price for free , but only for 24 hours after booking or till midnight the following day . Some airlines , including American , make it possible to hold online ; others require you to call in . Still other airlines , including Qantas , allow you to reserve a seat for free , but will not honor the price at reservation time . Among U.S.-based airlines , it is most common now that the airline will not hold a reservation for you ; however , they do give you up to 24 hours to cancel a purchase without penalty , subject to other restrictions ( e.g. the trip might need to be at least a week or two in the future ) . In other words , you have post-purchase rather than pre-purchase flexibility . In my experience , the refund extends even to non-refundable fares . Cathay Pacific , for its part , allows <URL> a 24-hour prepurchase hold or a 24-hour postpurchase refund grace period , but not both . Award tickets Things are a looser with frequent flyer award tickets -- sometimes . Air Canada , British Airways , and others do not allow holds on award tickets at all , and few airlines are willing or able to hold award seats on partner carriers . But if you are redeeming on your " native " metal , you may be able to call in and hold the seat for several days . Extending a hold Sometimes , you can get call in and get an agent to extend a hold for you once or twice , especially if you have elite frequent flyer status . But there are no guarantees . They will not do so on high-demand routes , especially for frequent flyer redemptions in premium cabins , and may not be able to enforce a hold or an extension of a hold on partner airlines in the itinerary in the first place . Back in the days when many bookings were done through travel agents and on paper , there was more uncertainty as well as more capacity , allowing holds of three or even seven days on some fares . But airlines , like any other business , prefer to have the revenue of someone willing to pay now as opposed to the potential revenue of someone who might pay later , and in the modern competitive environment , holds are quite unpopular . The 24-hour window persists because ARC , the largest clearinghouse for airline tickets , continues to extend its traditional 24-hour grace period for travel agents to void tickets without penalty -- but that may not last either .
end question
start question
Safe place to see the " real " Palestine as an Israeli passport holder ?
NB : All information posted in my answer is based on a <URL> by <URL> . I have not personally visited Palestine . Geography The West Bank is divided into three zones : ] Zone A ( red on the map ) is under complete Palestinian control . It is officially forbidden for Jewish Israeli citizens to visit Zone A without a special permission , out of concern for their own safety . Zone B ( light green ) is under joint Israeli-Palestinian control . Israeli citizens may visit this area . Zone C ( dark green ) is under full Israeli control . This is where the highly disputed " Israeli settlements " are located . Entering Zone A Practically speaking , border control is usually very lax . Israeli soldiers posted on the border of Zone A mostly care about explosives in your trunk rather than tourists sneaking in . You will see the following signs when entering Palestine : The sign warns you that it is forbidden for Israeli citizens to proceed . Legally speaking , the law states that Jewish Israeli citizens are forbidden from entering , while everyone else is allowed . The law is meant to allow Arab Israelis to visit their relatives , but this creates a lot of loopholes as there is n't a clear legal definition of who a " Jew " in regards to Zone A. For example , many Russian Israelis are Jewish by descent but not Jewish religiously . Disguising your country of origin It is best not to enter Zone A on an Israeli car or a Palestinian rental car . It would be obvious that you 're Jewish and the soldiers would ask you to leave . The most practical way is to park your car in Zone B and then catch a mini-bus to Zone A on the nearest highway . Getting caught by soldiers Since Zone A is patrolled exclusively by Palestinian militia , you may only get caught outside of Zone A . In this case one should never admit guilt and deny ever setting foot in Zone A , even if it 's obvious you 've just been there . In the worst case scenario demand to see a lawyer . Public transport to Zone A There are two options : Take a public bus from Jerusalem to <URL> ( in Zone B ) . From Abu Dis take a public bus to Zone A . This way you avoid going through Israeli border control . Take a public bus to an Israeli settlement ( such as <URL> ) . Then walk outside the settlement and catch a mini-bus going to Zone A . It is recommended to hike a few hundred meters away from the settlement before catching a bus .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
The capsules from Soyuz - Apollo flight used to be and Apollo 11 command module is at the <URL> . A quick search also gives a list of all remaining <URL> based on that there is only one in Europe in London .
Yes , you can go to Istanbul with your ID card . Generally speaking , Kris is right , you do need a valid passport , even for countries for which you do n't need a visa . But in this case , you can in fact enter Turkey with your national ID ( see <URL> and <URL> mentioned by Geeo ) . This possibility is only offered to citizens from a few countries ( not the whole EU ) but it 's the case for Italian citizens . Citizens from an even smaller list of countries can also enter with an expired passport but that 's not the case for Italy .
I 'll answer my own question after staying in Rio and doing the trekking . This trail is completly safe in all sense . There are police controls in the first part of the trail ( the Pista Cláudio Coutinho ) and in the upper part ( the cable-car station ) . In reality , all the area is a militar settlement , so I doubt that anybody try to attack you there . In the other hand , the trail is not so difficult as the video posted by @DarkLightA shows . Nowadays there are no need of ropes or similar to climb and the main problem is the mud if the previous day has rained ( slipper danger ) . We take more than a hour to arrive to the " top " so consider the wikitravel time estimation as very optimistic . Also the " top " is not the real top . There are 2 cable-car stations , the first one is where you can get by walking this trail , but the second one is the upper one ( but the views are similar ) .
The easy , safe and cheap option is train station lockers , which can be found at all major train stations in Tokyo ( and Japan ) . Japanese lockers are usually narrow but deep , so while hard plastic suitcases will not fit into them , backpacks are generally not a problem . Some larger stations ( eg . Tokyo stn ) also have manned left luggage counters ( 手荷物預かり所 nimotsu-azukari-dokoro ) , which can handle any size of bag and only cost a bit more than lockers . On station maps , these are usually shown with a " bag-and-key " icon , while lockers are " bag-in-box-with-key " . Which one to recommend , though , is going to depend on what you were going to do during your day in Tokyo and how you 're planning to get around . If you 're planning on exploring around Shibuya or Shinjuku , I 'd take the Keikyu railway from Haneda and leave the bag at Shinagawa . Shibuya and Shinjuku are a few stops away on the Yamanote line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the JR Narita Express ( N'EX ) . Alternatively , you can transfer from Shinagawa to Shibuya/Shinjuku with your bag , leave it at either station , and then take the N'EX . If you 're planning on exploring around Ueno and Asakusa , I 'd take the monorail to Hamamatsucho , connect to Yamanote , and leave the bag at Ueno . Ueno Park is walking distance , Asakusa is a few stops away on the Ginza Line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the Keisei Skyliner ( premium ) or Sky Access Limited Express ( cheaper , slower ) . You can also take the Keikyu line via Shinagawa directly to Asakusa , but this takes approximately forever and may require a transfer along the way . I probably would not recommend Tokyo station : it 's huge , remarkably confusing , not terribly close to anything interesting ( although naturally it 's well connected to the entire city ) , and not super easy to get to from Haneda . That said , there are <URL> from Tokyo stn to Narita , so if you 're really pinching pennies it might be worth hassle . One tip : when you do leave your bag , pay careful attention to where the locker is and how you got there , these are all massive stations and ( voice of experience ) it 's no fun running around trying to figure out where the hell you left it ...
I 've been on Thailand in January/13 for about 2 weeks passing through Bangkok , Koh Samui , Krabi , Phi Phi , Kanchanaburi , etc. . In Bangkok was where I saw more freedom of natives in talking about sex with tourists . In everywhere was someone offering to me to go to any of theirs sexland places ( In Bangkok we can see an entire district with expertise in Sex Tourism including some bizarre things like Ping Pong show , etc ) . So , this subject is broadly talked in Thailand and I think this will not be a problem to you . I only think you will need to pay for it . There is a chance of them to charge you for an " Interview " about their job . A way to get this interview is to visit a sex house and search for one sex worker who looks sympathetic and allows you to interview her . I 'm sure her will not mind in spend her time talking with you . I hope this can be useful to you .
You can see this in the <URL> or on any map with the <URL> . The first place to see a new day is the <URL> , more precisely the part that belongs to <URL> ( formerly known as the Gilbert Islands ) . The Line Islands are in the UTC +14 timezone , and the rest of the country is in UTC +13 . This has been the case since 1995 ; before that , the country straddled the date line . The Line Islands saw some first-to-new-millennium tourism in 2000 . Since today , 31 December 2011 , there is another territory in the UTC +14 timezone : <URL> , a dependency of New Zealand . Together with the independent country of <URL> ( UTC +13 ) , <URL> to move from the western hemisphere to the eastern hemisphere , in order to match weekdays with the other countries in Oceania . There is one more country at UTC +13 : <URL> . Most other Pacific nations are in UTC +10 to UTC +12 . And if you want to be the last to cross the line , there are formally a few places at UTC-12 , but they are uninhabited <URL> . In UTC-11 are more US Minor Outlying Islands , <URL> and the New Zealand dependency of <URL> ( as long as it does n't follow Tokelau 's example ) .
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
Easily , just go for the <URL> route : You can experience the scenic Bergen Railway , the breathtaking Flåm Railway , the Aurlandsfjord , the narrow Nærøyfjord and the steep hairpin bends of Stalheimskleiva ( May-September ) . The link above is to a commercial tour agency who will arrange the whole thing if you want ( 8.5 hours end to end ) , but you can quite easily do it by yourself , especially from Bergen . Just plan ahead by checking out the train and ferry schedules , as they do n't run all that often ... and consider overnighting along the way , so you can catch some bits without all the other tourists doing the N-in-a-N loop !
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
No , it does not need to match . I have a UK EHIC card ( bound to my insurance as a UK resident ) and have a passport of another EU state , that is totally fine and worked well so far . As you can see in the <URL> , you can apply for an EHIC card as a national of the UK , EEA and Switzerland . All what counts is your proof of residency . ( That concerned the first version of the question ) : However , in case the UK leaves the EU completely and without health insurance agreements between the EU and UK being in place , you need ( as a UK resident ) to take care of your insurance matters yourself ( for getting emergency treatments in EU countries ) .
Definitely plan for strolls along the canals , and possibly a canal tour . Amsterdam has many major art museums , and I recommend visiting at least some of them , even if you 're not generally fond of staring at paintings ( I 'm not ) . The two most important ones are the <URL> and the <URL> ( they are practically next door to each other , on the <URL> ) , then possibly <URL> . Also consider the <URL> , which shows collections from the Hermitage Museum , rotating every few months . If you 're into modern art , do n't miss the <URL> , normally also on the Museumplein but currently closed with its collections travelling from temporary location to temporary location . If you 're interested in history , apart from <URL> ( whose value is more as a memento than to see unique artifacts or presentations ) , the major museums are the <URL> , the <URL> , and perhaps the <URL> . Also consider the Palace and the major churches and the <URL> ( worth at least a quick visit ) . Somewhat lesser known , but definitely interesting , is the <URL> , a large ethnological museum ( as it is located somewhat off the beaten path , you may not be able to fit it into a three-day visit ) . For the young and hip crowd , Amsterdam also has some less conventional places to visit . You can tour the <URL> just south of the central district . Depending on your tastes , you might visit the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , or the <URL> . Given your posting history , I guess you 'll want to have dinner in the station/Dam area then head east into the main red light district ( worth a visit even if you are n't interested in the wares ) . I very strongly recommend getting a museum pass . Partly because you wo n't have any qualms visiting a minor museum for only half an hour , but most importantly because the major museums can have very long queues , which you can completely bypass if you have free entry . Some museums now allow you to buy tickets online in advance , but not all , and this requires planning . For up to three days in Amsterdam , get the <URL> , which includes free transportation on board the trams ( and buses and metro ) and free entrance to most major and many minor museums . For a longer stay in the Netherlands , get the <URL> ¹ , which grants free entrance to all public museums ( which is most of them ) in the whole country , and purchase transportation separately . There 's also the <URL> , which may concievably be worth it in odd circumstances . You can <URL> ( but not the Museumkaart ) at the tourist office outside the central station ( only until 18:00 on Friday and Saturday , 17:00 otherwise ) , at the Schiphol airport , in the participating museums ( tip : if you 're on the Museumplein , the <URL> is just opposite the Rijksmuseum on the Van Gogh Museum side , and there 's hardly ever a queue ) and other locations . Depending on your tastes , you 'll either mostly travel on foot and in trams , or cycle ( there are plenty of bicycle rental places ) . Finally , as Amsterdam has many things to offer and you wo n't have time to see them all , I recommend getting a guidebook on paper ( or e-book ) and planning your stay . ¹ For some reason , many guidebooks do n't mention the Museumkaart , even though it is good value if you 're spending more than a week-end in the country . Although the website is in Dutch , the card is not reserved to residents .
Is it possible to legally obtain a second , fake passport ? The legality of obtaining a fake passport depends upon where you obtain it . I have seen market stalls in Cairo ready to sell any document you want legality notwithstanding . Not a market stall , but there 's ' paper shops ' in Belarus doing the same thing . For you it 's a transaction like a souvenir , for the people who make them it 's a different story . However , to have one in your possession in the EU ( including the UK ) is illegal , even if you did n't use it . If not , is it possible to obtain a second , real passport in a fully legal fashion ? ( This is my preference if possible . ) This is common with people who need lots of visas so they flip-flop them to travel on one passport when the other is tied up in an application pipeline . You simply need a premise . With respect to your strategy , consider this scenario ... You are at your relatives and give your parents a fake passport . You miss the bus or get waylaid in a brothel somewhere and do not show up at bed time . So your parents contact the police and innocently show them your fake passport . Wo n't this be a jolly hoot . So your strategy is blind to some of the things that can happen . The ' best practices ' prescription for your situation is to establish an independent lifestyle so that these impractical strategies are not needed .
As you say , Monaco is part of Schengen Area , which means there are no internal border controls between Monaco and its only neighbour ( France ) . So you certainly do not need a visa . No one 's even going to look at your passport . Quoting <URL> : Monaco has an open border with France . Schengen laws are administered as if it were a part of France [ ... ] I 'm not sure about EHIC . But you have some sort of travel insurance from your home country , do n't you ? If you do , it very likely is valid in Monaco too . If you do n't ( and you travel ) , consider getting one . Edit : UK 's Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office has a <URL> that directly answers that part of your question ( emphasis mine ) : Monaco is not a Member of the European Union and therefore EU reciprocal medical arrangements do not apply . The European Health Insurance Card ( EHIC ) does not provide health cover in Monaco . It is essential that you have comprehensive travel and medical insurance cover . So do get a travel insurance . Other than that , there is nothing about going to Monaco you should especially worry about , even if you 'll technically be outside EU . Regarding your final question about getting to Monaco : it is easy and there are lots of options , as e.g. <URL> . For instance , you could take a train from Nice , Cannes , Menton ( France ) or Ventimiglia ( Italy ) . Or <URL> , which I can recommend : it takes a lovely seaside route and costs just 1 $ . ( If still in doubt , you should ask more specific questions about getting to Monaco from a given place ! )
Yes , you can - the pending H1-B application does not impact your ability to use the VWP program at all . As with anyone using VWP you will need to obtain an ESTA in advance of your trip . The only real complication is that you can not change from VWP to H1-B status whilst in the US . ie , if/when your H1-B is approved , you will need to leave the US to obtain your visa and then re-enter the US using that visa to get your H1-B status .
I ca n't see your video so I 'm not quite sure what you mean by " hidden fees " , but maybe <URL> would be a helpful starting point . Regarding baggage fees specifically , <URL> lets you include these when comparing flight prices . After performing a search , click " Show Toolbox " at the top of the left navigation bar , then " Add Baggage " and input the number of checked bags .
When we got the passport for our daughter ( also German , then also < 1 year old ) we were told that we can have the photo in the existing passport updated for less than the price of a new passport . Children 's passports can also be <URL> and <URL> and a <URL> , and the time to appear in person - kid and both parents ( unless there is only one custodial parent ) , or kid , one parent and written permission and passport/ID of the other ) . Updating sounded optional the way our local office described it . Googling the problem turns up many personal reports of no problems occurring and even 7 year-olds travelling with essentially baby photos in their passport . We traveled when our daughter was three years older than on the photo and I only remember Turkish officials making friendly remarks about picture disparity ( as in " how cute " ) and nothing out of the ordinary when re-entering Germany . However , <URL> states ( 1 ) Ein Paß oder Paßersatz ist ungültig , wenn 1 . er eine einwandfreie Feststellung der Identität des Paßinhabers nicht zuläßt ... " A passport is invalid if it does not allow a flawless determination of the identity of the holder ... " , so there may be an interpretation of the law that supports the official you encountered . Also , <URL> : [ ... ] der Kinderreisepass [ kann ] bis zur Vollendung des zwölften Lebensjahres verlängert werden . Er ist mit einem aktuellen Lichtbild zu versehen . The final sentence states " The [ child 's passport ] must be equipped with an up-to-date photograph " , which occurs in the context of validity extension , but does not explicitly reference it .
In Wikipedia there is a <URL> about the relations between Croatia and Serbia For the first time in history , Serbia as an independent country will be represented by its national team against the Croatian team on March 22 , 2013 in qualification group A of the 2014 FIFA World Cup . For the safety of the lives of those attending the next two matches in 2013 , the football federations of Serbia and Croatia will cooperate to ban foreign guests from coming to the stadiums at which the two games will take place . So I think it 's not possible to attend this game . And even if 's allowed , it 's not a good idea . There will be a lot of police , but it will be still dangerous on and around the stadium
end question
start question
How do you drive a British car ? Is it with the left hand and foot or right ?
The pedals are the same The gear shift stays in the middle of the vehicle , so you 'll have to get used to operating it with your left hand The arrangement of gears also is the same , so top left is the 1st gear , etc. . Also , people who use the right foot to control the clutch should not be allowed to operate a can opener , let alone a car .
Any of the major car rental companies will allow a " One-way " rentals . Occasionally there are restrictions around specific locations , but in general if you 're planning to go from a major airport to another major airport you 'll have no problems at all . The issue is the price , which can vary dramatically depending on a number of factors . Some rental companies will charge a " drop fee " which will be a fixed amount , sometimes based on the distance between the two locations . Others will charge a higher per-day rate for one-way rentals . Some others will not charge extra for the rental , but will charge you an additional fee based on the number of miles you travel on the trip ( ie , the actual miles you drive , not the straight-line distance between the two locations ) . The best option is to look around at all of the various rental companies for the specific city pair and dates you 're after - if possible in both directions as sometimes it 's cheaper in one direction than the other . Travel websites like Orbitz.com can be good as they will show you multiple companies in one search , but sometimes for one-way you 'll get better rates when searching directly on the rental car companies site . Occasionally the rental companies will run " deals " for one-way rentals when they have a need to get cars out of a location - a few years ago I did a 3-day rental from Portland , OR to San Francisco , CA for a total cost of less than $ 20 ! These details are often listed on the rental car websites , but be careful as they do often have some strict restrictions such as no more than 7 days total rental . eg , Hertz currently has a deal for pickup in Arizona and drop-off in California , Colorado , Kansas , New Mexico , Oklahoma , Utah or Texas for <URL> !
The shortest crossings are the quickest and cheapest . So Dover/Calais is very popular . And the EuroTunnel train from Folkstone/Calais is effectively the same , but quicker ( 35 minutes compared with 90 minutes ) and more expensive . However you then have to factor in the drive to and from the crossing points , which costs both time and money . Hence a longer more expensive crossing may suit you better . For example the 10 hour crossing from Rotterdam to Hull is probably more time-effective than driving from Rotterdam to Calais and Dover to Hull . Other factors : Frequency of crossing . If there are only 3 ferries a day , then missing the ferry is a big deal . There are often 3 trains an hour , so no big deal to miss one , and indeed one often can get on an earlier train . Seasickness : some of these crossings ( North Sea , Bay of Biscay ) can be rough . 10 hours on a heaving ship may not suit you . Hence we do usually take the train . Some folks treat the sea voyage as part of the holiday ; it can be fun . Some longer crossings are over-night , and the ferry will have the possibility to book a cabin for a few 10s of pounds so with any luck you can get a good night 's sleep . For folks with limited holiday time this saving of a night can be a boon .
Good news . As a British citizen , assuming you 're visiting for under 90 days , you do n't need a visa . You can apply through the Visa Waiver Program under the <URL> ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) . <URL> : British citizens : please note that from 12 January 2009 all nationals and citizens of Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) countries - including the UK - will be required by law to obtain an ESTA travel authorization prior to traveling to the United States under the VWP . Our Visa section has full details of this on their Visa Waiver Program &amp; ESTA . It 's very easy to apply , costs $ 14 , and is valid for 2 years . <URL> . I 've done two applications in the past 4 years , and both were approved within days ( normally immediately , but the first time had some issue with their system confirming payment had gone through ) .
One big problem here is that deer , elk and moose ca n't read . They do n't know or care about national park boundaries , highways , etc. . And a moose can weigh half as much as your car ; if you hit one , your car will probably be totaled - and <URL> ! If you 'll watch that video ( and <URL> ) , you 'll note that collisions can even happen in daylight ; the moose can literally come out of nowhere before you have a chance to see them . At night it 's very possible you wo n't even know there is a moose there before you hit it , if it is looking away from you as you drive toward it . Note that while there are more and less populated areas , you can find a moose virtually anywhere in Canada below the Arctic Circle . This includes <URL> , so do n't let down your guard simply because you arrived in a town somewhere . While roads in the areas with high moose activity will have warning signs , as I mentioned before , moose ca n't read and may try to cross the road practically anywhere . You should drive cautiously on this route even in the daytime . If you do drive here at night , the advice I have heard given most often is to carry a passenger who can watch the roadway and help you spot animals who may be on or near the road . If you have n't got a passenger , watch for reflection from their eyes , which you may be able to see from a long way off . The more general advice also applies : Wear your seat belt . Watch both sides of the road . Many people make the mistake of mostly or only watching the right side of the road , especially on motorways like the Trans-Canada Highway . But animals can easily cross the median . ( And note that this highway is dual carriageway in Alberta , but becomes a two-lane single carriageway when you cross into British Columbia . ) Drive more slowly , 90kph or less , to give you more ability to stop and take evasive action , and to reduce the impact of a collision . If you think there may be an animal ahead , turn off your high beam headlights and slow down further . In places which do have signs , be extra cautious , as these are the areas with the highest levels of activity . Be extra cautious at dawn and after dusk . These are the times large animals are most active . Keep your car centred in the carriageway as much as possible , to give you more options for evasive action . If an animal does appear in front of you , just slam on the brakes . If you swerve , you may collide with other traffic ( <URL> ) or lose control of your vehicle . Also note that British Columbia authorities publish advice regarding wildlife on their <URL> website .
It is indeed difficult to find information about this if you ca n't read Japanese or Korean . Most ferries are passengers only . I ended up asking a friend in Japan : There is at least one car ferry between Busan ( Korea ) and Fukuoka ( Japan ) run by <URL> . The information I got says that the cheapest room category is included in the car price , but for the driver only . This means that at least for this ferry , additional car passengers have to pay extra . Whether that additional fee is the same as the single passenger fare I do n't know . Also this does n't mean there are no other companies out there with different conditions but I pretty much doubt that . The question to ask would be ' Are there any ferries in the world that charge per car including all passengers ? ' Edit : My second source in Fukuoka came back to me : There is another ferry between Busan and Shimonoseki operated by ' <URL> ' . Again it seems you have to pay by passenger . Also for the ferry from Busan to Fukuoka you have to buy a return ticket for your car . There are no one-way tickets available . This should n't concern any hitch-hikers though .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
There 's a number of options , depending on your exact circumstances . 1 . Your own car insurance . If you own your own car , and it 's insured , then your insurance MAY cover you when you are in a rental car . Often there are fairly strict rules around what is covered , especially as you 're asking about overseas coverage which may often simply not be covered at all . Check your policy and/or call your agent/insurance company to find out exactly what is covered . 2 . " CDW " or " LDW " . Most rental companies will offer a " Collision Damage Waiver " or " Loss Damage Waiver " when renting the car . In effect , this " waiver " means that the rental company waives their right to charge you for any damage to the car when you return it ( normally with exception related to you breaking the law , drink/driving , etc ) . Technically it 's not insurance , but the end result is basically the same . LDW/CDW is often very expensive , and in some cases can double or more the cost of the rental , but the coverage you get as a result is normally very good . 3 . Travel Insurance Many travel insurance policies will cover rental cars . Exactly what is covered will vary from policy to policy , so make sure you read the fine print - especially the different between " primary " and " secondary " coverage ( more on that below ) . 4 . Credit Card SOME ( but now days , far from all ) credit cards have some form of coverage for rental cars when the rental car is charged to the card . Check the specifics on your card to see if rental insurance is included , and whether it 's secondary or primary coverage ( most will be secondary ) . More and more only the higher level of cards are including this coverage ( especially for MasterCard cards ) so never presume that it 's included without checking ! If you do have coverage then you normally do n't have to do anything more than book/pay for the rental using the relevant card to be covered . Primary v 's Secondary coverage Most credit card coverage is what 's called " Secondary " coverage . This means that in the event of an accident you need to first claim against any other insurance you have available to you ( eg , your personal car insurance policy , travel insurance , etc ) , and only if they do not cover the full amount are you able to claim against your credit card . This obviously could have implications when it comes to the renewal price for your insurance ( just as if you 'd had the accident in your own car ) , plus means that you need to file 2 claims to get paid in full . Some credit cards offer " Primary " coverage , either by default , or more for an additional fee . eg , American Express call this <URL> and it costs US$ 18-25 per rental ( NOT per day ! ) . The coverage is better than you 'll get with the default " secondary " coverage , but it 's normally only offered on some high-end cards and some " Business " cards ( and then often only for business rentals ) , or at an extra fee such as with Amex .
Most commercial campgrounds have office hours and tend not to be open real late , say 8 or 9pm . But if you have a reservation and have n't checked in by closing time , they will put a note on the office door telling you which campsite is yours and requesting you to come check in after they open in the morning . A fair number of campgrounds will allow you to simply choose a campsite , if you arrive without a booking after hours , and then come pay in the morning . The drawback however is you may not have the passcode to enter the restrooms or showers .
Well , if you want to know something about culture of other country , why not to try solving general problems in that country ? For example : Try to buy food in a supermarket . Or even in a small shop near the center . Try to go and use a barber . Try to find a battery for your cell-phone Try to ask people where is the best cafe they know ( this is a fantastic question , for example , for the Italians ) Try to buy general goods , like socks or t-shirt Try to get <URL> for you and communicate with them who accept you in their home . Walk a lot and use public transportation instead of prepackaged tours ( from <URL> ) Get cash from the ATM - and go into places that do n't have the Visa/MasterCard/AmeEx logos on the door ( from <URL> ) Language barrier is not the problem - if you are polite and smile , people will help you . But never go deep into the city you do n't really know about . Start with 500m away from your hotel .
It depends on who you 're hiring from . If you 're hiring from a small , local US hire car company , you might well be out of luck . If you 're hiring from somewhere big , they should be able to help Avis UK have a handy page on <URL> , which covers what you can do depending on where in the world you are . They say that for Avis US locations : Renting from Avis in the USA When renting in the USA , you can rent a car with your photo card licence only , or with your paper counterpart licence and your passport . If you have neither part you can not hire a car from an Avis office in the USA Hopefully other larger companies will be able to do the same . Somewhere small is most likely to only be used to photocard driving licences , so may well not be able to satisfy themselves and their insurers with only the paper part and a passport . In the UK , you can ( normally for an extra fee ) have the hire car company phone up the DVLA , and get confirmation from the DVLA that you hold a valid licence without too many points . That only works when the DVLA are open , and requires that the hire car company know about how to check with the DVLA . Maybe you could find a US hire car office that knew about how to do it , but it 's not that likely , and you 'd struggle with the time overlap of when the hire car place is open and when the DVLA call centre is open . You could always speak to the head office of the hire car place to see if they can set this up in advance though , you might get lucky but do n't count on it !
Down is more dangerous . There are three factors contributing to this . When you need to decide on a slowdown in case of potential accident , you basically need to annihilate momentum , and when you are going up , gravity contributes to the total work needed to slow down . When you are going down , gravity works against your intent to slow down , and brakes alone against gravity cant do the same job as brakes plus gravity in case of going up . Second , brakes can ... well ... break . I know of a driver who actually burned his brakes while going down . It was a Russian military truck in Caucasus mountains with manual transmission and the driver was not that experienced with it . Third , when you brake your vehicle 's stability depends on the force on the brakes . When you brake hard as you go down , you can send the vehicle to a drift . I actually have experienced that in the center of Moscow on an extreme slope near the river . Drift can happen when you go up too because of the drag but in that case the car would likely slow down by itself due to gravity .
The most usual case when the rental companies will upgrade your car to the next better class is when there are no cars of your class available , so if you rent from an off airport office you 're more likely to get a better car then when you rent from a larger office like the ones at major airports .
AFAIK , it does not work that way , it is not a type of discount that you get at a counter by showing a seaman 's book or ID . These kind of discounts are usually given to seamen by their companies ( ship owners ) , the company will contact the airline and get a special discount . This is used when the shipping company needs to move crew from one area to another , to operate a different ship or when moving seamen back to their ships after leaves . One more thing , this is usually done by arranging bilateral agreements between shipping companies and airlines , it is not a guaranteed benefit . This kind of agreements do exist not only with ships companies , but also it can happen with major companies , I have seen oil companies with such benefits , but again , it is not something the employee can get by himself , it has to be done at company level .
I called consulate of country B and talked with the visa officer . He told me since you are visiting country A for a conference that is your main destination even though you spend more time in B . He said the rules say : 1 . main destination 2 . if no , longest stay 3 . if no , entrance . He told me that he is reluctant to issue me a visa and asked me to contact country A 's consulate , if they do n't take the application he will review it . I called consulate of country A. First the operator told me to go to B then after telling her that I am going to A for business ( conference ) , she told me that I should apply at theirs ( A ) . Looks like the key thing here is the conference not where I spend most of my time .
The SEEQ cards cost either $ 79 ( 3 days ) or $ 129 ( 5 days ) , and they basically offer 3 things : 2 one-way trips on the <URL> 3-5 days of unlimited travel on other <URL> services <URL> at various retailers Realistically , most of the " discounts " listed appear to be things that you 'd expect to find in the free tourist guides/maps/etc available at the airport or tourist information centers - so the real value there is probably minimal . The value of the 3-5 days of unlimited travel will obviously depend on how much you intent to use public transport , but I suspect you 'd have trouble running up a transit bill of ~ $ 25 per day every day , unless you intend to use a LOT of public transport ! The Airtrain component is the interesting part here . Presuming you are intending to use AirTrain both to and from the airport , then this alone could save you anywhere between $ 26 ( pre-paid AirTrain return to/from the Brisbane CBD ) and $ 68 ( return to/from Varsity Lakes on the Gold Coast ) . So clearly there 's no single answer as to whether it 's worth the money or not - it will depend entirely on your expected travel on TransLink services . If you 're planning to catch the Airtrain , AND have at least one/two longer train trips ( such as down to the Gold Coast stations ) then it may be worth the money . If you 're just intending a few short trips around Brisbane itself - even if you 're also planning on catching the AirTrain - then it 's probably not worth the asking price .
I ca n't comment on Laos as I 've never been there for Songkran/New Year ( although it is probably my favorite place on the planet otherwise ! ) , however ... I was in Bangkok during Songkran several years ago ( 2004 I think ) , and it was an amazing atmosphere and experience , especially around Khao San Road . If you 're in a different part of the country there will still be some form of celebration , but it 's not as intense as in Bangkok/Khao San Road . Whether it 's worth the extra money to you is obviously not a question I can answer , but if it were me I would be handing over the $ 80 in an instant ! Keep in mind that logistically things can be a little more difficult during/around Songkran , especially if you 're staying around Khao San Road . Roads are closed/blocked , and even taxis/tuk-tuks/etc will not be able to get through so you may end up having to walk the last few blocks to/from your hotel - with the real possibility of getting very wet in the process ( although people are generally respectful of people with luggage/etc , there 's always collateral damage to worry about ... )
It is , in my experience , either mandatory or forbidden , never optional . On a flight from JFK to JNB , we stopped in Dakkar . Some people left the plane because that was their destination . Then security came on , did a quick search of the empty seats , new people got on , insecticide was sprayed , and we left . On a flight LAX-SYD-Melbourne , everybody had to get off and the Melbourne people were told to stay in the gate area to line up and reboard . Also to take all their stuff with them . Keeping track of who left the plane and who did n't would be a nightmare . Even the Dakkar experience seemed suboptimal to me .
This <URL> in a <URL> thread on flyertalk shows a boarding pass which indicates a personal item is allowed : <URL> and others posted in positive too . Unless something changed in the last year ( and there 's no trace of that ) you are good to go .
Orlando to New York is 1740km so expect driving time to be more than 24 hrs whereas flying is 2hrs 30 min and should cost you around USD160 / - one way . Dont forget to include cost of stay if driving .
end question
start question
Camera store near Dubrovnik , Croatia ?
Update : August 24 2015 In the old part of Dubrovnik there is a store at Đorđičeva 4 called Foto Felix . He has an assortment of accessories like SD cards and universal chargers . I also saw he had gopros . I bought an universal charger from him ( 400 kuna ) with an adapter for lp-e6 . He has to make some money right ? All other locations mentioned on Trip Advisor are closed or far from inside the city walls . According to a <URL> there is a place called <URL> . Though I do n't know the language very well I was able to see that they have a lot of stuff in the webshop that would suggest they would also sell the chargers . HG Spot Dubrovnik , Put od svetog Mihajla 37b Tel. +385 20 420 565 If you are staying at a hostel or nicer hotel they might allow you to use that as delivery address and you can shop through any web store . They might also know a shop for you anyway and can arrange for transport there . This kind of knowledge is best left to the locals in my experience , when the stores close the websites are usually the last place to update . Good luck !
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
Very often , the accommodation place where you stayed will have a long-term storage . It 's exceedingly common for hotels or hostels to have guests leaving stuff there while they go elsewhere - eg skies from their mountain trip , or stuff they 've bought to take home but do n't want to keep travelling with until they return to the hotel a few weeks later . Sometime 's it 's complimentary if you 're coming back soon and if you 're staying with them again shortly , but more often there 'll be a nominal fee . I 've even seen a comment on here somewhere about someone who was n't staying in a hotel paying the hotel anyway to store their stuff - you do n't necessarily need to be a guest . Of course , this 'll depend on the specific hotel . Alternatively , train stations and airports often have day and long-term storage lockers , for a fee . It 'll usually get x-rayed , and then kept for you . I 've used these in the past as well when I did n't want to take all my bags into the city to explore with , and they were very quick to use , and seemed very secure .
It 's really not far from downtown . I and a friend <URL> for just a day ( that link is my blog ) , and we walked all over town , including down to the beach . There 's not that much in the way of sights , but it 's a nice enough stop off for a day or two . Definitely walkable from bus station to central sites to the beach and back ( my friend is n't a big walker and he was fine with it too ) .
Update : August 24 2015 In the old part of Dubrovnik there is a store at Đorđičeva 4 called Foto Felix . He has an assortment of accessories like SD cards and universal chargers . I also saw he had gopros . I bought an universal charger from him ( 400 kuna ) with an adapter for lp-e6 . He has to make some money right ? All other locations mentioned on Trip Advisor are closed or far from inside the city walls . According to a <URL> there is a place called <URL> . Though I do n't know the language very well I was able to see that they have a lot of stuff in the webshop that would suggest they would also sell the chargers . HG Spot Dubrovnik , Put od svetog Mihajla 37b Tel. +385 20 420 565 If you are staying at a hostel or nicer hotel they might allow you to use that as delivery address and you can shop through any web store . They might also know a shop for you anyway and can arrange for transport there . This kind of knowledge is best left to the locals in my experience , when the stores close the websites are usually the last place to update . Good luck !
Staying in Croatia does indeed not count towards your Schengen stay . <URL> : Stays in Bulgaria , Croatia , Ireland , Romania , Cyprus and the United Kingdom shall not be taken into account as they are not ( yet ) part of the Schengen area without internal borders . Croatia has its own 90 out of 180 rule , as can be read on <URL> of their Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs . Holder of a valid Schengen visa do not need to apply separately . Note that Croatia intends to apply for joining the Schengen area in 2015 . Depending on the outcome and how soon your journey is , this should be taken into account .
Short : Very few problems are likely when taking ' street photos ' in China in most cases in most areas with even half sensible behaviour . People in China tend to be more likely to be happy with strangers taking their photo than do people in the West - presumably white face + large camera = tourist provides ample reason :-) . Parents and people minding children are generally substantially happier about having their children 's photos taken than are people in my country . ( I 've had the occasional problem here and about none in China ) . In all cases due care and general openness is advised but I 've essentially had no problems with this . Some people in China are shy - not unexpectedly , and some older people want no part of it , but in most cases people are open to being photographed or even eager or amused . Treat authority figures with due care , except , perhaps , in Tian An Men Square . More ... The " documentary " aspect of your question has essentially no impact on the taking of the photos . Depending on possible political aspects the authorities may or may not care , but the subject of your photography are not liable to concern themselves with your overall motivations . I 'll comment briefly on political and authority related matters first and then on what you actually asked about :-) . As uncovery said , there are areas where on occasion the authorities frown on photos of certain sorts or of photos at all , but usually you can expect to be ignored or treated benignly by the authorities . Xinjian province has a somewhat similar background to Tibet but is far less known of in the West . I have wandered the streets of Urumqi , Xinjian 's largest city , with no attention at all from authorities . During the subsequent ' unrest ' all communications with the outside world was very tightly controlled and photography would have been much more risky . Things have since returned to ' normal ' and sensible behaviour probably carries no risks . Tibet is always more sensitive - if you want an undisturbed trip then no photos should ever show activities which involve any hint of protest or unrest . A beautiful lake runs North-South in the centre of Beijing . A road crosses the centre . Unbeknown to me the southern half is ringed by restricted military land . I found this out by taking photos from the middle bridge :-) . There was a guard post at the end of the bridge which I had not seen ... . On that occasion I was simply given a stern warning and sent on my way . Taking photos of policemen ( &amp; women ) in general is probably unwise . In Tiananmen square you seem to be be able to do so with impunity ( for some reason :-) ) but you get some nasty looks . <URL> Tian An Men square policeman : Do n't try this at home / YMMV / ... That said ... Street photographY I have visited China about 15 times in the past 5 years , travelled widely , and taken literally tens of thousands of photos there in about every conceivable situation . I mainly use an SLR and these have increased in physical size over time . My cameras do not quite match the excessively annoying size of a full frame EOS1xxMkyy or D3 or ... , but my recent Sony A77 and prior A700 DSLRs with various lenses probably look as professional and imposing as any other DSLR to most subjects . In the overwhelming majority of cases there are no problems at all taking " street photos " with even half sensible behaviour by the photographer . In most situations the Chinese are more accommodating and accepting of photography than in many western countries . They are generally happy for you to take photos of children and usually pleased that you are interested . In many cases I take candid photos and then may follow them up with requests to take further photos . In such cases I show people what I have taken already and in borderline cases this usually forms a bridge into having people allow me to take further photos . In some cases where a stall holder or person on the street seems more shy rather than annoyed I find that showing them photos taken of other people and scenes in the same area often results in being given permission . Where it seems useful I ask people for email addresses so that I can send them copies of their photos . Most younger Chinese people have " QQ " email addresses and older ones may have or have a relative or friend with one . The QQ system has addresses of the form QQnnnnn ... where nnnn is numeric . ( There are other email systems too but QQ seems fairly universal ) . My answer to this Stack Excahnge Photography question , <URL> applies as much to my Chinas photography as elsewhere and may be worth a look . Here are a few " people " photos from China . Some taken with permission ( very obviously ) , some as candids . eg the photos of someone buying food in uptown Shanghai ( top left ) could not have possibly been taken if I 'd introduced myself first . And most people would not understand afterwards why the old-white-guy would want such a photo if I showed them afterwards . The workmen posing ( bo
Broadly speaking , tea plantation tourism is not a thing in Japan , for multiple reasons : the picking season is short ( as little as ten days , although Kagoshima squeezes in 4-5 harvests per year ) , they do n't want tourists in the way of the giant lumbering machines that do the bulk of the harvesting , and traditionally the places that process , roast , package and sell tea are separate from those that actually grow it . But ! After way too much searching , I found one group in Kagoshima that organizes tea tours : <URL> ( 茶寿会 ) , who in season run " green tourism " tours every couple of days that tour a live tea plantation and sample some fresh produce , for a token & yen ; 200 per head . Two major catches : you need a group of at least 15 people , and you will likely need a Japanese speaker to book and accompany you . If this sounds like too much hassle , you can pay a visit to <URL> ( 大野岳 ) , from whose viewing platform at the 466m summit you get a panoramic view of all the tea fields around you .
The easy , safe and cheap option is train station lockers , which can be found at all major train stations in Tokyo ( and Japan ) . Japanese lockers are usually narrow but deep , so while hard plastic suitcases will not fit into them , backpacks are generally not a problem . Some larger stations ( eg . Tokyo stn ) also have manned left luggage counters ( 手荷物預かり所 nimotsu-azukari-dokoro ) , which can handle any size of bag and only cost a bit more than lockers . On station maps , these are usually shown with a " bag-and-key " icon , while lockers are " bag-in-box-with-key " . Which one to recommend , though , is going to depend on what you were going to do during your day in Tokyo and how you 're planning to get around . If you 're planning on exploring around Shibuya or Shinjuku , I 'd take the Keikyu railway from Haneda and leave the bag at Shinagawa . Shibuya and Shinjuku are a few stops away on the Yamanote line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the JR Narita Express ( N'EX ) . Alternatively , you can transfer from Shinagawa to Shibuya/Shinjuku with your bag , leave it at either station , and then take the N'EX . If you 're planning on exploring around Ueno and Asakusa , I 'd take the monorail to Hamamatsucho , connect to Yamanote , and leave the bag at Ueno . Ueno Park is walking distance , Asakusa is a few stops away on the Ginza Line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the Keisei Skyliner ( premium ) or Sky Access Limited Express ( cheaper , slower ) . You can also take the Keikyu line via Shinagawa directly to Asakusa , but this takes approximately forever and may require a transfer along the way . I probably would not recommend Tokyo station : it 's huge , remarkably confusing , not terribly close to anything interesting ( although naturally it 's well connected to the entire city ) , and not super easy to get to from Haneda . That said , there are <URL> from Tokyo stn to Narita , so if you 're really pinching pennies it might be worth hassle . One tip : when you do leave your bag , pay careful attention to where the locker is and how you got there , these are all massive stations and ( voice of experience ) it 's no fun running around trying to figure out where the hell you left it ...
Since you 've scoped your question to within " a few hours up or down the coast " , there are several options . I 'll limit myself to a 3-4 hours drive from Sydney CBD . You already found the Macquarie Lighthouse , so I 'll skip that one . <URL> Situated just over an hour north of Sydney , in Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park ( note : park entry fees apply ) , 91m above sea level . Built in 1881 from sandstone quarried on site . Its oil room and keepers ' cottages remain unpainted in the original stone finish . Access is over sealed roads , suitable for 2WD vehicles , followed by a 1km walking track . Guided tours ( 30 mins ) are conducted every Sunday . Contact Kalkari Discovery Centre ( 9472 9300 or 9472 9301 ) for more information . Prices mentioned <URL> ( not sure how up-to-date those are ) : $ 3 for adults , $ 2 for children . <URL> Photo by bilgolabob , courtesy <URL> . <URL> Situated about two hours north of Sydney . Modelled after the Macquarie Lighthouse and completed in 1903 . The lighthouse is available for accommodation , tours and weddings . At the time of writing this , tours cost $ 6 per adult , $ 5 per child ( 6 to 15 years ) and children 5 and under are free . For a group of 10 or more then a special price of $ 5 each applies , A family pass is also available for $ 20 . Prices for accommodation vary with the season and weekdays vs. weekends ( roughly $ 200 ~ 500/night ) . <URL> Photo by Yun Huang Yong , courtesy <URL> . <URL> Situated about three hours north of Sydney . Established in 1872 , now an inactive lighthouse without a tower , which makes it look more like a regular house . The light was shown through the window of a 10 ft frame lantern room attached to the keeper 's house . The light was moved outside the lantern in 1995 and then discontinued in 2003 . The house is accessible by road from Nelson Bay . It is open daily for visits ( 10am-4pm ) . Includes a tea room , gift shop and heritage museum . <URL> Photo by wood26 , courtesy <URL> . If you do n't mind venturing out further , there are a few more lighthouses that are open to the public ; i.e. . <URL> and <URL> ( both along the south coast of NSW ) . The site you linked to in your question has a convenient map with lighthouses as POI : <URL> Map courtesy of <URL> . Sources : <URL> <URL>
If you 're into your hiking into a big way , then Crianlarich is a good base for a few days . It 's in the Highlands about 2 hours by train from Glasgow , so just shy of 3 from Edinburgh ( so only slightly out of your ideal range ... ) There 's a <URL> there , which provides a great and cheap base for exploring the area . It 's round the corner from the <URL> which does swisher rooms if that 's more your thing . The hotel also does a decent priced meal , has a stunning selection of whisky , and is a great place to relax post walking ! You 've about a dozen <URL> walkable from there , and it 's on the <URL> for a slightly less mountainous set of walks . You have a number of buses and trains from there , so you can easily arrange a walk where you start or end somewhere else . The scenery around there is stunning too . It 's not a " big " place , but it 's big enough if you mostly want to walk , and it 's very well connected transport wise ( by highland standards anyway ! ) .
As @Vince mentioned AirBnb right now is having a little problem in New York that 's why you got some difficulties . My friend just came back from New York and he chose AirBnB without any problem three months ago before AirBnb filed a motion to the supreme court . <URL> . I think that might be why you got no response . Also , one of things that you did n't get a response might be that people you asked have low response rate . Have you checked that ? You can check that form the listing . To answer the second question . I have been using this site to search hostels around the world . <URL> And I never got problems finding reasonable hostels to stay .
I would recommend you <URL> . It 's only 35km from Berlin . Here is a <URL> that they offer . Here are some more tours : <URL> , <URL> , which also do other tours in Berlin . They are walking tours where you meet at a particular time and take the train to the destination .
Yes , there are numerous such offers : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They all seem to start at Kathmandu , so you can probably shop around there .
Yulong Mountain in Yunnan Province , Xiling Snow Mountain Ski Resort in Sichuan Province . Maybe some of the other mountains in those two provinces as well .
According to the <URL> and to <URL> there are lockers in Koyasan station but not in Gokurakubashi . Anyway , if I remember correctly , you have to take the Nankai line from Osaka Namba station to Gokurakubashi and again you will have to change at the same station on your way back to Kyoto so , probably , you are more likely to find a locker at the Namba station on a busy day .
I travel with two bags . My main bag is the <URL> , and naturally contains all my main gear . Clothes , toiletries , laptop , extra batteries , etc. . My second bag is a <URL> , and it holds my camera , lenses , etc , and when I 'm traveling , a water bottle , perhaps spare change , maps , etc. . Anything I might want quickly . The Think Tank bag is marketed specifically as a camera bag , and I use it for that , even when I 'm not traveling . It 's ideal for travel photography , because it wraps around my waist , so my camera ( and extra lenses , external flash , or whatever other accessories ) are always easily accessible -- even when I 'm wearing my travel pack on my back ! Ken Rockwell first turned me on to the Speed Demon 2.0 pack with his <URL> . ( While I disagree with a large portion of what Ken Rockwell says , his reviews on usability are often valuable , IMHO ) . I spent a month backpacking around Mexico with this setup , including several long days carrying both bags with me all day long . ( Of course , when possible , I 'd leave as much stuff as I could in a hotel room , but that 's not always possible . ) For my next backpacking trip , I intend to add a third back-mounted daypack , that I will stuff inside my travel pack . I 'll keep my laptop , swim suit , and other smaller items in there , when it 's possible to leave the bulk of my belongings in a hotel room , but my waist pack is n't big enough . If you do n't carry many camera lenses , a similar waist/fanny pack would probably work well for you , and it does n't reduce mobility or cause you to overheat as a front-worn backpack would . If you do use many camera lenses , I still suggest this setup , but perhaps with a larger fanny pack than the one I use .
Many US airports do in fact have a " mail back " kiosk near security , where you can drop off your pocket knife , attach a form with your address and some money ( postage plus a hefty markup ) , and have it mailed back to you . <URL> is one of the companies that operates these kiosks ; they claim to have kiosks in <URL> ( elsewhere on their site they say 28 ) .
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
Yes there are plenty . The most thourough experience is probably to visit Skansen - the outdoors combined zoo and open-air museum at Djurgården . They have some <URL> about this . In swedish there are <URL> about the festivities . Almost everwhere there are some kind of local festivity going on . It may be hard to track down . In Sollentuna where I live there is traditional celebrations at the local folk museum ( called hembygdsgård in swedish ) . This is very common . Most swedes however bring friends and family to their summer houses and have a smaller celebration . This is the most genuine way to do it . Things to expect : Typically you start at lunch with sill and nubbe . ( Pickled herring and spiced vodka . ) Then you may either have a maypole of your own to construct and raise or you visit one of the local festivities for this part of the celebrations . Once the pole is raised there are supposed to be some music and tradiational dancing around it . This part is mostly forgotten and usually only includes the childrens dance called " Små grodorna " - the little frogs . ( Skansen will surely have some traditional dancing going on though . ) Update : a <URL> to get the feeling for this part . After the pole part it may be time for sports . <URL> is a game from gotland that is played all over the country nowadays . I have also been involved in soccer games at this stage of the day . Later on - more food . More sill and nubbe but also BBQed meet . New potatoes are also an important part of both lunch and dinner . This may often be the first time of the year when you can have new potatoes . Really nice ! Expect to sing some nubbevisor to the spirits . More ambitious people have a little booklet with songs to sings in relation to drinking . They are supposed to end with a " Skål " and everyone drinking the nubbe . Strawberries are an important part of the food stuffs . The most pure way to have it is plain with fat milk but it is also common with home made strawberry cake . <URL> by mariahagglof of flickr . We always talk about typical swedish summer weather in relation to midsummer . We have all spent one or two midsummers freezing in a party tent at someones summr house . When the weather is good it is a different story though . Traditional clothing . Different parts of Sweden has different kind of tradiational clothing and the most likely day to use it is on midsummers eve . If you are a not married woman you can pick seven different kinds of flowers and ( in some versions ) jump over seven hedges . Then put the flowers under your pillow and you will dream of your future spouse . If in doubt about any of this just ask any swede at hand . They will be happy to explain it all . In short - a bigger celebration may have more of the traditional stuff included but a smaller one is more the way most swedes do it . After this I leave you with this ( somewhat sad ) maypole from my families celebrations in 2011 .
end question
start question
Is it possible to take a direct bus from Tbilisi to Istanbul ?
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
In terms of getting a new passport , <URL> . You can renew or replace your passport at any time . It costs # 72.50 by post or # 81.25 through the Post Office 's Passport Check &amp; Send service . Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one - up to a maximum of 9 months .
It almost certainly depends on the ticket , but unless it 's a fully flexible ticket , I doubt you can do this cheaply , or possibly at all . The ticket is most likely a ticket from Tokyo to Rio ; the airline treats the connection as incidental . In fact , in practice they could even send you a different route ( not via LA ) if it made sense to do so on the day ( weather etc. ) . In most cases you are n't allowed to break your journey up , therefore , as that would be a different trip . The only way you 'll know for sure is to call the airline and ask , but if your tickets are non-refundable , prepare to spend a lot of money to make this change .
Not really . You can actually easily check where you can fly from Quito via the <URL> looks like you are able to fly to Guayaquil
Yes , there are numerous such offers : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They all seem to start at Kathmandu , so you can probably shop around there .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
From what it appears having looked on travel comparison sites for available flights there are no direct flights between Moscow &amp; Tenerife . You did n't mention any particular date of travel so I chose a week departing 3rd April , returning 10th April 2013 . Sample results from the comparison site kayak.co.uk indicate flights with a stop over in either Barcelona or Madrid ( note the duration of travel ) . Tenerife being a part of the Canary Islands are located directly west of Morocco , and are far from mainland spain . I thinking getting on any type of sea faring vessel from Spain to Tenerife is not ideal ( unless you were planning a cruise ) . If I were you , I am aware that EasyJet recently started flying between London Gatwick &amp; Moscow , and also fly from London Gatwick to Tenerife ( flying time approximately 4 hours ) . I would strongly suggest consulting them , as an alternative : <URL> Like I say you have n't mentioned date of travel , prices may vary considerably if it were June instead of April ( as I gave in the example above ) .
The Hansaring station is about 10 minutes ' walk from the conference building . ( The KVB planner counts 14min , which is highly pessimistic , the distance is only 700m . ) From that station , line S13 ( see the <URL> ) gets you to the airport station in 17min ; you can see the times on the <URL> . The S13 trains call at Hansaring at :18 , :38 and :58 . For a 17:50 flight inside the EU , arriving at 17:15 would be cutting it close , so I 'd plan on taking the 16:38 train ( arriving at the airport at 16:55 ) , meaning you should be outside the building at about 16:25 ( allow a couple of minutes to buy a ticket ( $ 2.50 ) , I do n't think you can buy the ticket in advance ) . I do n't know what the traffic is at around 5pm in Cologne , but even with a clear way a taxi is n't going save a lot of time . The <URL> states about 15 minutes to get to the center , to which you need to add some time for crossing the Rhine . Google 's driving directions quote 23min , so in light traffic ( but can you assume that ? I do n't know ) you can leave at about 16:45 tops .
I believe it depends on the issuing authority , but usually about two weeks if you pay the fee to have it expedited . You really ca n't ask for a definitive time , because it also depends on how busy they are . I have friends who paid the fee and got their passports renewed in just under two weeks , but that was a few years ago . If you were born outside of the US and the issuing authority is the US State Department , it can take longer . I was informed of this when I received my daughter 's passport , she was born abroad . If you are out of the country and renewing through your local embassy , give it several months either way . I recently got a renewal in Manila which took just under 10 days , and inquired if that 's the usual amount of time from most embassies and they said yes . But , do n't let paperwork kerfuffles jeopardize your travel plans , or being abroad without a valid passport for a little while . Additionally , if renewing the passport for someone under the age of 16 , bring pictures of them that show their growth from their last passport photo to their appearance now . The consulate might let you slide if the resemblance is uncanny , but be prepared - not having these could cause substantial delays . To be safe , I 'd allow at least two months . You might not be able to expedite it if you 're out of the country , so keep that in mind . Otherwise , pay the extra fee , the worst that can happen is you get it sooner than expected . That is of course if not having it renewed in time might put a dent in your travel plans .
Recently while planning my trip to Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam , I did a little research : I am not sure about direct buses from Siem Reap . However , Stueng Traeng is about 5 hours . From there , you can get a mini bus connection to Pakse . This takes about another 5 hours . From Pakse it is an overnight sleeper to Vientiane . If you have time , it is advisable to stop over either at ST or take a slight detour to Kratie . Stay overnight here , and then get a bus to Pakse ( an extra 2 hours ) . I also stumbled upon this website : <URL> , could be useful you , though the buses seem to start from Phnom Penh . You might be able to get more information from them . Another post I saw was about this couple who did a trip to Vientiane from Siem Reap via Thailand : <URL> . I finally dropped Laos from my itinerary , so can not advice you from personal experience though .
If traveling with young children , airlines generally allow you to check in strollers for free . Unless the dimensions are completely ridiculous even after folding , it should be fine , but ring the airline in question to confirm if you 're worried . Do consider investing in a stroller bag or at least a heavy-duty garbage bag to pack it in , as this reduces the odds of damage if a dangling strap catches onto something etc. . ( Many airlines will in fact bag strollers for you for this very reason . ) Source : I 've personally checked in a <URL> with no problems , although this is a stacked , collapsible double stroller and not quite as wide as yours .
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
If you go to <URL> and enter the airline and flight number , you can select a particular day , then select the event timeline tab . On that , you may see an aircraft equipment designation ( AEQP ) , e.g. 77W ( Boeing 777-300ER ) for QR557 yesterday and 788 ( Boeing 787-800 ) for the QR1369 . You can see this for a few days prior to today but have to register an account to see earlier dates . For future dates , you can usually see what the anticipated aircraft is when you allocate your seat or buy your ticket , but this is subject to change . Viewing the flights on your route might show you how likely the anticipated aircaft is .
It is completely okay . I do similar things all the time , although the two passports I hold are both visa-free in most of the places I visit . The Greek official will not care whether you have a stamp from Turkey in your passport . She or he will be concerned only with stamps from Greece and other countries in the Schengen area , to determine whether you have ever overstayed your visa . Assuming you have not , there will be no problem . Of course , if the Greek official does ask about your travel to Turkey , or whether you have Iranian nationality , you should tell them that you are an Iranian national , and if it seems they want documentation of that , show your passport . In general , you should volunteer as little information as you need to , but always give any information that they ask for . I would add that I once entered Turkey with some Bosnian/Canadian dual nationals who did not have their Bosnian passports . Turkey is ( or was then ) one of the few places that Bosnians can go without a visa . I was traveling on a US passport , and my visa fee was something like USD 15 or 20 . The Canadians , entering on their Canadian passport , had to pay a fee of $ 60 , if I recall correctly . I think the disparate fee amounts are based on the fees that Turks have to pay for visits to the country in question . My friends regretted that they had not brought their Bosnian passports ; you 'll save a decent amount by remembering your Iranian one .
end question
start question
Why must I lock the door of an aircraft lavatory before the light inside fully brightens ?
Three reasons for this : The main reason : Passenger comfort . If the light continuously remains on , then if a passenger opens the door of the lavatory when the cabin lights are off , it will fill the cabin with unwanted light . This can be avoided by making sure that the door is closed before turning on the light . Aircraft lavatory doors and door frames are designed to make sure that light coming from inside the lavatory does not reach the passenger cabin and vice versa . The secondary reason : Energy conservation . By closing the door , though the system is sure that no unwanted light will pass into the cabin , by forcing the passenger to lock the door before turning on the light , the system saves energy by not turning on the light whenever there is no passenger inside . Certain aircraft , but not all , have a little low-energy light to make sure that the passenger can still see inside ( and thus be able to see the switch to lock the door ) if the door is closed but not locked , but this is immediately switched off the moment the door is opened . The tertiary reason ( obvious ) : Privacy . The light also acts as an enticement ( in case the " Please Lock Door " indicator fails to do so ) in order to get the passenger inside to lock the door ( because not locking the door will make the lavatory appear vacant to another passenger on the outside ) . However , in cases where there are windows in the restrooms ( is the case with certain A380s and B787s ) , sunlight from the outside could potentially enter the cabin when the door is opened . This can be avoided by using an electronic sunshade or by using a Boeing 787-style opacity setting that immediately darkens when the door is unlocked . UPDATE : The above only appears to be the case on long-haul , wide-body aircraft ( I last tested this on a Boeing 777 ) and not on narrow-body aircraft ( the light only slightly brightened when the door , even with the cabin lights fully off , is locked when I tested this on both a Boeing 737-800 and Airbus A320 recently ) .
There is no general VAT in the US but various sales taxes , which means that there is n't a single tax rate that shops could easily include in all prices . Depending on the location , there could be a sales tax from the state , county , city or even other institutions ( transport authorities , etc. ) so you can not even set a price and print labels for a state or a metropolitan area , let alone nationwide . Also , displaying lower prices is generally advantageous so as long as they do n't have to do it , it would seem retailers have very little incentive to figure a way to deal with all this . Even if one would consider doing it ( which is not the case as far as I know ) , they would just make themselves look bad compared to the competition . To use an analogy , even when several parties really wish to reduce their weapon stockpiles , it 's too risky for one of them to disarm unilaterally and find itself alone without weapons when the others still have them ( or in this case , display higher after-tax prices when everybody else advertises with before-tax prices ) .
Fire Safety The rationale behind this regulation is fire safety . The refuelling procedure generates enough fuel vapours to saturate the atmosphere surrounding the refuelling zone , rendering it flammable and explosive . At which point a spark is all is needed to ignite the air and the objects within it . This applies to all types of flammable-liquid refuelling -- aeroplane , motor vehicles , etc. . Igniting Fuel Vapours A variety of explanations , and metropolitan legends , can be found on the topic . The most popular being <URL> . Accumulated static charges cause a potential difference between the charged material and its surroundings . This potential difference in turn generates an <URL> , which , depending on its strength , <URL> . Turns out , <URL> . Radio Antennas This is the case for radio antennas which can output high amounts of power , thus generating a strong electric field . This can cause a spark to jump from the antenna to the electric ground . <URL> , being grounded at the moment in which the refuelling nozzle touches the tank . Mobile Phones Research on mobile phones generating static charges when in use is however inconclusive . One one hand <URL> . However all these texts fail to explain how a mobile phone could ignite fuel vapours . <URL> , not so long ago . Nevertheless , mobile phones are forbidden around refuelling areas because they are not <URL> . Normal operation of electronic devices generates small sparks within the circuits and components . Intrinsically safe devices are certified to comply with certain standards by rendering them incapable of generating enough energy , electric or thermal , to ignite its surrounding flammable atmosphere . Another possible explanation for mobile phones ban in refuelling zones is due to the possibility of generating a spark between the battery poles and the connecting plates . This risk is amplified when the mobile phone is dropped and the battery detaches from its support . Are We Being Paranoid ? Now <URL> . Personally I would not risk becoming a human torch , just to prove them wrong .
I was thinking a long time on how to best answer this question . Despite the tininess of Liechtenstein I think it is nevertheless necessary to concentrate on one specific part . So I wrote three answers in one . The first for persons who are interested in cultural life , the second for people how focus on some sports and the last one for people who want to party ! ( Yes that 's possible in Liechtenstein ;) ) Cultural Activities If you 're interested in cultural activities I would start the time with an aperitif at the prince 's winery . This winery is called <URL> . Since the prince has bought the country in 1712 he owns some vineyards . The result you can try and buy at the Hofkellerei . The wines are widely known in the region and you can particularly get Pinot Noir and Chardonnay there . After testing some wines I would stroll around the old town of Vaduz . It is n't really big but you can see there some old houses . In the afternoon you can visit a famous art gallery called <URL> . There you can see modern and contemporary art and also some of the prince 's private collection . In the evening you can go to one of the best restaurants in Liechtenstein . The <URL> is n't really a budget solution , but it really offers good food . It is located just above the prince 's vineyard and it is his majesty restaurant . The Lonely Planet writes : " The garden terrace enjoys a wonderful perspective of the castle above , while the ancient , wood-lined interior is cosy in winter " . Party time If you 're looking for some partying I would make sure to visit on August , 15th , the national holiday of Liechtenstein . We 're celebrating then the birthday of the former prince that is not living anymore . In the morning you can go to visit the prince in the garden of his castle . This is n't as boring as it sounds since you get there free beer and wine . There will be enough , since the prince is n't poor . It is assumed that he owns more than 5 billions swiss francs . From lunch on there is a big public party in whole Vaduz . You can drink , eat , dance , talk , etc there and it lasts until early morning . As soon as it gets dark , there is another gift from the prince ;) A firework is started at the castle that can be seen from the whole valley and lasts for approximately 40 minutes . ( This pictures says more or less : Hail to God , the prince and the fatherland ! ) Sports If you 're a sportive guy I would recommend to do a daylong hike in the mountains and then go watch a soccer game in Vaduz . Start early in the morning in <URL> . There a really famous hike route starts that will you guide through sheer mountains along the border between Liechtenstein and Austria . Almost the whole path is built out of rock and a lot of steel ropes are necessary to make it save for hikers . You will also have to climb some ladders . At the end of the route you have the possibility to mount three sisters . No joke , the mountain is called three sisters ( Drei Schwestern in German ) and it is one of the most famous mountains in this region . Judging from the picture above it is not sure that you can easily access it , but if you 're free from giddiness it is n't a real problem . I added another picture to show you the situation on the path : If you 're interested in this tour , I can recommend a <URL> that describes a lot of mountain tours in the Alps . It is not only useful for Liechtenstein , but also for Switzerland , Germany and Austria . In the evening when you 're back in Vaduz , I would recommend to go to a soccer game . I would choose a game against a very famous opponent . <URL> , but from time to time there are some attractive opponents , e.g. Germany , Spain , Portugal or England . All past games can be found <URL> . The actual events will be posted on the <URL> of the Liechtenstein soccer association .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
No . You can not apply for a U.S. visa inside the U.S. . A U.S. visa is only for entering the U.S. , and can only be applied for while outside the U.S. Even if you had a visa , it does not mean " for sure that you will be able to come back " . A visa just permits you to apply for admission . It is always possible to be denied entry on a nonimmigrant visa .
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
You have to follow both , i.e. stay at most 28 days at some time between 02/08/2015 and 13/09/2015 . Therefore , you can not stay longer than 28 days on this visa in any event and if you have not used your 28 days by the 13th of September , you must leave anyway . You also have to respect the number of entries , which means that if you enter some time in August and leave a few days later , you can not use this visa anymore and you lose the benefit of the rest of the maximum period of stay . 09/08/2015 to 05/09/2015 is indeed 28 days and within the period of validity of your visa , so that 's fine . In principle , the conditions of your visa should be based on the information you submitted with your application and allow you to complete your trip as intended . The validity is typically a little longer to give you some flexibility .
If you ignore the semantics of " Visa " v 's " pre-approved Visa-like thing " , then Australia is generally no different ( or frequently better ) than many other major countries . For example , comparing Australia , the US , and Canada ( based on their new regulations starting March 15 , 2016 ) . Citizens allowed without any form of pre-approval : Australia - 1 country ( New Zealand ) Canada - 1 country ( US ) US - 2 countries ( Canada + Bermuda ) Citizens allowed after electronic pre-authorization : Australia - 45 countries ( eVisitor + ETA ) Canada - ~ 50 countries ( eTA ) US - 38 countries ( ESTA/VWP ) Citizens allowed apply for visa electronically : Australia - all but 4 countries Canada - All countries ( ? ) US - 0
I 've not done it , I would n't have thought you 'd have needed to book for in advance . I certainly had n't heard of that , but Wikivoyage <URL> : If you decide to go solo , you can only buy tickets for the Underground River tour in their office in Puerto Princessa as that is the only place to get a permit . There is a limited amount of people allowed each day and booking office is more interested in selling tickets to tour agencies , so make your reservation at least 2-3 days in advance but it can be booked out a month in advanced during holiday seasons . Permits are no longer available in Sabang . An online booking system is in the works but currently unavailable at time of writing ( May 2012 ) . Which makes it sound like the tour agencies buy the tickets , but perhaps do n't sell them . Honestly , I 'd be stunned if there was n't a way to pick up a permit on the day ( perhaps for more money ) I 'm sure the hotels probably reserve enough for their guests but if you want to be absolutely sure book in advance . Also , April 's not exactly high season over here ( unless you 're here on Easter weekend ) so it should be quiet .
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
There was a customs inspection ( actually of course no one from customs was there ) and so we went through CTA arrivals and back through security before getting on the same bus we just got off .
Some airlines ( I know one at least ) do serve ice cold towels for flights departing from hot countries where there is no jetway and people are transported to the plane by bus . Usually the passengers will arrive on the plane sweaty and feeling hot and the last thing they need is a hot towel ! So instead they get served an ice cold towel .
I actually think I have the perfect thing for you . I made this site to check for when any booked hotels open up , and send you an email/text when it does : <URL> Full disclosure , I 'm the creator of the site . You should add all the hotels that are in that area , and when any of them have an opening , it will notify you right away . Make sure you put all the hotels in there as soon as possible to increase your chances of getting in . As @Krippled Hick says , sometimes if you need a booking for 2 or more nights , one or just some of those nights might become available first . Hotel Room Alerts will notify you when a portion of the dates you need open up . Improving the site is a labor of love for me . Let me know how it goes !
A few reasons : a final sanity check that you did n't walk down the wrong corridor . Some gates have two ' legs ' . Or you could have snuck on or something . On larger planes , to see what aisle you should walk down . Otherwise people will randomly choose one and spend time climbing over seats and getting in the way . They 're on a time schedule , and want you boarded as fast as possible . To greet you - if you 're a club member or similar . Some may have extra ' cues ' on that they need to be aware of - you might require assistance . In addition to which aisle , which direction - sometimes you board behind 1st class , so they need to direct you that way . But yeah , it 's annoying ;)
The rule is actually 60 min for domestic , 120 min for international . Some companies , like Delta , even require 3 hours for international flights . That could have a series of motivations , mainly due to convenience . Bigger planes imply more luggage to load , more people to wait , more people to get on board . It seems reasonable that they do n't want the plane to get delayed with people who came barely earlier than 30 min . And they obviously need to admin on board everyone who came before the stipulated time .
The last time I went to IST there was no xray customs inspection on the way out of the airport ( if there was one I was not selected to go through it ) , but there is one on the way in at the airport entrance before the check in desk and a second xray scan at the real security check point . Information from July 2014
This is the sort of waffle that marketing people are very good at generating . It is positive in all the right ways , and negative in all the right ways . It 's clever . Is it catchy ? Yes . Is it carefully modest ? Yes . ( Note that it 's not the MOST photographed . ) Is it a slogan ? Yes . Is it possible to disprove ? No/unlikely . Are people likely to question it ? No . ( You 're one of the odd ones . ) Compare this to many more formal slogans that are in use by large organizations - it follows many of the same rules .
<URL> To date it only mentions police checks . Never does it talk about automatic checks . Indeed the motorway vignette is a 2-part sticker . One part is to be stuck to the windshield , whilst the other is to be kept as a proof of purchase and is to be shown when being checked by police . The reasoning here is that it would be somewhat hard to show the proof of purchase to a camera driving by an automatic control . Quoting from the linked site : A proof of payment of the fee is a 2-part sticker . Part one of the sticker is to be placed on the inside of the windscreen . Part two of the sticker is to be retained . [ ... ] During police checks , both parts of the sticker are required . Indeed the rest of the internet seems to agree with this - for example <URL> . It is therefore safe to assume that , to date , the payment of a motorway sticker for vehicles with a gross mass < 3.5 t in Czech Republic is checked only when one gets stopped at a manned police control point . In other words , there seem to be no automatic controls for such vehicles . Lorries and other > 3.5 t gross mass vehicles however have their own automatic toll-payment mechanism , <URL> . Having said this , at the time of writing the penalty for driving with an unvalid/expired vignette or without one are of ( <URL> ) : Fine of up to CZK 5,000 or a penalty notice of up to CZK 500,000 in administrative proceedings .
If I read things correctly , you are : Currently residing in the UAE Have finished your education in the UK and left Want to visit the UK again , for non-student purposes According to this <URL> ( at least my understanding of it ) an ECO will not cancel a existing Tier 4 Student visa that you have already used to enter the UK . You may however be refused entry under <URL> if you try and use your Tier 4 Visa to enter and the IO determines that your change of circumstance invalidates your visa , however this should not happen obviously , as you will be entering as a visitor on a general visit visa . I am confused as to what you mean by ' proving family ties ' , in the visit visa application , it does ask you to list the details of your Mother and Father , however there is no requirement to prove this in your application , unless specifically asked to . What I think you mean is , how are you going to show that family is one of the reasons you will leave the UK at the end of your visit . You can not prove this , as you already said , because your family lives in Uganda and you do not . Do n't worry , this is not something that severely affects your application . If you can prove beyond reasonable doubt via other means ( economic ties as you said , for example , like a job in the UAE ) , then that should not be an issue . Please correct me if I have misunderstood anything in your question .
end question
start question
Is it possible to get an e-Visa for Vietnam ?
Despite that fact that many websites claim to offer them , there is no such thing as an e-visa for Vietnam . However in addition to normal consulate-issues visas , there is a " Visa On Arrival " available , however this works differently to visa on arrival for most other countries . In order to obtain a VOA for Vietnam for need to first obtain an official invitation letter , and this service is available via countless websites - some of them legitimate , some of them less so . TripAdvisor has a very good article on <URL> and I would strongly suggest reading it before you decided if a visa on arrival is right for you , and before picking a company to arrange the invitation letter . Be very careful when picking a company to use for this service - many companies go to great lengths to try and mislead you during the process . For example , www.vietnamvisa.govt.vn appears to be a legitimate Vietnam Government website - except it 's not . The government domain is " gov.vn " - this website has nothing to do with the government and is trying to use a similar domain to mislead you .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
In principle it is possible . However , one has to foresee one or two extra steps before starting to plan the trip per se . Your friend should first talk to his doctor . He is the person to ask . In principle dialysis patients can travel , but not without receiving green light from their doctors . The local hospitals can assist patients to make the necessary arrangements for the dialysis abroad . Dialysis patients probably ca n't go everywhere in the world . They have to go to a place where they can receive the appropriate treatment . Dietary requirements are also likely to restrict the choice . The most obvious and easy option for your friend would be to travel within Switzerland . Distances are short , the country has a lot to offer , arrangements can easily be take and reimbursement is not an issue . Travel in Europe should not be a big issue either . Check with your health insurance what the exact modalities and possibilities are .
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
Yes , there is a premium service provided by VFS called " Premium Service Lounge " . I have got an appointment on same date by this facility . It is really great service by VFS and everything will be done very easily . The Premium Lounge Service includes : Separate lounge with personalized service by dedicated staff Refreshments Faster submission of applications at the visa application center Courier return of passport SMS alert on the status of your application Photocopying and photo booth service for your documents Important note : Your visa application will be processed and decided by the French Consulate in Bangalore , Use of the Premium Service Lounge does not affect the processing time of your application .
I had this problem in Batumi some years ago , except I think we were looking for somewhere around 7am-8am ( I do n't remember why , I think we needed to take an early mashrutka somewhere ) . Batumi is definitely not a " mornings " sort of town . If you want a coffee at midnight though , you 're spoiled for choice ! After lots of walking around , we found somewhere that was ( if I remember right ) opening at 8am but took pity on us and let us in early . I remember it being on the corner of a square / park one block from the beach and beach-facing parks . After some browsing on Google Maps , I think I 've found the place , <URL> . I do n't recognise the name but it looks similar to what I remember and the location looks right : <URL> There 's also apparently an 8AM-opening ice cream place further from the beach , off an even smaller square , <URL> - I 'm pretty sure this is n't the one I 'm thinking of , as I 'd probably remember if I 'd had ice cream for breakfast and it 's several blocks from the beach , but it might be another option . While browsing I also found a <URL> , that 's within 10 minutes walk from both the other options , so this is probably the best area to explore . Whether these places really do open that early , I ca n't say for sure ... But I believe it is possible . Good luck !
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
The hotel wo n't mind if you check in and not use any of their services ... less food eaten equals less cost to them . But while you may not want to officially check out as that might cancel the last night you plan to use , it might be good to let the front desk know you may not be sleeping there every night , so they do n't call the police when your room is empty for three nights in a row . But an all inclusive does n't mean you are stuck there , you could use the rooms every night and set out to explore by day ( at your own expense or maybe with one of their activities if it suits your interests ) . You can head out to eat or eat in , no real restrictions . Is it sensible ? Hard to say , without more details . Is the cost of the package deal ( air , lodging , transfers ) less than the cost of just airfare ? Are there other benefits of the package you want to enjoy that you ca n't get on their own ?
The travel desk at my hotel has made some calls so I 'll share the information . Three days left is no problem . It will be ready tomorrow afternoon much faster than my hotel in MCMC ! It will cost USD $ 40 $ 20 cheaper than both my initial visa and the price I was quoted by my hotel in HCMC . Actually there was a misunderstanding about when I should pay so my hotel actually took my passport one day later , when I had only two days left on my visa ! And I did get it back the same afternoon . And it did cost only USD $ 40 . I have n't checked any other hotels or travel agents but my hotel was Hotel Tulip Xanh , which has a travel agent on the ground floor . So if you have trouble finding the same or lower place anywhere , this is a place to come . Their address is : 80 Hải Thượng , tp . Đà Lạt .
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
As per Lonely Planet <URL> , only currency that can be withdrawn in Zambia is Zambian Kwacha . If you have make payment in USD , then either carry the cash in USD or withdraw money in Zambian Kwacha and buy USD from the banks . In case you decide to carry cash in USD , keep in mind few things ( quoting from the above link ) - All USD must be new editions ( 2006 for some denominations and 2009 for others ) . No creases , no marks . Carry large denominations ( $ 50 and $ 100 ) as they can only be changed as the exchange bureau All ATMs accept Visa cards , but most do n't accept your Master Card And also there was a ruling in June 2012 that companies are not allowed to deal in USD and can only accept the local currency Kwacha . So check with the places where you were asked to pay in USD once again , they might ask you to pay in Kwacha after this ruling . PS : Zambia is changing its currency in January 2013 and dividing their currency by 1000
It 's of course possible to exchange currency in Irkutsk . It 's a big city with a population of some 600 thousand , roughly the size of Helsinki , Stuttgart or Lisbon , so it certainly has a lot of banks and currency exchange points , any of which can be expected to accept Euros . A <URL> in the city , you will surely be able to find one close to your location in the city , especially if you arrive by rail , which is a major transportation method there . <URL> showing the current exchange rates for EUR in Irkutsk . The three major numbers , left-to-right , are : the central bank 's exchange rate , best buy rate in the city , best sell rate in the city . As of this moment , the best rate for selling EUR is at Гринкомбанк ( Grinkombank ) , at 74.1 rubles per Euro , with the official exchange rate of the Russian central bank being 73.63 .
Best answer is probably - legally : yes . Realistically : no . You 're signing a contract that you agree to pay for damages , beer from the minibar , etc , and as a minor , you ca n't legally enter into a contract . So legally they could ' let you ' , but it 's highly unlikely that they 'd want to expose themselves to a risk like that . From <URL> : Hotels may generally evict a guest and keep the room rental payment , despite the eviction , for the following reasons : Disorderly conduct Nonpayment Using the premises for an unlawful purpose or act Bringing property onto the premises that may be dangerous to others Failing to register as a guest Using false pretenses to obtain accommodations Being a minor unaccompanied by an adult registered guest < ========= this one Violating federal , state , or local hotel laws or regulations Violating a conspicuously posted hotel or motel rule Failing to vacate a room at the agreed checkout time <URL> may also prove to be of interest . It seems the one " loophole " you might have is for a parent to write a letter of consent and provide a security deposit in advance . But I 'd contact them first to check . Otherwise , you may just need to resort to " couchsurfing " - although I ca n't officially condone that , as <URL> requires that you be 18 to use its service ...
Yes , there are numerous such offers : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They all seem to start at Kathmandu , so you can probably shop around there .
I am not sure about the skyscrapers , but it is definitely possible to access <URL> , which is right in the centre of the city .
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
Buy two full-fare tickets . They are typically fully refundable . Obviously , check before you purchase . You typically buy directly from the airline . Then , whether she says yes or no , get them refunded and buy something sane . You 'll have to pay a small charge , but nothing compared to the fare difference . Or -- and this is cheaper if you are going to just print the ticket yourself -- forge the tickets completely . Just take an old ticket and replace the dates and destinations .
Old undiscovered islands is possible , but unlikely , given we have satellite imagery of the earth down to very high resolution detail . However , there are plenty of examples of mistakes being made , and some islands that we ' know about ' may not even exist . As recently as 2012 , <URL> despite being on historical maps for 150 years , and even on Google Maps ! Then , volcanoes are creating new islands every so often with eruptions . Just a few months ago , a <URL> . This is fairly common for smaller ones to be made , but they do n't often last long , so this was special . But given that scientist monitor eruptions and study them , it 's pretty common to discover the new formations rather quickly . Similarly a few years ago , a <URL> ( although technically more of a ' raft ' of pumice ) after some eruptions and earthquakes . So , short answer - it 's possible , but unlikely for old ones to exist , and while new ones are created occasionally , we usually find them pretty fast . Of course , this does n't mean we 've explored them , just photographed/mapped them .
Any question about staying overnight at an airport can usually be answered by consulting the comprehensive <URL> website . It 's probably best to read the reviews on that site to see the experiences of previous passengers there . Since you 're arriving from an international flight , you will have to clear security , re-check your luggage if you have any , and you may or may not be allowed through security for your flight the next day . I suspect you wo n't be allowed through but ca n't confirm that . If there has been disruption , apparently the airport sets up cots for passengers . If not , you will have to find a bench or quiet corner to sleep . If you can afford it , you 'll obviously be a lot more comfortable in a hotel . Looking on google maps for hotels near the airport , there seem to be reasonably inexpensive hotels nearby in the order of $ 80 - $ 100 .
end question
start question
Which side of Lyria train to sit on from Paris to Geneva ?
Based on <URL> , I would say that seating on the left side is best . You would be on the lake side in <URL> and <URL> . I do n't recall the first part of the journey ( on the <URL> ) as particularly scenic . Upper level is nice on " Duplex " rolling stock but do note that many Lyria-branded trains are in fact single level . Furthermore , since seating in first class is in a 2 +1 configuration , Club Duo " vis-à-vis " ( face-to-face ) is only available on one side of a given carriage .
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
As we pointed out in some comments , there really are tons out there . It being mostly a Catholic ( historically ) and Spanish-Portuguese continent , a lot of the festivals tend to be related to dates at similar times , as well as historical dates ( independence days and the like ) . For this , I 'd recommend a site like <URL> - which lists around 70 well-known festivals . Then they have a sorting tool on the right which will let you sort by country , month and the like . Unfortunately you 're a bit late for Carnaval and a bit early for <URL> , but there are plenty others in that list in South America in the months you mention !
Generally , new and longer-distance trains will , older suburban ones wo n't . Quite a few have them in first class , but not in standard . CrossCountry Voyager trains have power available in most seats , and a nice seating plan : <URL> East Midland have power on their ' Meridian ' trains but not their HSTs - <URL> South West Trains do n't generally - it appears that some of their carriages do ( <URL> ) , but it 's not publicised ... Virgin West Coast Super Voyager have power at all seats . Pendolino First Class have power at all seats . Pendolino Standard Class have power at seats with tables . <URL> Virgin East Coast Seats with tables have power ( all first class seats have tables ) <URL>
Wikipedia explains that <URL> , specifically on the islands of Faial , Terceira , São Miguel and Pico is the place to go for Whale Watching . <URL> backs this up , narrowing it to focus on Faial or Pico . This matches the various Azores tourism sites , so I 'd definitely target those two , and it sounds like if you like the outdoors , Pico would be the place to go for some hiking as well .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
It is a more or less personal opinion , but I personally would first travel along the Rhine valley . There you can find nice landscape and also stop in beautiful cities like Strasbourg . After that I would carry on through Alsace , crossing nice cities like Colmar . After that I would try to cross the Alps , to see some high mountains and beautiful landscape . It depends a little bit on where exactly in the South of France you want to travel ( i.e. to the border with Spain or Italy or between ) , but assuming that it is somewhere in the middle like Marseille , I would then visit the Swiss city Basel and travel along Lake Neuchatel and Lake Geneva back to France . There I would aim to Chambéry , located directly between two Natural Parks . And from there you can pass Col de l'Iseran , the highest pass in the Alps ( 2770m ) to get to Italy . From there I would aim at Albenga so that you can later follow the beautiful Italian respectively France coastline to your destination . Here is a map of my suggested route : Google Maps tells me it is 1495 km , while the direct route would be 866 km . So you see it is really a lot more to drive , but you will also see a lot more !
Yes , you can travel with regional trains . It takes a little over 4 hours plus the connection times , and there are no good connections , so count on 5 to 6 hours for the journey . The bus takes 4 -- 5 hours and is cheaper than regional trains . It is n't easy to find the train times or prices because online planners tend to go for the fastest journey only . There 's an option to avoid ICE on the <URL> , which avoids other high-speed trains such as Thalys ( currently -- it did n't in the past ) . If you ca n't get a list of local trains connections , look up Bruxelles -- Lille , Lille -- Amiens and Amiens -- Paris separately . As of today , you can break your journey as follows : Paris -- Amiens : 21.60 $ , lasts 66min to 99min , about 1 train per hour . Amiens-Lille Flandres : 21.10 $ , lasts 80min , about 1 train per hour . Lille Flandres -- Bruxelles with a change at Tournai : 22.60 $ , lasts 102min , about 1 train per hour . That 's a total of 65.30 $ . It should be a little less if you go to a train station and buy a single ticket ( I do n't think you can buy that ticket online ) . In comparison , a last minute Thalys ticket costs 99 $ and the journey is only 82min . If I elect to travel one day later I find seats for 69 $ ( obviously this depends on how full the trains are ) . A last minute ticket on <URL> costs 39 $ for a 4-hour journey or 29 $ for a 5-hour journey , with no break of journey either way . So regional trains do n't seem like a good compromise between price , comfort and speed .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
The carnet comes as 10 separate tickets and nothing stops you from sharing with others .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
Well <URL> in the world . I 'll ignore lightvessels for this question . For European countries : Belgium - 6 Bulgaria - 5 Denmark - 6 Estonia - 42 Finland - 9 France - several Wales - 25ish Scotland - tons Portugal - 44 continental , more in Azores Spain - tons Sweden - 20ish England - 50ish Norway - tons etc you get the idea . From that , you can either infer there are loads in Norway , Portugal , Spain and Estonia , or there may just be lighthouse obsessed fans in those countries . <URL> maintains an index for more than 14,700 of the world 's lighthouses . So that 's another good place to start . They also note : It is not so easy to define exactly what we mean by a lighthouse , and various organizations and individuals have used very different definitions when describing or classifying lighthouses . Clearly , all lighthouses are lighted aids to navigation , but not all lighted aids are considered to be lighthouses . Some definitions are not controversial . An aid to navigation is a structure placed on or near navigable water to provide visual guidance to mariners . A beacon is an aid to navigation that is fixed in place ( that is , not floating ) . A lighted beacon or lightbeacon is a beacon displaying a light , while an unlit beacon is called a daybeacon . Often , a lighted beacon is simply called a light . In this Directory , a lighthouse is a lightbeacon having a height of at least 4 meters ( 13 ft ) and a cross-section , at the base , of at least 4 square meters ( 43 sq ft ) . This simple definition does not require that a lighthouse have any particular form or appearance . The structure of a lighthouse may be enclosed , partially enclosed , or completely open . If you went state-side , apparently " <URL> " . According to <URL> , there are 1032 in England . Finally , I found <URL> , which plots lighthouses on a map . It 's not very detailed , but I 'd say Denmark in this case . You might also contact the <URL> , as they may well have statistics somewhere , or know who might . EDIT In addition , someone mentioned the coastline effect . While it would seem to indicate more chance of lighthouses , in reality it 's dependent more on dangerous , irregular and busy coastlines . If it 's easy sailing and deep water , why have a lighthouse ? However , there 's probably some rough correlation still - as a tiny coastline like Latvia is probably going to have fewer than Norway . To that effect , here is <URL> , and the longest European one is Norway , unless you also count Russia as European ...
Indeed , the French transportation network is organised very centrally around Paris . Looking at the map of the recent ( it might change rapidly ) <URL> ( some website to book buses ) and the train network maps provided by the SNCF <URL> and <URL> , it looks clear that most trains and buses are centered around Paris ( you might find a connection in Tours or Le Mans ) so in any case you will have to connect . Using <URL> and avoiding Paris is possible but probably longer and less convenient , going through Nantes . An alternative would be ride sharing . <URL> is the most popular service . A search for this weekend shows few direct Rennes-Poitiers trips though . Also know that ride share trips tend to appear only about 2 weeks before the date of travel , so if you want to secure a trip early , this might not be your best option . Most French people now compare trains , buses and ride sharing options ( and planes for the longer distances ) when travelling across the country .
After some inspection and asking few crew members . It turns out that if you enter any country within the Schengen area as a crew member then you can move within the Schengen area . Make sure you have your passport and a copy of the crew members General Declaration . UPDATE : I went to Amsterdam and came back , I asked the police at the station in Paris and he said it 's ok . Anyway no one stopped me or asked me . All went smooth just like a domestic trip .
I was not able to find train connection but on the pages of the <URL> you can find buses that go to Trieste ( local name in Slovenian : Trst ) . This is much shorter trip than taking detours and taxis as suggested by Paola . Here is a sample :
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
According to the <URL> in your question , you do seem to <URL> of a B-1 visa : If you apply for a B-1 / B-2 visa , you must demonstrate to a consular officer that you qualify for a U.S. visa in accordance with the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act ( INA ) . Section 214 ( b ) of the INA presumes that every B-1 / B-2 applicant is an intending immigrant . You must overcome this legal presumption by showing : That the purpose of your trip to the United States is for a temporary visit , such as business , pleasure , or medical treatment That you plan to remain in the United States for a specific , limited period of time Evidence of funds to cover your expenses while in the United States That you have a residence outside the United States , as well as other binding social or economic ties , that will ensure your return abroad at the end of your visit You may need a letter from the company that you are interviewing with , stating that they have invited you to their office for a professional matter . You will also ( per the second item on the list above ) be required to show your return ticket to Russia to prove that your stay in the US is specific and limited . I suggest talking to whoever scheduled your interview to see if they have experience with international candidates ( many companies can help their job candidates figure out what the necessary paperwork is ) , and keep trying to get in touch with the US embassy near you . It seems pretty clear that B-1 is the type of visa you need , but it 's always best to make sure with the US government directly .
end question
start question
Is 40 Min Layover in Newark Enough time ?
I give this 50/50 chance at best , especially this time of year . 40 minutes is tight even in the best of circumstances but Newark has lots of traffic , lots of delays and is prone to weather issues ( as is Boston for that matter ) . The United terminals are huge , so it can easily be a 10 minute hike between gates . I never had to go through security while connecting , so I doubt that 'll be an issue . Get the United app installed on your phone : that 's the quickest way of checking what gate your connection is departing and on whether it 's on time or not . You can do this while your still taxiing after landing . If it 's super tight you can sometimes beg the other passengers or the flight attendants to let you get off first . If your stuck in the back of the plane , that 's going to be a problem . I would call United ask for a change , perhaps an earlier flight out of Boston . 40 minutes in a massive airport like EWR seems unreasonable . And do n't check any bags !
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
I just had a layover in Addis a few days ago . You do not necessarily have to collect your luggage there . Confirm this with the airline agent when you check your bag ( s ) . The destination ticket should indicate Durban airport ( DUR ) . In addition , I can confirm that for an international transit , you do not need to clear Ethiopian immigration controls .
It is possible to do a few sightseeing during that amount of time . Qutub Minar is the nearest attraction from Delhi Airport ( opening hours 7AM -- 5PM ) . You can reach there in a 50-60 minutes cab ride ( there is no direct Metro line ) . You can also also visit India Gate . Along with India Gate you can cover Parliament House , Rashtrapati Bhavan , and Connaught Place . Easiest way to reach this places will be to take <URL> ( On the Airport Express line to New Delhi Station , then on Yellow line to Central Secretariat station ) . I would suggest you start your sightseeing in Connaught Place ( reach by metro at Rajiv Chowk station , two station before Central Secretariat ) , then take a cab/auto to India Gate ( Parliament House and Rashtrapati Bhavan are near to India Gate ) , then take Metro to Qutub Minar ( Qutub Minar Station at Yellow line ) , then take a cab ride back to Airport .
Acording to <URL> , which claims to have up-to-date and historical statistics about water temperature , the water is supposed to be warm enough ( according to your definition ) from June to October . I 'm linking below the image of the sea temperature range in Barceloneta ( one of Barcelona 's beaches ) to save it for future readers :
If you bought it on one ticket then yes , it is sufficient time or it would not have been sold to you ( alright perhaps I am an optimist ! ) . Your luggage will be through-checked to CDG , if on one ticket . ( If it is on two tickets it should still be possible to arrange for it to be through-checked and to pick up your GRU-CDG boarding pass at FOR . However I would not advise buying your tickets this way . ) You have n't said which airport it is ( São Paulo has two ) , but since you are flying to Paris on TAM I conclude it is Guarulhos ( GRU ) . The minimum connect time at GRU for domestic to international ( D/I ) is 1 hour : ( There are some exceptions , but your flights are not in the list . ) There is a terminal change going from terminal 2 to terminal 3 . Unfortunately , I think you will have to re-clear security at terminal 3 -- perhaps someone can confirm this ?
Google will find the <URL> and tell you that it closes at 6.30 pm At other times the trip is possible in that amount of time , but busyness depends on time and season . You can reach the monastery and the Big Buddha without going up the cable car , but I do n't know how long it takes to drive there .
The buildings will be as beautiful in the night as during the day , maybe even better if still having the lights on them , and you can find some activity still in the red light district , but it will be the last little bit and depending on the weather it might have stopped before you make it to the city . I would not bother getting into Amsterdam city , so little is open and what is open is likely not going to be geared to tourists around for a few hours only . The one exception is that there might be clubs open , allowing you to dance ( and modestly drink if you have a flight at the end of those hours ) and get the athmosphere of the city : <URL> or <URL> for places that might suit you and might be open . There will not be many on a Monday night . About transportation , that time of night the train is down to one per hour , ( 1:14 , 2:00 , 3:00 and so on , ) and if you have just missed it you will lose about all the time you have to visit the city . So check the time and whether you can just catch a train , if not , taxi might be the best option . Shared taxi or prebooked ride will be cheaper but might not quick enough in the short time you have . Most prebooked rides will combine different people to fill taxis or 9 people vans . There might be a night bus , which is likely to run at different times to the train . <URL> will help you find the best times for you .
Yes . When you land in DF , you will be required to clear immigration and customs with all of your luggage , then re-check any checked bags , and re-clear security . I have done this before , and my girlfriend just did it last week ( LHR - > MEX - > GDL ) . When things are running smoothly , it should n't take more than an hour to do all of that . But if you have checked luggage , and there is a delay in unloading the luggage , for instance , or it 's a particularly busy time of day , it make take longer . It 's always better to plan on the side of too much time than too little , IMO . I would want at least 2 hours between flights , and would feel more comfortable with 3 . More than 4 and you 'll just be killing time ( although I have learned not to mind that , if I carry a good book ) . Also keep in mind that MEX is a large airport , and depending on where your arrival and departure gates are located , you may spend as much as 20-30 minutes just walking between gates .
No you do n't need to claim and recheck your bags . For future reference at Changi , if you 're flying with SQ on the same ticket they will transfer them for you . <URL> the answer from their Twitter : Are both flights booked under the same booking ref ? If yes , the baggage will be check through to the final destination .
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
If Finnair gave you an itinerary using those two flights , then they feel it is a legal , doable connection . It seems short , but that late at night there may not be much traffic so connections might be easier to do . If you are putting the two flights together yourself , then personally I would allow more time . In both cases , if your Hong Kong flight is delayed you maybe stuck in Helsinki until they can find you space on a later LHR flight .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
It is a bit of a drive ( probably around 30-45 minutes , as you said ) , and as far as I know there is no public transport so you have to get a taxi ( about $ 30 one way ) . However , you have 8 hours , so you are still left with 5 hours in Panama City . If I were you , I would definitely go for it . For example , you would manage to see all of the <URL> and have a nice lunch there .
Enjoy a nice lunch at one of the restaurants . 3 hours at any international airport is not enough time to leave . 30-60 minutes to deal with immigration , same again on the return ( security , be at gate 30 minutes before departure etc. etc. ) leaves you with an hour . Given HKG 's location you wo n't be going anywhere .
It depends on a number of factors , but I 'd say that the odds of you making this connection is very low . 85 minutes just is n't realistic for such a connection in most cases at SFO . UA862 from HKG hits SFO right on peak hour . In the hour before it lands there are at least 5 other flights arriving at the same terminal , and feeding into the same immigration area - all of them widebody aircraft generally carrying 300 + people each . If you are entering the US using the Visa Waiver Program , and if you have entered the US on the same passport in the past ~ 8 years , then you can use the APC kiosks instead of the normal immigration lines - but even that could be a 20-30 minute wait at that time of day . If you have to line up in the visitor line , then it could be anywhere from 10 minutes ( if your flight happens to land first of all of the other flights , which is extremely unlikely as it 's scheduled to land last ! ) up to over an hour . Your bags will likely not be an issue - by the time you get through immigration they will most likely already be ready . Presuming no issues , collecting your bags , going through immigration , and dropping off your bags again should take no more than about 5-10 minutes , then another 5 minutes to get to security in the domestic terminal . Security in the domestic terminal will depend on the day of the week , but at that time of day , for someone without TSA PreCheck and without ' priority ' , will probably take somewhere between 20-30 minutes , although could be more or less . And then finally , United Airlines requires you to be at the gate 15 minutes before departure . If you are not there at that time , they can ( and will ) off-load you and give your seat to someone else - especially on flights like SFO-IAD where there is normally a long standby list . So your 85 minutes is really only 70 minutes . I wo n't say that this connection is impossible - if the stars all happen to line up perfectly then it 's doable . But odds are you 're not going to make it . If that happens , United will put you on a later flight - but keep in mind that could be many , many hours later . There SFO-IAD flights generally run very full , so there may not be seats available until much later in the day , or even the next day .
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
If your inbound flight lands on time , let 's make a rough calculation : 20 minutes to exit the plane / airport ( could be more during peak hours ) 30 minutes to get to Munich downtown ( again could be more during peak hours ) 30 minutes to get back to the airport 1h00 at the airport for the security checks So this leaves you approximately 3h00 in Munich . But you need to take into consideration few points : I took an optimal timing ( ie landing on time , no commuting issue and minimum time at the airport ) . If you plan to exit the airport , I would suggest you to take on your luggage with you because if for any reason you are n't able to take the second flight , then the company will have to take your luggage out of the plane ( which is a pain for them ) and then you 'll also miss your luggage if you have to stay overnight in Munich . So you are n't forced to take your luggage with you but I would recommend you to do so ...
Yup , with 12 hours it 's very feasible and I would definitely go for it . In order : Yes , there is a " <URL> " outside arrivals , rates $ 2-6 / day depending on bag size . However , why not just check in your bags for your next flight immediately , and only then set off to explore ? The easy public transport option is <URL> , $ 9 return including unlimited public transport in Montreal for the day , travel time 45 minutes plus depending on traffic . If you 're really pinching pennies you can take bus 204 to the nearest Metro station and connect ( $ 3/one-way ) , but this is more hassle than it 's worth . Customs/Immigration time varies wildly , but if it takes over an hour you 're having a really bad day . Flights from Mexico may get some extra attention though . If you already have checked in before you left the airport , an hour should suffice . Otherwise you might want to allow two hours . ( Official recommendation is three hours , but this is a bit silly . )
I found a decent ticket , 12 hours , direct from YVR to NRT , for $ 1200 CAD . Thinking I should snatch that up . $ 1,200 CAD should be considered a reasonable round-trip price from North America to Japan . Sometimes you see lower ( though rarely below $ 1000 ) , and sometimes much much higher . I would say that is around the average price these last few years , based on the flight price research I periodically do for myself or acquaintances making the trans-Pacific hop . I always hear different things . Early ? Late ? Certain time specific to the season ? You likely hear different things because there are very few universally applicable rules to flight-pricing , especially for trans-Pacific flights . Sometimes the best price is six months in advance , and sometimes it is a few weeks - it mostly all depends on that particular flight . I can say for sure that the most expensive time to fly to/from Japan is the New Year 's season , the first week of May ( Japan 's " Golden Week " ) , and the middle of August ( Japan 's " Obon " Festival of Lights ) . Scoring an average-price ticket during these times will be harder than most other times of the year . However , September is not an unusually busy season in Japan . 2 ) A friend may want to come with me by buying a ticket in 1 month from now . Does it sound like it should be OK ? I figure he probably ca n't get the seat beside me at that time , or maybe even the same plane One month in advance is pushing it a little bit , but it is not unheard of to find a reasonable ticket only one month in advance . I advise buying sooner if possible , and it is very unlikely that you 'll be on the same airplane ( or if you are , your friend would have to pay a lot of money ) .
end question
start question
Why do passports expire ?
The simple answer is that it 's because the International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO ) - the global organisation that is responsible for settings standards for passports - recommends that they should be valid for no more than 10 years . For example , the ICAO " <URL> " states that : Passport Validity Period [ ... ] Recommended Practice 3.16 - Contracting States should normally provide that such passports be valid for a period of at least five years ... Note 1 -- In consideration of the limited durability of documents and the changing appearance of the passport holder over time , a validity period of not more than ten years is recommended Of course the question then becomes why does ICAO have such a requirement ! In addition to the obvious reason that the biometric data on the passport ( at a minimum , the photo ) will be out of date after a period of time , the primary reason for expiring passports is likely to be that it allows the underlying technology to change without there being too many legacy passports in circulation . For example , most countries started implementing " Machine Readable Passports " in the 1980 's . Given a maximum expiry of 10 years , that meant that by the year 2000 it could be guaranteed that people from most countries had an MRP , and thus countries could start to enforce their use - such as how the US did in the mid-2000 's . If passports had a 20 + year expiry , then even today there would n't be a guarantee that people would have MRPs . The same is true for " electronic " passports . For example , Australia started issuing these in 2005 , which means by the end of 2015 countries will be able to enforce that Australian passports must be electronic . Expiring passports also reduces the number of stolen/forged/etc passports in circulation - both due to the expiry of those that are in circulation , but also by enforcing newer anti-forgery standards for new passports .
The latitude is less likely to matter than the time of the month . If it is at or near new moon , you will not see the moon at night . The " wrong side of the plane " reason can be seen as a subset of the " small window " reason , so I would say it is a combination of the small window ( combined with the plane 's orientation ) and the point in the lunar cycle at which you are flying . To improve your chances of seeing the moon in the future , fly during or near the full moon , and , if you have an east-west flight , sit on the port ( left ) side of the plane in the Northern Hemisphere , or the starboard ( right ) side of the plane in the south . If you are flying from west to east , reverse that . The full moon will be lower in the sky near the summer solstice ( late June in the north ; late December in the south ) . It will rise later and set earlier , too . If you try to see the full moon in the winter , near midnight , it is likely to be too high , unless you are very close to the pole . If you are flying a north to south route near the full moon , the moon will be in the east ( to your left ) in the early evening , overhead near midnight , and to the west ( right ) as dawn approaches . Again , if you are flying from south to north , reverse that . To see a dramatic crescent moon , fly a few days after the new moon on a route where you can look west just after sunset . Or , fly a few days before the new moon on a route where you can look east just before sunrise .
The one year validity was originally set in the <URL> and agreed upon . Anyway , in the 1968 convention of the same topic it was changed to no more than 3 years validity after the date of issue or until the date of expiry of the domestic driver 's license , whichever is earlier , but it seems that this is not followed . From <URL> According to the 1949 Convention on Road Traffic , an IDP remains valid for one year from the date of issue . However , according to the Vienna Convention , an IDP remains valid for no more than three years from the date of issue , or until the expiration date of national driving permit , whichever is earlier . An IDP is not valid for driving in the country where it was issued .
According to some studies , tomato juice , and many other foods , <URL> ( better in the case of tomato juice ) under the low pressure conditions in an airplane than they do at home .
As a cabin crew member , I have first hand experiences with real turbulence , both anticipated and unanticipated . The story of asking passengers to fasten seatbelts is not about people being thrown off their seats only , here are the reasons : Flying people Passengers and crew can literally fly around the cabin in real turbulence causing injuries not only to themselves but to other passengers who are sitting and buckled up . A few years ago I had a sudden serious turbulence over the Gulf of Bengal and I was with a few other crew members at the back galley having our meal after we finished the service , two of us hit the ceiling ! it was B777 wide body and the ceiling is quite high , luckily none of us was seriously injured . When we went out to the aisle to check passengers , Many of them who did n't fastened the seatbelt were literally on top of other passengers in other rows because of the turbulence , none was seriously injured but there was a big potential for that . The seatbelt sign was off when it happened , but that 's not an excuse , in that specific airline as in many others , the seatbelt rules are " fasten your seatbelt when the seatbelt sign is illuminated , or while seated at all times " . Seatbelts are actually meant to be fastened at all times , except when you really have to move ( toilet , etc. ) . Anyway , crew members are the usual victims in turbulence since most of them would be standing and closer to the ceiling . I know some colleagues who had serious injuries that almost caused them disabilities . So , to sum that up , seatbelts are really important in preventing some turbulence related injuries . Making it easy for the crew When there is light turbulence or bumping , even if the pilots know for a fact it is light and would never cause any one to be flying around the cabin , they need to put the sign on just to make things easier for the crew to move around , especially if it is during service time . In flights with hyperactive passengers , crew sometimes put the seatbelt sign on just to make people sit for the same reason . Turbulence will be the excuse here , but in reality , it is not a danger and the proof for that is seeing the crew in the aisle with carts serving people ;) Again , airline pilots tend to put their airlines in the safe side , so the lightest possible sign of a turbulence will be taken seriously and people would be asked to put their seatbelts on so insurance companies can cooperate better .
Until few months ago , french railways had the monopoly of long distance travel . This has changed recently and Eurolines now offers <URL> .
<URL> : What if I hold dual or multiple passports when using arrivals SmartGate ? Non-Australian citizens If you are a dual passport holder -- aged 16 years or older and hold an ePassport from an eligible country -- you can use arrivals SmartGate . At the kiosk , be sure to use the same ePassport you presented when checking in to your flight to Australia . Australian citizens If you are an Australian citizen , you must use your Australian passport to enter Australia . If you are aged 16 years or older * and hold an Australian ePassport , you can use arrivals SmartGate . At the kiosk , be sure to use your Australian ePassport . * Australian children aged 10 to 15 years ( inclusive ) can use arrivals SmartGate if they hold an ePassport and are accompanied by a minimum of two adults .
Not all of them do . It definitely depends on which site you use , and what style of accommodation you are after . Generally , people going on holiday often have someone with them - a significant other , so often it 's based on 2 people sharing . Especially vacation prices . However , if you 're looking for say , hostels , it 's on a per-person basis ( eg <URL> ) . And if you 're looking at hotels for a single person , <URL> allows you to sort on a per-single-person room for prices , which I 've found useful in the past .
There are many possibilities here , and there 's no definitive answer , travel pricing is complex enough just looking at flights when you start talking bundles it gets worse . First off , this is n't impossible but it 's also not always the case , depends on where you 're going , for how long and what time of year ( also what particular days , weekend/weekday ) . So I 'd just accept it , be pleased and move on . You 'd have to check the conditions on your confirmation to see if you need to stay at the hotel , but the most you 'd likely have to do is check-in / check-out nobody will check you 're actually staying in the room . So why the low price ? First you 're booking something on short-notice , generally that means higher prices . Perhaps Expedia have a deal with the airlines where they pre-buy X seats on a given route at a much lower price a long time ago . Expedia knows from experience that they can sell enough to cover the costs , the airline knows that they have some guaranteed money which is good on flights that might not otherwise sell out . The same goes for hotels . I 'm assuming the flight you 're getting is the same as one of the ones you priced separately -- i.e. Expedia has n't given you a charter flight or linked two different ends together . It may just be that Expedia gets a discount from some airline that 's not available to people booking directly . As I said , there are lots of possible reasons , if you let us know where you were going ( and where from ) it might be possible to come up with something more specific .
You will need to show visa documentation to board the flight to Canada . Assuming the rest of your family is traveling on your Pakistani passports and if your Iqama status is noted in those passports , the airline may wish to see his Pakistani passport as well at check-in to make sure he is documented to leave . But they should accept his US passport as proof of permission to enter Canada . The question would be if Saudi Arabia requires proof of travel upon your return . This happened to us in Africa , as my daughter used her second passport to avoid visa issues , but then was hassled since her exit visa from the previously visited country was not in the passport she presented to enter the next country .
The use of satellite phones violates the <URL> , the <URL> , the <URL> , and the <URL> . The <URL> because of several recent act of terrorism . Use of satellite phones for personal and commercial use is prohibited in the country . Only security agencies and defense forces can use it legally . To use any sort of satellite phone , permission has to be taken from the Department of Telecommunications ( DoT ) . Please check out this <URL> also .
You can travel the NS train either by buying a single ticket , or by using an OV-chipcard ( Dutch : " OV chipkaart " ) . If you buy a single ticket it does n't matter . If you travel with the OV-chipcard ( as most people do ) , you pay for the distance you travel . The system needs to know how far you 've traveled so you " check out " when you leave the platform . The official who checks your ticket or card on the train just does so to check if you have a valid ticket ( but obviously does n't know at which stop you 'll get off ) . Note that a single ticket is always $ 1 more expensive than traveling by OV-chipcard . An OV-chipcard is usually $ 7.50 , but sometimes they 're discounted . So depending on the amount of traveling you 're doing , buying a chipcard might be more economical ( they 're valid for 5 years ) . You can only exit the station when you scan or swipe your ticket . Here in Rotterdam but more and more stations in the Netherlands are getting this system .
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
I assume the numbering of mileposts is to match the numbering of the U.S. Interstates themselves -- west to east interstates , which have even-numbers , are numbered from south to north ( i.e. I-10 runs through southern states , and I-90 runs through northern states ) . Likewise , south to north interstates , which have odd-numbers , are numbered from west to east -- I-5 runs along the west coast , and I-95 runs along the east coast . Note that this is the opposite of the US Highway system -- north to south routes grow larger from east to west . US Highway 1 is on the east coast , and the old US Highway 99 ( which is now no longer a US Highway ) ran along the west coast . Likewise , US Highway 14 runs through several northern states , and US Highway 82 runs across several southern states . I believe the reason the Interstates were numbered opposite of the US Highways was to avoid confusion , i.e. when talking about route 5 along the west coast , you know the person is talking about an Interstate , not a US Highway .
First of all , " explosive detectors " , be it ion-mobility spectrometer or specially trained dog , do not typically detect explosives , they detect chemical markers ( aka taggants ) , which <URL> . The idea of these detectors is that they are used for screening , which means you want to have low rate of false negatives ( ie . people who actually have explosives but came through undetected ) sacrificing that for relatively high rate of false positives ( ie . people who do n't have explosives , but preliminary scan marked them for further investigation ) . Hence ion-mobility spectrometer also react to anything that pops up as " marker like " , which can be cosmetics , some kinds of paint , fertilizers etc. .
I have encountered this practice in the past as well . Once I actually talked to them about the reason for it . In that particular hotel , this was encouraged , but not required . They explained that there were two reasons ( for that particular hotel ) : It 's much easier for them to know when the guests are out , so they can go and clean the room . They have had cases when the maid would knock on the door , receive no answer , and open the door with her own key -- just to find the guest still in the room , often in a state rather not expecting anyone to come in ( this did include on a few occasions walking on people having sex ) Minimise the risk of the key being lost/stolen . This reduces the cost in the long run - both in term of the keys/locks needing replacing , but also the liability . In that hotel , the keys were quite distinctive , clearly showing the hotel name and the room number on the key . If a key is lost , whoever finds it can just come in to the hotel , go to the room and steal something - and the guests would hold the hotel liable for the stolen property . The sign at the reception actually stated that the hotel would bear no responsibility for guests ' property left in the room unless the key was handed to the reception upon leaving the hotel .
Got it both on the passport and visa sheet ( top right Corner )
Firstly , not all airlines do . I booked a Philippines Air flight ( through Expedia ) last night that did n't require I enter my physical address . So now that we 've established that , we can look at those that do , and why . In case of disaster . Some airlines ask for an emergency contact name and phone , others merely ask for your physical address . It 's another way of figuring out how to contact next of kin . Indeed when I went through an experience in South America , Interpol and the NZ Police used residential addresses to ensure they had the correct next of kin . For correspondence , mailing and advertisement . While some of us prefer the electronic world , it 's so easy to delete emails - they know you 'll likely open an envelope addressed to you . American Airlines confirms this ( correspondence reason ) in their <URL> . Air New Zealand used physical addresses to send out their latest AirPoints card offer . For corporate partners . Some airlines are linked with hotel chains , credit card numbers and the like . They may share information on your travelling habits , spending habits , and help to update each others ' information . In addition , these partners may also send you junk mail . . err ... corporate correspondence , permitted by you if you ticked/didn ' t untick the right box , or agreed to some long terms and conditions . Lost baggage . In the event they need to return items to you , they have a place to send it . Your email could be blocked/hacked , phones get lost , but save for an earthquake , the luggage can at least be sent to your nearest airport . I had this in 2002 when my snowboard bag got mixed up with someone else 's . They 'd already looked up where I lived and re-routed it down to my city . If they 're smart , and have your email and physical address , they can now send you targeted marketing - cheap flight from your home city , or hotel deals through their corporate partners . Historical reasons . Remember when companies started to ask for email addresses , and we all thought that was dumb ? Now we completely expect it . But we 're also happy to continue filling out the physical address , because we 're so used to it . And they probably feel that a ) they always got it , so why would they stop and b ) the more you know about a customer , the better . I 'm sure there 's plenty of other reasons , but those are the ones I 've heard of , experienced , or read about in the past , and can think of for now :) Come to think of it , I 'm kinda surprised now that I was able to get away with it at all . They did ask for my credit card billing address , but that 's different to my physical address anyway !
I am no definite expert on the topic but this customization of a flight , called <URL> , are usually marketed to travel agents as a profit generator . First let 's clarify the different actors . The airlines offer and operate flights , the GDS ( Global Distribution System ) companies distribute the flights to travel agents and the latter sell to the traveller ( you ) . The travel agents can be your local travel agent in his office , the online travel agent ( OTA ) like Expedia , Opodo or Kayak , or the airline itself through its website , phone service or offices . In all cases the travel agent <URL> to the customer . The travel agent probably pays to implement the service distribution ( to the GDS ) and receives a fee per transaction made . As meal selection is not generally a lucrative option - it is usually free of charge and I think religious or allergic people would react badly if they had to pay to get a specific meal - it is not worth offering for the travel agents . As @drat commented , the airlines have also little incentives ( and higher logistic costs ) to offer them . So it makes sense not to offer meal choice directly online . Note that some OTAs offer a free text field at the end of the booking without promising it will be read by anyone ( I have seen that on govoyages , for example ) . In the case of Emirates and Singapore Airlines , I have in mind that their image is based on open-mindedness , globalization and respect of the culture of the travellers . I insist on the fact that it is the image I have , you might not feel the same . But offering a choice of meal is a good marketing argument for a world-wide growing airline . On the opposite , Air Transat mostly targets Canadians visiting the Caribbean and transatlantic travellers , with less of a variety of travellers . Offering a large variety of meals would be more a burden than a marketing argument to them . And Air Transat offers ancillary services on their website like seat selection , so it is a deliberate choice not to offer meal selection . In the end , I suppose that the reasons are economical . It costs less to offer less choice and not to prepare too many meals . It depends on the travel agent you buy your tickets from , but there is no rule for who offers meal selection or does not . If it matters a lot , you can try to buy your ticket from another travel agent , it might work better .
It is an ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , and as you know ICAO is the organization that standardize all international travel documents . From the document <URL> ( Machine readable Travel Documents ) which regulates all kinds of travel documents worldwide including passports : 11/II Sex of the holder , to be specified by use of the single initial commonly used in the language of the State where the document is issued and , if translation into English , French or Spanish is necessary , followed by a dash and the capital letter F for female , M for male , or X for unspecified . Anyway , there are some studies to remove the gender field from travel documents , such as the review from <URL> , things are still under study and it will take long time for this to be implemented , as such a change will require a lot of policies and procedure all over the world to be changed as well . To answer the why part , the gender field is/was important to identify the passport 's holder along with other features , some guys do look like girls with long hair and vice versa , it also reduces the risk of issuing the passport to the wrong identity or issuing multiple passports to one person , I guess the gender field is there to help in these cases . Read the review by the new Zealand passport office mentioned earlier for more details on this .
end question
start question
If I want to see the Olympic Torch in 2012 , what route is it taking in the UK ?
So I found an answer in a <URL> , although someone may have a more detailed route , especially as it gets closer to the Olympics themselves .
I 've been told by friends who have worked with cruise lines that you can always just try calling on the day , or the night before , and can often get an astonishing deal . ( It does n't always work , though . )
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
Each person has their own taste , so this questions is almost subjective . However , after living there for four years , I now know there are certain things that EVERY tourist seems to want to do or see . St Paul 's . It 's one of the greatest cathedrals in Europe , and I 've heard people say it 's their European highlight , the pinnacle of sights that they 've seen . On a Sunday you can get in free , although you wo n't have access to everywhere inside . Westminster Abbey and a photograph of Big Ben . When you come out of Westminster tube station , it 's tourists EVERYWHERE . But I suggest coming out at Waterloo station and walking across the bridge to Big Ben - you 'll get a better photograph . Westminster Abbey is just behind it , and like St Paul 's , some of it is free to access on Sunday 's . Note that only residents can go up Big Ben , and even they have to apply to their local Member of Parliament months in advance for a tour . Tower of London . My favourite tourist attraction . I spent the better part of a day here , and could easily go back for more . Get there early to beat the crowds . Right next to it is Tower Bridge - which most people think is called London Bridge . London Bridge is actually flat and boring ;) The London Eye . Giant ferris wheel next to Waterloo station , the queues are insane on weekends . This is a polarising attraction - people either think it 's a waste of money , or a must-see . I 've been twice - during day and night , and loved it . The museums . British Museum , Imperial War Museum , Natural History Museum and Science Museum are the big famous ones , but there are smaller ones too if you search around . The best part is that most of them ( including all the big ones I 've just mentioned ) are free ! The London Underground . It sounds odd , but it 's such a fundamental part of London , that you need to make sure you ride it a few times on different lines . Perhaps in from Heathrow , or to the museums , as it 's nice to walk around above ground in central London , and it 's surprising how close together everything is . Picadilly Circus and Oxford Circus . Walk through , take photo , move on . They 're famous , historic , but they only take a few minutes ;) Buckingham Palace . You ca n't always go inside , and most people claim the changing of the guard is over-rated , but there 's still something about seeing it ! The parks . Make sure to check out at least St James Park , and Hyde Park . London Zoo and Camden Market . They 're close by . Come out of Camden tube station nice and early , check out the market for a bit . Then walk to the zoo - it 's historic , and has quite a few animals you do n't see many of . Bonus sights ! Richmond Park - my favourite park in all of London . Take the tube or overland to Richmond , and ask someone for directions from there . It 's about a 20 min walk to get there , and then you 're in the largest open air space in all of Greater London , with two large herds of deer , and a protected view all the way back to St Paul 's , the Gherkin and the London Eye . Fantastic place on a clear day , or when there 's fresh snow on the ground :) Borough Market and Southbank - close to London Bridge , and open from Thursday to Saturday , the fresh food and coffee is a great start to your morning , before you walk along Southbank to Tower Bridge , or west to Waterloo . London Bridge station , Borough Market exit , west side of Borough High street .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
Yes , you should be able to do that . That 's precisely what the single market is about and , incidentally , the reason why the EU enacts so many seemingly petty unrelated rules ( EU countries have to agree on rules regarding safety , labelling , etc. so that most products can then circulate freely between them instead of setting rules independently of each other and enforcing those rules at the border ) . Information provided on the <URL> reflects this : If you 're travelling from a country within the EU , you can bring any fresh foodstuffs - fruit , vegetables , meat , dairy or other animal products ( eg fish , eggs and honey ) - into the UK . ( This being based on EU law , French rules will be similar . ) The only exceptions to this general principle are things like firearms and drugs , for which rules have n't been harmonized . Even alcohol or tobacco can be carried between countries relatively freely , provided it is for your personal use ( quantitative thresholds <URL> are only guidelines based on the notion that very large quantities are not for personal use ) .
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
The main agencies are <URL> and <URL> , although most of the individual boatyards are now on the internet , and you might get a better deal if you contact them directly . Google ' boatyard ' plus the region or the name of the waterway that you 're interested in . You are allowed to drive the boat yourself and you do n't need any kind of permit . If you have n't driven one before , the boatyard will give you a quick lesson when you pick up the boat - it 's very easy . Some of the boatyards do n't allow all-male or all-female adult groups ( i.e. no stag/hen parties ) . This answer is for the UK 's <URL> , i.e. canals , lakes and smallish rivers . The boatyards do n't allow you to take this kind of boat on large rivers ( such as the lower reaches of the Thames ) or out to sea . Insurance is usually included in the price of rental . Fuel is often extra . If you 're having the boat for more than about a week then you may need to pay to have the sewage/waste-water tank pumped out ( there are lots of boatyards that provide this service ) . Mooring is sometimes free ( e.g. at the side of a field ) and sometimes you have to pay ( e.g. at the side of a pub ) .
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
Having had this problem happen to me today due to flooding , I 've discovered the answer buried at the bottom of the <URL> . If you decide that you no longer want to travel due to the disruption : Your ticket is non-refundable . However , if the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or delayed and as a result you decide not to travel a refund will be offered on completely unused tickets and you will not be charged an administration fee . If you still want to travel : If the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or is delayed and you still decide to travel , special arrangements will be made to accommodate you on another train ( although a seat can not be guaranteed ) . If you no longer want to travel , you just need to go to a ticket office with your ticket and seat reservation for the affected train , and ask for a refund . Depending on the station , it may or may not be easy to arrange , but it is possible . Alternately , you can send in a claim ( including the ticket + reservation ) as you would 've done for a long delay , but this is likely to take longer and result in a refund in rail vouchers . If you do want to travel , it 's generally best to go to the customer services desk and get them to endorse your ticket to indicate the restrictions are lifted . They can also provide advice at the same time about alternate routes . If it 's a major problem , you ought to be fine just hopping on another train , but for localised problems it 's best to get the ticket endorsed so staff on trains + stations elsewhere know immediately what happened .
It 's very easy , and a quick google search for ' antipode ' and ' map ' will find sites that find it for you . For example , <URL> either detects your location , or you can enter one , and it 'll show you on a zoomable map where your antipodal destination is . Unfortunately as shown by <URL> , only about <URL> , and only a tiny fraction of Brazil is antipodal to Japan ( in fact , to the islands of Okinawa and Amami ) . A rather larger amount of Brazil ( but still a small fraction of the country as a whole ) is antipodal to the Philippines and Indonesia , along with Brunei , parts of Malaysia and the South Korean island of Jeju . Without knowing your exact location I ca n't be sure where it ends up . I 'll leave that last step up to you ! Another <URL> site shows it quite nicely side by side . I can click and zoom in on New Zealand and the other window zooms in at the same time to show me northern Spain - the antipode .
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
Egypt , as like much of North Africa and parts of the Middle East , is volatile . <URL> of the US has a comprehensive website detailing the latest information on the country . It points out that while crime is relatively low , there has of course been several incidents of protests , riots and political upheaval over the past year . In the end , it is always going to be a gut feel thing . Many tour companies are offering 2 for 1 deals to get people to return to Egypt . People point out that apart from an <URL> , the violence has largely not targeted foreigners . Anecdotal information from friends who have been since the uprising say that they felt entirely safe . Tour companies are going to have the latest information and will know which areas to avoid . The election may change things dramatically , but given it looks to be the first ' free ' elections in decades , it may be a good thing , with celebrations rather than protests . If you 're not going anyway until 2012 , perhaps wait . I booked a tour over Christmas 4 years ago with 2 weeks notice , and given the situation , you should n't have a problem finding a tour or flights around then . In the end , as the state department website says , " There is nobody better at protecting you than yourself . " . Be careful , keep informed , be safe .
Exchange programs and visas are unrelated . You will apply for any exchange programs as a student of Universidad de X , Mexico , and you will likely not even have to mention your nationality . But if you 're accepted , you will have to apply for the visa as a citizen of Nicaragua . Of course , both the " sending " and " receiving " universities will support your visa , so it 's quite likely you 'll get it assuming everything is in order ( respectable universities , you can prove you can afford the exchange year , etc ) .
I am living in Brazil ( Rio Grande do Norte ) and I can tell you from experience that tourist staff will not be able to understand anything beyond the most basic phrases unless this is a specialty of your hotel or resort . You 'll probably be able to get " Cardapio em ingles " ( english menu ) at almost anywhere though , with the items numbered and more or less translated understandably , the prices may well not be listed or even different than the other menu . Im in no way connected to this company , but CVC viagems is a really well known travel agent franchise who would be able to arrange payment/transit/orientations for you in the cities and major resort areas .
Depends on what you call " going Robinson Crusoe " . If it is about spending time alone on an uninhabited island , I guess the answer is " Sure " . I have met various people who did so , when they were sailing through the Caribbean . The options to do so is not limited to the Bahamas alone . I was told that it is relatively cheap to buy a yacht in that area from European sailors who after crossing the atlantic do n't feel the urge to experience yet again the gulf of Biscay . Those boats are typically quite worn out , which would add a bit to the Robinson Crusoe experience . So if it is only about being alone on a deserted island , just buy one of these boats and sail away . If " going Robinson Crusoe " , however means being lost for years , the fact that I have met various people who did spent time alone on an uninhabited island makes it impossible . Spending time on an island without being noticed by civilization for an extended period of time , is simply impossible given the number of people sailing the Caribbean . these days . PS . Robinson crusoe was stranded : " Who lived Eight and Twenty Years , all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America , near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroonoque " . The island is situated in front of the Guyana 's . There are quite some small islands over there , of which <URL> . Even devil 's island is not visible on <URL> . I have the impression that your chances on getting lost unnoticed in that area is higher then in the Bahamas . " Devil 's island is ofcourse not a good choice , but there are more of these small islands .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
As a white , Christian , American person I can definitely say that nobody would ( perhaps should ) be offended by your dietary restrictions . I have a number of friends who are vegetarians for no reason other than they decided they wanted to be . In my opinion , that is far less sacrosanct than religious reasons , and I have always made sure to accommodate them when I cook . IMO it is rude to not consider your guests ' dietary restrictions . As CGCampbell pointed out , I would say something like " I am an observant Muslim and can not have pork or alcohol in my food . Would it be possible to make something that avoids those ingredients ? "
The document you quote is aimed at those pursuing academic qualifications . <URL> , with some restrictions . From the linked document : You can : take your 30 days study in one go or over a number of shorter periods use the time for recreational courses such as activity courses or arts and crafts courses , eg horse-riding , painting or sailing study toward a qualification if the course is at an accredited institution You ca n't : use any of your 30 days to study English at an institution without accreditation
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
end question
start question
Am I allowed to take a GPU in my carry-on luggage ?
There 's <URL> So provided they are n't so heavy as to be a potential " blunt instrument " weapon , you should be ok . If they 're in original packaging , that might help . Of course , they do n't have to let any items through , restricted list or not . You may also wish to check the website of your airline , for their prohibited items list . I 'd be suprised to see any consumer electronics on there , but better safe than sorry . You 're more likley to get in trouble at the other end . I 'm not clear on the exact regulations for Switzerland , but you are likley to be liable to pay duty and VAT/Sales Tax on imported items . <URL> says that Switzerland would apply an 8 % tax to imported graphics cards . You can of course go to the " Goods to Declare " window/corridor at customs , but this may eat into your saving significantly .
Since Cathay is HK ailines and all planes are registered in HK , so they follow HK law . Based on HK Law ( <URL> ) , spearfishing gun is arm . The Sect 2 of the ordinance consider any harpoon or spear gun , however powered or size , as arm . However the law does not rule the ammunition of spearfishing gun . Base on sect 8 , you may take spearfishing gun on CX flight if you stay in restricted area . However , the items should be put in checked luggage , and also <URL> There is no other specific rules related to carry general diving equipment on flight in HK , except gas tank and arms .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
Coffee ( コーヒー kōhī ) is very readily available in Japan in a variety of forms and quality . Yes , you can find a large variety of super cheap canned coffee in vending machines and convenience stores ; however I 'd rather describe those as caffeinated soft drinks with coffee-ish flavor than as coffee . Instant and filter coffee ( " drip " coffee , ドリップ ) is very easy to get almost anywhere ; supermarkets and convenience stores sell one-cup coffee-in-filter sets you just need to add hot water to , some convenience stores sell fresh hot coffee either from a pot or a machine , " family restaurants " like Denny 's or Gusto ( ガスト ) offer full western style breakfasts ( somewhat japanized of course ) where the coffee usually comes from a machine . Most restaurants will have a standard selection of coffee on their menu , except Japanese speciality places ( like sushi or udon restaurants ) . If this is good enough for you , you 'll be able to get by just fine . Starbucks and a whole bunch of competing chains ( Doutor , Tully 's , Beck 's , Veloce , Excelsior ) are all over the place , typically at least one of them near every train station or at the local department store , except for very out-of-the-way places . You should be able to get a decent shot of coffee there in every major and mid-sized city . You can usually get your coffee hotto ( hot ) or aisu ( cold ) . Aside from those there are many independent cafés ( カフェ kafe ) every here and there . Some very old-fashioned places specialize in romanticized western coffee tradition ( dim light , counter seats and booths ) and usually carry some form of 珈琲館 kōhīkan in the name . Others are more places to socialize which incidentally sell coffee ; take your pick . A lot of these places carry the same selection of coffee , Key Coffee and UCC are big brands and often part of the signage . You may or may not get a coffee at your ryokan ; unless they 're extremely old fashioned they 'll probably have something , but whether that suits your taste or not you wo n't know until you try . Modern hotels usually have something to offer . At the very least you 'll be able to make a filter or instant coffee with hot water in your room . Should you insist on a very specific sort of beans brewed just so , you may have a bit of a hard time . But as long as standard " international " coffee ( black , latte/au lait , cappuccino , espresso ) is fine for you , Japan has enough of it . Whatever coffee you will get will probably be pretty good for what it is ; can coffee does n't compare to a fresh shot under any circumstances , but can be very nice with the right expectations . Standard restaurant machine coffee will be decent for what it is . Starbucks &amp; co. are fine for what they are . You 'll be hard pressed to find a truly terrible coffee in any category .
<URL> says Photography is no longer allowed in the tombs . Searching <URL> also indicates this being the case . Another <URL> which even mentions that in Saqqara you can bribe the guards with a few pounds only says But they all pale compared with Ramses VI , which is 50 EP by itself . RIPOFF ALTER : no photos are allowed inside the tombs . Valley of the Kings is invariably a disappointment because there is very little to see , even less that is truly impressive , lots of tourists and no photography allowed .
No . Restricted items may only be carried in checked luggage . However , Singapore Airlines permits you to check at least 30 kg for free , so I would suggest you simply check your carry-on luggage .
Yes , you are fine bringing a bag of protein powder in your carry-on . The <URL> ( which it would probably be considered ) to be wrapped and to be sent through the X-ray machine at the security checkpoint , but so long as it is <URL> it is n't banned . Note that , especially since it wo n't be in its original container , they may want to <URL> . The same goes for any powder ( e.g. powder makeup , sugar , dietary fiber supplements , talcum , Gatorade ) . It goes without saying that powders which are hazardous materials ( e.g. explosive or corrosive ) are banned of course .
Whether or not it 's advisable is totally up to you - it 's a subjective question and each person is different , so we ca n't answer that aspect . It 'll be difficult , so accept that now and enjoy the ride ;) I 've flown into Novosibirsk , and there were taxis from the airport . So as long as you have the name of your accommodation ( or address ) , preferably written in Cyrillic , you can get by quite easily . Walk up to a taxi , he 'll obviously want to know where you 're going . Show him the paper with the location on it , and ask " skolka ? " ( how much ) ? He 'll reply in Russian , you wo n't know what it is , look lost , and he 'll likely write it down , or type it on his phone . Make sure you get the price before getting in the cab - even if only an estimate . When you get there , pay , and voila , you 've made it to your accommodation ( Assuming you have some ) . Alternative option : try and befriend a local , if you can , and get a ride with them . Final option : <URL> , and get a taxi during the day . The airport has showers , and as per the link , it 's definitely possible to sleep there , just be careful about your stuff . For more information on taxi prices and the bus option , have a look at the <URL> .
There 's a bit of per-country variation , but the rule of thumb across Western Europe is that service charges are already included in the bill ( sometimes as a separate line item , sometimes not ) and it 's not necessary to tip in addition to this . If you must , and you usually would n't unless the service is really good , rounding up a euro or two to the nearest suitable number is sufficient . This is usually done only with cash , since the kind of places that accept credit cards tend to also be the kind of places with hefty service charges already in the bill , but you can usually tip by credit card as well the same way you would in the US : just write in the amount after tip and sign . Wikipedia has a fairly handy <URL> . Edit : Sigh . The OP asked about tipping in " Western Europe " , I 've summarized the rule for " Western Europe " , which is that tipping is generally not necessary . Of course there are exceptions and not every restaurant and every country is exactly the same , hence the link to Wikipedia , but the key point is that , unlike the US , you never have to leave 15 % in addition to the bill .
The prohibition applies to liquids , gels and aerosols . Since you describe the food as squidgy it will with very high probability be considered a gel and not pass . My advice is to take freeze dried camping foods in your hand luggage . Those are entirely dry and pass without any problems ( source : I do this all the time ) .
You really do n't need to bring it , soy milk is widely available at most any supermarket in Australia . You should be allowed to import soy milk if it 's commercially packaged , but you must declare it to <URL> on arrival , if you fail to declare it you may be subject to fines .
It probably depends on how your cheese grater is constructed . You can see the official list of <URL> on the TSA web site . The most relevant section seems to be the " sharp objects " section , which lists : Box Cutters Ice Axes/Ice Picks Knives - except for plastic or round bladed butter knives Meat Cleavers Razor-Type blades - such as box cutters , utility knives , and safety razor blades ( disposable razors and their cartridges are permitted ) Sabers Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches Swords - cutting or thrusting weapons , including fencing foils I suspect most cheese graters ( like the <URL> and <URL> ones below ) would not be technically classified as a sharp object . However , <URL> likely would be considered ' sharp objects ' . It also almost certainly depends on the judgement and mood of the person on duty who checks your bag . I was once forbidden to take marshmallow cream in my carry-on , because it was " liquid . " ( Try pouring marshmallow cream , and then tell me its a liquid ! )
According to the <URL> : U.S. driver 's licenses may be used in Guatemala for a period of thirty days . So the officer was right . Anyway , according to the same page , you have three options to drive there after the thirty days : International Driver 's Licenses : We understand that Guatemala recognizes the International Driver 's License , which is available in the United States through chapters of the American Automobile Association ( AAA ) . When driving with an International Driver 's License , a valid U.S. state license should also be carried . Temporary Driving Permits or Permisos : The Guatemalan National Civil Police can issue temporary permits or permisos to foreigners who hold valid driver 's licenses from another country and who need to drive in Guatemala beyond their initial thirty day period in the country . Such permisos cost Q30 per month of validity , and may not be issued for a period in excess of the applicant 's authorized stay ( i.e. , the term of their visa ) in Guatemala . There are tramitadores in Guatemala City and elsewhere who may be able to assist an applicant in obtaining such a permiso . When driving with a permiso , one must carry one 's valid foreign driver 's license in addition to the permiso . Permisos can be obtained at : Departamento de Transito Galerias del Sur Calzada Aguilar Batres 34-70 , Zona 11 Tel. (502) 2320-4545 www.dtransito.gob.gt Guatemalan Driver 's Licenses : At the present , we have been advised that the Department of Transit of the National Civil Police will only issue Guatemalan driver 's licenses to persons who are properly documented as residents of Guatemala . Persons who have applied for Guatemalan resident status , but who have not yet been granted that status , are not eligible for Guatemalan driver 's licenses . When applying for a Guatemalan driver 's license , in addition to the application form , foreign residents of Guatemala need to provide the following documents and information to the Department of Transit : ( i ) six cedula-sized photos ; ( ii ) the applicant 's blood type ; ( iii ) whether the applicant is allergic to penicillin ; ( iv ) a photocopy of the applicant 's passport or cedula ; and ( v ) a valid foreign driver 's license ( to avoid having to take the written and driving tests again ) . An applicant will also need to submit to a vision exam .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
It 's difficult to give a concrete , sourced answer to this without knowing which country we 're talking about . However , in most cases , I would n't worry about it if I was you , as long as your main intention is tourism . If you 're very keen on being careful , you could contact the embassy of whatever country you 're going to visit . But this has the very real danger of complicating the visa application process when the time comes . Maybe ask them after you 've returned ? ( <URL> ) The situation might change a little if you become known as someone selling photographs on the side ( For example , if you have a website , etc. ) This still seems very unlikely , though , but some countries will demand that all persons who are known to work in related professions visit on a journalist visa , regardless what they claim any given trip is for . For example , two years ago my mother , who works in publishing , wanted to visit India , purely as a tourist . The Indian Embassy demanded that , due to her profession , she did so on a journalist visa , regardless of her stated intentions for the trip . Now , since you probably are n't working in media , even this would n't apply to you . But if you got into the habit of selling photographs , had a website , or were otherwise known as someone making money from photography , it 's not impossible ( though still very unlikely ) that it could happen . Mostly though , if the main intention of your trip is tourism , most countries wo n't mind , let alone notice , if you happen to end up selling some of the photos you took as a tourist . I find it extremely unlikely that any government is gon na track down an amateur photographer after a trip and say " Hey , what kind of visa were you on when you took that photo ? " And even if it did happen , it 's such a gray area that you 'd be unlikely to get anything worse than a warning .
This <URL> in a <URL> thread on flyertalk shows a boarding pass which indicates a personal item is allowed : <URL> and others posted in positive too . Unless something changed in the last year ( and there 's no trace of that ) you are good to go .
I think I found the answer . Most airport has this facility where you can drop-off ( store ) your carry one and pick it up before flight . There is usually a fee for it . <URL> 9 pounds/day <URL> 20 durham/day
The rental desk often wishes to see that the credit card is issued in exactly the same name as the driving licence . If you and your father share a name or a first initial it would probably be acceptable , but it seems to me a bit risky . A better solution is to ask your father to take out a second card on the same account , but in your name . This is called a " supplementary card " . He will be liable for any spending that you do , but the card will be in your name .
No . I think in a previous thread you mentioned that you had EXP status , which is a One World Emerald tier . 1W 's published <URL> include priority check-in , preferred boarding and seating , priority standby/waitlisting , and lounge access -- but not free upgrades . To get into Premium Economy , you 'll most likely need to pay for it , either by upfaring your existing booking or paying at check-in where available . ( BA may also sell upgrades at the gate or even on-board , but I 'm not sure ) . There is a slim chance you might get moved up if the WT cabin is oversold , but you 'll be far down the list . First , a word on terminology . Products like AA 's Main Cabin Extra , UA 's <URL> , and Delta 's <URL> are more of a preferred seating scheme than true premium economy . They give you the identical seat and service level of any other economy seat , book into the same fare classes as regular economy , and are differentiated only in that you have several inches of additional legroom ( and may board in a separate boarding group , since the seats are usually clustered together ) . True Premium Economy such as on <URL> , <URL> , or <URL> is a separate cabin between regular economy and business , booking into higher fares and offering upgraded seats , IFE , and/or food/drink over regular economy . Merely having a certain credit card is enough to get you into United Economy Plus , but do n't expect to get into <URL> without paying extra , any more than you would expect to get into business or first . Second , remember that alliance privileges are a subset of airline privileges . Most airlines will treat their own frequent flyers differently from ( better than ) those of alliance partners ; AA , for example , grants automatic status-based single class upgrades for Executive Platinum members on domestic flights , but does not extend that privilege to OneWorld Emeralds ( e.g. EC Gold , Qantas Platinum ) . Why should BA give AA members more than AA gives BA members ? For its part , even for operational upgrades , BA reportedly <URL> . Third , complimentary upgrades are a rarity on European and Asian carriers in general . They have a different business model for the premium cabins from the U.S.-based carriers , owing to differences in market structure and customer preferences , and simply giving away access is not in the offing .
You can take your bike on Dutch trains . Folding bikes that do n't take more space than a normal piece of luggage travel for free , but they must be fully folded during the trip . However , for normal sized bikes you need to buy a bicycle day ticket ( " dagkaart fiets " ) which costs 6 , - and can be bought from the ticket vending machines . You will of course also need a ticket for yourself . You need to load the bike in the special bicycle section of the train ( marked by bicycle decals on the outside ) and you are not permitted to take your bike with you during rush hour . ( 7:30 - 9:00 and 16:30 - 18:00 ) . BTW , if you want to get from IJmuiden to Groningen , why not board the train in Haarlem ?
end question
start question
How accessible are the dirt-road parts of Iceland 's ring road ?
4 hours is a bit optimistic , especially taking the ring road ( highway 1 ) . If you take the Öxi shortcut ( road 939 , not always open in winter ) along the way , maybe 4.5 hours . More like 5 if you stay on the ring road . This assumes you obey the speed limit . I 'd advise you to do so as the roads can be tricky , especially for drivers who are n't used to them . This stretch of the ring road is the only one that still has a few gravel stretches . They keep surfacing more and more of it , so I 'm unsure how much is left . Should n't be more than 40-60 km ( not contiguous ) . The speed limit is 80 km/hr on gravel roads ( 90 on surfaced ones ) . Personally , I 'd choose a more scenic route and go via Fáskrúðsfjörður and take Suðurstrandavegur ( road 96 ) along the coast . Quite stunning views . You just take road 92 at Egilsstaðir and then turn onto road 96 as you enter Fjarðarbyggð . It only adds about 70 km ( an hour ) over the shortest path via Öxi and is well worth it , especially if the weather is nice .
Airlines will bump up a departure time if they feel they can get the plane out earlier . It helps their on-time performance stats and gets everyone to their destination a little earlier . But this is done only when they are certain everyone will be onboard earlier . The decision would likely be based on 1 ) all originating passengers have checked in XX minutes before the flight 2 ) all flights with connecting passengers have arrived at the airport XX minutes before the flight 3 ) the aircraft is at the gate cleaned and fueled before the new boarding time commences . In addition the airline needs to get clearance from Air Traffic Control for an earlier pushback , departure and arrival slot . So it is not something they do on a whim and would n't be done if there was risk of leaving passengers behind .
There are numerous hiking trails in Iceland , ranging from easy half-days to strenuous multi-day affairs . The website of the <URL> lists several options , but the list is nowhere near exhaustive . The most notable route is <URL> . I 'd certainly recommend a proper nature hike over walking the ring road . It ca n't be much fun to walk alongside all that traffic . If you do go hiking in Iceland ( and especially if you are not a part of a tour led by an experienced guide ) make sure that you are well prepared , that someone knows your itinerary and check in regularly , and keep up with weather reports . Hiking in Iceland can be dangerous if proper precautions are not followed .
The belgian tv production company <URL> , has a daily " news show " called <URL> . In this daily show they have odd items . Last year they followed two guys who drove from Calais 8500 km to the end of the E40 . A brief search on google , did n't show the existence of a DVD of this road doco . Maybe you could write them and ask if they have the series available .
South Coast cities famous for surfing and great beaches : Malibu - you must check out the regional classic point break at the Malibu Lagoon . Contests are held throughout the year and surfers are crowding for the best waves at other times . Finding affordable accommodation is tricky , but the <URL> seems about the best cost vs distance option . Santa Monica - more touristy than Malibu and with the famous pier , the promenade stretches a couple of miles to Venice Beach . Cheapest I can find is the Pacific Sands Motel , 1515 Ocean Ave. , ☎ (310) 395-6133 with rooms from $ 55 , Pacific Beach - numbers surge in summer , especially at the Tourmaline Surfing Park . <URL> is a chain of hostels here , and is probably your cheapest option . Santa Barbara - There 's actually a hostel here ( Santa Barbara Tourist Hostel ) , with <URL> . Newport beach and more . to check these out , have a look at the <URL> . Highlights on the Central Coast : Big Sur - a small town where tourists can get away from it all ( albeit with other tourists ) - perched on a cliff over the ocean . To be fair , the surfing here would be a bit rubbish but it 's a highlight on the way down the coast . Monterey ( in Monterey Bay ) - with five public beaches , there 's tons to do here . As much as I dislike promoting HI Hostels , there 's one here called Hostelling International Monterey which seems like the best budget accommodation . Santa Barbara - There are numerous beaches in the area fit for surfing and several companies that rent surfboards . Although the surf tends to be much smaller in the summer , it is perfect for beginners . There are also several nice long board breaks that are suitable year round . Impressively there 's a <URL> as well ! Santa Cruz - a variety of beaches , some of which are a surfer 's paradise . The Surf Museum is here too . Easy waves for novices in summer , big breaks in winter especially in front of the lighthouse . Worth noting that it 's illegal to sleep in your car here , so you 'll need a hotel - best I can find is the <URL> - the Dream Inn is too touristy and some view it as overpriced . Of course there are lots of beaches all along the coast , and as you drive down you may spot a beach that looks amazing . If you find a gem , feel free to add it to this page !
Yes , you can , it even seems to be the expected behaviour . All three alliances have restrictions and rules , from basic expected ones like a maximum number of miles to some random and precise ones like a forbidden combination of carriers ( " When a QF ( Qantas ) marketed , NU ( Japan Transocean Air ) operated flight is part of an itinerary , IB ( Iberia ) ticket stock can not be utilized . " ) . Overall , the same basic conditions regarding flight planning apply to all three alliances : you should get the first ticket about a week before your first flight ( a priori a firm booking with a specific flight on a specific date ) , you should plan all the stops you are going to make , in advance , but not necessarily the dates ( and exact flight number , or even carrier ) . It does not mention precisely how to make these changes for free ( online or at the airport ) , even though the mention of " local fees " probably means you can at least show up at the airport and book a specific flight for an extra fee . Here you can see in details each alliance policy and conditions page : for <URL> , look for " 4.1 . Change of Plans " in the help and it mentions that " Change of travel dates , carriers or flights is free of charge . " ( I suppose that " flight " means in fact flight number ) . for <URL> , the fees for changes are : " USD 0 for date/time/flight number changes ( other than the first sector ) ( local service fee may apply ) " for <URL> , " All remaining flights may be left open ( i.e. without confirmed flight numbers and dates ) , as long as each flight is reserved prior to departure . Tickets can be booked or issued up to one hour before departure in some countries . " So in the end , the change of flight is a basic allowed modification of round-the-world tickets . However , be careful with all rules that apply , it might be worth reading the terms and conditions when you picked an alliance , as buying such a ticket involves thousands of dollars and may impact months of travel .
You can find the schedules on the webpage of <URL> , the company running this train . On such a trip I would not worry that much about timeliness . The train stops plenty of times on the road for sightseeing . If ever it is late there should be room to catch up the delays . This is also stated in the <URL> . As far as safety is concerned , you can be sure that the petty crooks you worry about wo n't be able to get on board . As a regular passenger they wo n't because the price is way too prohibitive for them and I do not know how they would do as stowaways ... Okay , the staff might steal , but that risk also exists in hotels . This risk should be smaller on the train , as they will have much more trouble to hide the stolen goods ... Anyway , for the money it costs , one can assume that the trip is well planned and organized and that you should not care about schedules . Moreover , you can assume that the company will do an awful lot for their customers ' safety .
According to Lonely Planet , a Taxi in Bulgaria costs around 0.70 lv per minute at night in Sofia " The rates per kilometre may range enormously from one taxi company to another , but the standard rate is 0.59 lv per minute in the daytime , 0.70 lv per minute at night . " In Romania it should not be more than 2lei/kilometre ( http://www.lonelyplanet.com/thorntree/thread.jspa?threadID=1883761 ) Assuming that it takes 8 minutes to drive 5 kilometer ( assuming an average speed of ~ 37.5 km/h ) , it should you cost not more than 5.60 lv ( 2.80 Euro ) , respectively 10 lei ( 2.40 Euro ) . So I would say 3 Euros should be way enough even if it is more expensive when it is necessary to cross a border in a taxi .
The Heron Tower ( also known as the Salesforce Tower ) is the 3rd tallest building in Greater London with a roof height of 202m , and <URL> called <URL> . Entry to the bar is free , and open to the public . <URL>
<URL> As my other answer said , the larger islands ( like Wolfe island and Howe island ) are accessible by car ferry . The smaller islands ( anything where the map does n't show a road ) are mostly privately owned and not accessible to the public . The exceptions are those that are specifically open as tourist attractions . Two of the main ones are : Boldt Castle on Heart island Singer Castle on Dark island <URL> owns several of the islands and various sites in the area . They are generally accessible to the public , but do n't have much to see on them . Places open to tourists in the area of the Thousand islands include : Boat cruises out of Kingston or Gananoque Various War of 1812 battle sites Martello tower at Kingston
Well I can be evil and if people complain , I call them insensitive because I ( genuinely ) have no sense of smell ;) However , logically you do have a few options : hand-wash - a wash-cloth and some soap goes a long way , and for some reason even though the water is cold , it 's never as bad as stepping under a cold shower . deodorant , lots of it . make sure you have clean ( or your closest-to-clean ) clothes on , minimising the risk of odour , and still helping you to feel fresh . wet-wipes / baby wipes . It 's slow , but hey , if it works ... do what our salt-flats tour group did in Uyuni - made a group pact to not shower , so that nobody had to deal with the ice-cold water ( ! )
The usual commercial problem with sleeper trains is that the vehicles carry significantly fewer passengers than a seated vehicle and often either can not be used at all in daytime , or are stuck at the same capacity as they have overnight . The standard capacities for a European train carriage ( 26m long , with a toilet ) are 36 for a sleeper , 54 for a couchette ( roughly hostel-equivalent accomodation ) , 57 for a first-class seated carriage and 76 for a second-class seated carriage . The proportions will be similar for buses . This means that the sleeper cars have to earn enough money from fewer passengers doing one overnight journey to match several daytime journies for a seated car - but the sleeper is generally more expensive to buy and more expensive to run ( overnight pay for the driver , and usually attendants in addition to the guard/conductor ) . This means that fares have to be a lot higher for a sleeper to make a profit . Sleeper trains have been run by European railways as a loss-making public service , but are being wound down as railways become more commercial . Sleeper buses are going to have a similar set of problems - they will cost more to buy than a conventional bus , and will carry fewer passengers , and will have higher running costs ( at the very least , the bedding will need to be changed and washed ) - and they ca n't be used for daytime journeys , so they will probably sit in the middle of the day . That means they will need to charge a substantial fare premium over a seated coach to make a profit ( at least double and more likely triple the fare ) . In countries where there are good alternatives like car rental or cheap flights , then this is likely to limit the market . Unless they can offer something distinctive ( like an early morning arrival in a city where the airport is not allowed to have night landings ) , they may struggle to get passengers . If there is n't an existing regulatory regime for getting sleeper buses approved , then the costs of getting the government to create one are likely to be too great for an operator to be prepared to pay - and note that some countries prohibit them entirely . Germany is a really important one , as many of the likely routes in Europe would run through Germany , but the German government banned sleeper buses in 2006 .
<URL> , according to Wikitravel . There is no road or rail system . The easiest way to get around Greenland is by plane , particularly Air Greenland . In the summer , Arctic Umiaq Line passenger ships provide service to destinations between Narsarsuaq and Uummannaq along the west coast . Of course , if you got a skidoo or dog sled , you could make your own way around ;) Wikipedia actually has more information - <URL> The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways , no inland waterways , and virtually no roads between towns . It goes into further detail about the few roads that do exist : There are 150 km ( 90 mi ) of roads in the whole country ; 60 km ( 40 mi ) of the roads are paved . Two towns are connected by a 4.5 km road , Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit ; the rest are isolated .
So after talking to a friend in Port Moresby , it appears that : Alotau has daily flights from Port Moresby with <URL> or <URL> Normandy Island , he reckons you may have to charter a boat from Alotau which defeats the point of accessibility Solomon Islands also fly from Port Moresby with <URL> . Conclusion : Alotau appears to be the one to go for , in terms of both accessibility and price .
I you see the trend of tourist coming to Nepal by land in 2013 . It shows more than 200000 tourist come from land and obviously from India . There are different route for coming to the border of Nepal , Some people also take train also . There are different entering route from Delhi , some famous are Bhairahawa , Birgunj , Mahendranagar . But connecting point is Narayangarh . Rode upto Narayangarh is better safe and construction is also going for widen up . But rode from Narayangarh-Muglin-Kathmandu looks danger as Tom said above specially in Rainy season .
You can cross the Turkey-Iraq border at Silopi-Zakho and travel throughout Kurdish Iraq without any problems . In the past ( before 2008 ) , the border was a bit more difficult as the Turks and Iraqi border guards were much more suspicious of non-locals crossing , but now they do n't even look twice . You 'll get a 10-day visa on arrival at the border although it is only valid in Kurdish controlled areas . There are plenty of hotels in Dohuk , Erbil and Suleimaniyah ( and smaller towns ) of all levels of quality and you can move about easily by shared taxis . You can usually find someone who speaks English in the big cities , and Turkish is also widely spoken in addition to the local Kurdish and Arabic . Security for Western travellers has not been an issue in Kurdistan for some time . At the worst , you might get hung up at one of the check points while the police go over your documents and inevitably let you through . Just do n't leave the three safe provinces , so do n't go to Nineveh ( Mosul ) , Kerkuk or anything further south !
In general , no , you do n't have to , particularly if you 're just looking for a bed for one night , and are n't terribly picky . That said , the later you choose to pull off the road - particularly in peak travel season - the more likely you are to be greeted by that dreaded " No Vacancy " sign . ( Or , in nicer establishments , a polite refusal at the front desk . ) My typical MO when driving long distances , is to pull off the road at a rest stop or town about 2-3 hours before I intend to stop driving for the day ; ( in my case , this is usually right around the time the sun is getting low enough in the sky to blind me if I 'm driving west , so I can wait it out ; otherwise , around Sunset . ) Then , I 'll use my Smartphone ( or , if I 'm running low tech for some reason , a payphone at a rest stop and a map ) , to look up hotels that are about ~ 100 miles further along the road from where I am , and book a room online before continuing my drive . This gives me the flexibility to book same day for wherever I end up , while avoiding the occasional frustration of showing up at 9 PM to no rooms for 50 miles in any direction on a Friday night , followed by sleeping in the car in a parking lot ( it 's happened to me . It sucks . ) . All of the major US chains have pretty decent mobile sites that are geared towards exactly this sort of use . I find the IHG ( Holiday Inn et al ) , and Best Western apps are particularly good for looking a little bit ahead along a highway . YMMV . Keep in mind that in some cases , booking further in advance can give you access to better pricing or promotions , but you give up flexibility to do so .
I do n't know why there are no road maps of Iceland - but to answer the implied question of other ways of getting Iceland maps the following may be helpful . When I 've needed navigation data for Iceland I 've used <URL> , on a Garmin device . It looks like it should be possible to get them to work on a TomTom for more details see <URL> . I 've got no experience using them on TomToms so I 'm afraid I ca n't offer any more advice on how to set it up .
I actually do n't think that driving lessons would help you . The cheapest trick is just to just do it . Thousands and thousands of drivers cross either the tunnel connecting the UK and France or the different ferries , daily . In both directions it seems to work out just fine . They only need to temporarly <URL> . In some countries with neighboring countries driving on opposite sides ( e.g. UK/France , Suriname/French-Guyana ) there will be signs reminding you on what side to drive , at least on the primary roads driving away from the border . source : <URL> The trick is to drive carefully and just follow the traffic and you will be fine . Problems arise when you are alone . At least with me especially on secluded scottish roads , it happened more then once that I ended up on the right side of the road , but still , when with enough caution I was always in time to correct . I also do n't drink at all when I am driving in the UK , although the UK is n't as strict in the amount of alcohol allowed as in other parts of Europe ( 0.08 % vs 0.05 % -0.02 % ) . With respect to the steering wheel or the pedals , those are the same no matter where you drive . In the beginning you might end up switching gear in the door or starting the windscreen wipers when changing lanes , but that is only sort of funny . The main advice is : source : <URL>
The views are pretty sweet from some of the hotels . Here 's one from a room that cost me $ 25 extra for a " falls view room " : Really , it 's from the room : I 'm pretty sure it was the Sheraton . Update : since someone mentioned the Skylon tower , here 's a shot ( on a fairly old cellphone ) from the restaurant . Go up for dinner on a night they have fireworks , and you can see fireworks from above , which is very cool .
end question
start question
Need a Return Ticket at Port of Entry ?
It depends . I 've entered it several times . Inevitably I 'm asked about my travel plans , and I explain my trip . Sometimes they 've asked how and when I 'm leaving Canada . Only on two occasions have they asked to see evidence of said trip . But they have asked , and have the right to ask . In addition , many airlines will refuse to carry you to a country ( eg Canada ) if you do n't have an exit ticket as well . Simple solution if you do n't have one yet - buy a refundable plane ticket , or a megabus/greyhound ticket from Vancouver to Seattle or Toronto to Buffalo .
As far as I know , Skyteam has the same rules as pretty much every other airline or alliance : the miles for each ticket go to the person who actually uses that ticket to fly , provided they are registered in the program . It makes no difference who paid . In your example , let 's say the trip is 1000 miles long . No matter who pays , if you both register , and you both fly , then each of you gets 1000 miles . If you register and your friend does not , you get 1000 miles and your friend gets nothing . See how it works ? There is no way for you to earn miles for the ticket used by your friend , or vice versa . Note that if possible , you should register for the miles program before the trip , and add your frequent flyer numbers to the ticket . While it is usually possible to claim the miles retroactively , the process is less convenient .
You do n't need a transit visa as a Nicaraguan transiting Shanghai Pudong en route to Taipei : / 14APR16 / 1550 UTC National Nicaragua ( NI ) Transit China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) Destination Chinese Taipei ( TW ) China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of confirmed onward airline tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours Source : <URL> The same holds for travel in the opposite direction : <URL>
No visa is required for transiting in Japanese airports if you have immediate flight connections regardless of nationality . Anyway , there is a <URL> which is intended for people who have longer layovers before transiting and want to go sightseeing or resting in Japan for few days ( up to 15 days ) .
No , you ca n't . It 's a very , very busy working port , full of reversing trucks and cranes flinging about multi-ton containers , many of which contain valuable and/or hazardous cargo . Short of getting a job , the <URL> is to apply for a Temporary Pass , which requires a good reason and a company already operating in the port to sponsor you . But if you want to get close , you can go for lunch or a drink at the <URL> , which is ( partly ) open to non-members and is located right next to the Pasir Panjang bit of the port . Alternatively , take a bumboat cruise from Marina South , although I 'm not entirely sure these are still operating now that they 're building the new cruise centre there . Most tall buildings nearby will also have good views of the Keppel Terminal , although there 's no public observation deck or anything ; nobody will stop you from going up into the HDB ( public housing ) buildings at Spottiswoode Park though . The best way overall , though , is to watch <URL> on YouTube .
On the website of <URL> , in the FAQ , it details in what cases your departure is recorded or not , when you got an electronic I94 at the port of entry . If you leave the USA by air or by sea , your departure is recorded electronically . You do not need to specifically turn in the I-94 or any procedure : If you are departing by air or sea , your departure is recorded electronically . If you leave by land , this is covered by the FAQ question which suggests your departure is not recorded . There are 2 cases : either you will re-enter before the end of your allowed period of stay and this entry will be recorded , or you will re-enter after , and in that case you will need evidence you left the country : If you are not a resident of Canada or Mexico and you receive an electronic I-94 and depart via land , but do not re-enter the United States prior to the expiration date stamped on your passport , you may want to travel with evidence of your departure into Canada or Mexico . Evidence of departure can include , but is not limited to , entry stamps in a passport , transportation tickets , pay stubs and/or other receipts .
I called a cousin who works for an airline at an airport , he explained how to do this in a very safe and efficient way . Infants do not need a seat , airline require a fraction of the price paid by the adult to be paid for the infant ( ~ 10 % ) or sometimes it is free . Hence , just make the reservation for you and your wife and other passengers who need seats , and skip the infant . Once the infant is born and it is the day of the travel , head to the airport a bit early and issue the boarding for the baby on the spot , as I said earlier , airline staff will be happy to issue the boarding because there is no seat required and you can make the payment in the airport . The price should be a fraction of the that specific price you paid . So , no worries at all . Anyway , to his knowledge this is how it is done in the airline he works for and some other airlines , not sure if it is safe to assume all other airlines do it the same way , but according to him adding an infant who does not require a seat is something easy in many airline systems .
In fact , Nynäshamn certainly is not the " de facto " port of Stockholm , even for international cruise liners . Quote from the <URL> authority web site : The Ports of Stockholm comprise a number of port areas , of which Värtahamnen , Frihamnen and Loudden , as well as Stadsgården and Skeppsbron are the most prominent commercially . [ ... ] Värtahamnen , Frihamnen and Stadsgården have extensive ferry services for both goods and passengers travelling to and from Finland and the Baltic countries . Stadsgården and Skeppsbron are the points of arrival and departure for the regular scheduled cruise traffic to and from Mariehamn . In the summer Stadsgården , Skeppsbron and Frihamnen are the ports favoured by the international cruise liners . <URL> as to why your cruise ship chose to stop at such a remote port ( emphasis mine ) : Our most southern port -- the Port of Nynäshamn -- lies approximately sixty kilometres south of Stockholm . Boats transporting both freight and passengers depart from Nynäshamn . [ ... ] In Nynäshamn we can also receive the larger international cruise liners that are not able to , or do not want to , voyage through the archipelago into Stockholm . In 2010 for example , a number of vessels from the cruise company Norwegian called during May-September . I think most of them would be able to , because many of the daily ferries to Finland or Baltic countries ( such as M/S Viking Cinderella pictured below ) are very large vessels too , and they have no problems navigating through the archipelago into the more central ports of Stockholm . Edit : Well , <URL> , it 's actually quite clear why some briefly visiting cruise ships -- arriving from the south -- would rather stop at Nynäshamn . They 'd have to take a long , time-consuming detour to reach the ports closer to Stockholm ( see the maritime routes marked on the map , which approach Stockholm from northeast ) . Photo : <URL> , <URL> Or is it an important tourist attraction in its own right that should be given equal attention with Stockholm ? Nynäshamn seems to be a nice little seaside town ( population around 13,000 ) , but as a tourist attraction it 's not on par with Stockholm by any stretch of imagination . However , the <URL> about it claims ( no source cited ) that it 's " a hugely popular destination for Swedes of all ages in the summer months " . :-)
I presume you are an Indian national . According to the <URL> in a <URL> , you can use an Income certificate or bank statement : 1 . Eligibility for Applicant Nationals of India with ordinary MRP ( Machine Readable Passport ) / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , who wishes to apply for a Multiple Visa for a stay of up to 30 days and are applicable to one of the following categories : ( 1 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan in the last three years and who has ability to pay the travel expense ( 2 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan and travel records as temporary visitor to G7 countries ( except Japan ) in the last three years ( 3 ) Individual with sufficient financial capacity ( 4 ) Spouse or children of the individuals who are mentioned ( 3 ) above 2 . Necessary Documents to Submit ... ( 3 ) Applicant with sufficient financial capacity ( as mentioned 1 ( 3 ) above ) a. Application form ( with Photo ) b. Passport ( MRP / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO standard only ) c. Documents to prove the sufficient financial ability such as income certificate , bank statement , or income tax return ( and some additional documents which certify incomes such as stock dividend , pension , retirement allowance , inheritance , lease agreement , real estate register , deed of property etc. ) d. Applicant 's Certificate of employment e . A letter of explanation stating the reason of applying for the multiple visa ( f. if applying from outside of India ) documents to prove that the applicant legally resides in that country If you go through the entire document , you should have all that you need to submit an application for a visa . Good luck .
You have the right to <URL> for a Canadian passport that does not show your place of birth . This implies that having it in your passport may cause problems in some cases . The disclaimers on that page further suggest that not having it in your passport may cause problems , too . To quote from <URL> : You may request that your place of birth does not appear in the passport . However , if you chose to do so , note that : Place of birth is mandatory for entry to some countries . You should contact the consulate or embassy of every country you plan to visit to ensure that you will be allowed entry if your passport does not indicate your place of birth . You may have difficulty obtaining a visa . You may experience delays at border crossings . Wikipedia also <URL> : The People 's Republic of China will not issue visas to Canadian passport holders whose place of birth is inscribed as being Hong Kong HKG , Macau MAC or ( city name ) TWN . Accordingly , passports issued to Canadians born in Hong Kong , Macau or Taiwan now only list the place of birth , without an accompanying three-letter country code , unless upon request . ... and ... Canadian citizens born in Jerusalem have their birthplace identified only by the city 's name , with no national designation , due to the unresolved legal status of Jerusalem . So yes , in some cases it may matter , but nothing so simple as " born in Lebanon ? Denied ! "
If you travel during summer holiday season I would say forget it . All the tours are reserved , I was there in March ( the off-off season ) and they were doing a steady business . The outer parts are not ticketed , and the other castle ( Hohenschwangau ) is less busy . It is definitely worth the trip , I would say plan your travels around the ticket date , there are not all that many other attractions in the area so those destinations can be flexible .
First of all , it does n't matter where you 're flying from . What really matter is what airline you are flying with , so the short answer is : it depends . Some airlines , in an attempt to fight frauds , may ask you to show the card and if you fail to do so they CAN refuse to embark you . I once flew Royal Jordanian from Milano Malpensa to Amman and I was asked to show the credit card . Since I paid that flight with my father credit card , I did n't have it with me . They refused to embark me and I had to call home and make my father fax a self-certfication signed by him along with a copy of the credit card used to book the flight . Another time I was leaving from Amsterdam to Atlanta flying Delta and I was asked the same . That time I had my credit card with me and I pass the control flawlessly . Always read the conditions very carefully . It 's always stated somewhere if they may ask you to show the card or not . If unsure , write an email or call them . Here some examples : <URL> [ click on " What happens if I do n't comply with the credit card verification requirements ? " ] If the booker does not bring his or her card used for the booking at check-in for verification , then passengers on the booking will not be allowed to check in and will be asked to purchase a new ticket using a new credit/debit card . However , the ticket price will remain the same . A refund will then be manually processed for the earlier purchased ticket . <URL> On the Enter billing information page where the credit card details are entered , if the " Cardholder name " can be typed in , you would be able to pay for the booking even if you are not travelling . If the " Cardholder name " appears in a drop-down menu and can not be changed , you would unfortunately not be able to pay for the booking unless you are travelling . In some countries , for security reasons , the holder of the credit card used to book a ticket or group of tickets must be one of the travellers on that itinerary , and will be required to show the actual credit card at the airport check-in counter prior to receiving boarding passes . Skywards members may make a redemption booking for friends and family , and pay for the applicable taxes online with their own credit cards , if the country of departure offers credit card payment . Business Rewards administrators may also pay for their organizations members bookings by credit card , if the country of departure offers credit card payment . <URL> [ click on the credit card link ] To safeguard against credit/debit card fraud , the purchaser may have to show us the credit/debit card along with a valid photo ID . The time varies based on the billing address of the credit/debit card or the country of travel . If the purchaser is not traveling , they can show us their credit/debit card and ID at an airport ticket counter or another ticket office location , whichever is most convenient . <URL> Due to increased credit card fraud problems , Air France does not accept third party payments ( the credit card holder not being the passenger or part of the group traveling together ) . Exception : We allow payments for family members with the same surname . Please make sure the family member you book for brings the personal identifier you specified during booking to check in at the airport or to Customs and Immigration if required ( this applies to e-tickets only ) . <URL> If you have booked directly with British Airways , either through ba.com or a British Airways Telephone Sales office , and you paid with your debit / credit card you must present that debit / credit card at check-in . This is to assist the check-in process and to provide debit / credit card verification .
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
They returned to the immigration office asked some questions and apparently the receipt tells them to come back on Thursday ( 4 days time ) to collect their passports .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
You can only pass through customs ( or immigration ) through designated ports of entry . This means that unless you have a special pass ( for example , ship crews have special passes ) , you need to go through the customs and immigration process . This is a burden on you as the traveler . It does not matter where you start the journey . Your status in the destination country/territory will depend on your current nationality . For example , if you are allowed to legally reside and visit a country without a visa , you will not be an illegal alien ( to prove this though , you 'll have to provide documentation - like a passport ) . However , there will still be issues with your departure as your arrival was not legal or documented . If questioned by police you will most likely be detained and deported for illegally entering the country . As for goods ( customs ) , it is more restrictive as each country has their own rules on what goods are allowed entry customs free , which goods need to be declared and which goods are forbidden . In either way the burden is on you to make sure your travel is legal and authorized even if you do n't need a visa to travel to the country ; or your port/manner of entry was not through the normal channels .
If you are talking about the paper card that you filled out when you landed , then no . There is no need to return this . You can throw it away . There will be no issue on the next trip to Hong Kong .
I did the same last year , I just printed the ticket page and took it along to Spain . No snail mail involved .
I found <URL> . It says all rights reserved so I 'll just link to it . It clearly shows that they take coins credit cards bills I do n't see any indication of change-giving although it 's possible that is below the frame of the picture . Next to the coins slot someone has taped up a diagram of what coins are ok and they appear to be Canadian toonies , loonies , and quarters only . The bills appear to take both Canadian and US bills based on the pictures next to the bill slots - the top two have more colour and are probably Canadian $ 5 and $ 10 and the bottom three look , from a distance , like they might be US ones - $ 1 , $ 5 , and $ 10 would make sense .
You have to leave before the midnight of the 1st of August ; that means you can stay all day 1st of August , but must clear any immigration formalities before midnight .
end question
start question
Am I expected to tip wait staff in Europe ?
There 's a bit of per-country variation , but the rule of thumb across Western Europe is that service charges are already included in the bill ( sometimes as a separate line item , sometimes not ) and it 's not necessary to tip in addition to this . If you must , and you usually would n't unless the service is really good , rounding up a euro or two to the nearest suitable number is sufficient . This is usually done only with cash , since the kind of places that accept credit cards tend to also be the kind of places with hefty service charges already in the bill , but you can usually tip by credit card as well the same way you would in the US : just write in the amount after tip and sign . Wikipedia has a fairly handy <URL> . Edit : Sigh . The OP asked about tipping in " Western Europe " , I 've summarized the rule for " Western Europe " , which is that tipping is generally not necessary . Of course there are exceptions and not every restaurant and every country is exactly the same , hence the link to Wikipedia , but the key point is that , unlike the US , you never have to leave 15 % in addition to the bill .
<URL> : Antipasto - the starter Primo - first course ( usually pasta or soup ) Secondo e contorno - second course ( usually meat or fish ) with sides ( usually vegetables ) Dolce - dessert These courses can be further wrapped by serving an aperitivo ( aperitif ) before the meal , and coffee and ammazzacaffé ( literally : coffee-killing liquor ) to digest the feast . Some might call this <URL> , which gives you a good balance of carbohydrates and proteins . Other just call us gluttons , but hey food is an art . :) The linked Wikipedia article refers to the four courses as the formal meal structure . This is not exactly correct seeing as most restaurant menus you 'll come across are indeed partitioned in these four sections . It is however true that you wo n't see that many people eating so many courses during their workday lunch break . Indeed more and more restaurants catering people working in offices are now offering primo-secondo or antipasto-primo menus for lunch . Sunday lunch out with the family is a different story of course . Having said this , nobody forces you to order , let alone to eat , all four courses . You can mix and match , order just antipasto and primo , just a primo or whatever you like . You can even have a contorno instead of a secondo , if all you want are vegetables . And if you are eating with someone and ordering different ( sequential ) courses , then you can obviously ask for your primo and their secondo to be brought together .
Tipping a filling station attendant is not generally expected in the United States or Canada . Some guides <URL> it is ever expected , though others <URL> there is <URL> on the matter . Anecdotally , in all the times I 've been in Oregon and New Jersey , I have never seen or heard of anyone tipping the attendant simply for pumping gas , except to leave them the change when paying cash ( I have not used a full-serve pump anywhere else in the US or Canada in over 20 years , and can not even think of where to find one ) . Fifty years ago , a good attendant might have checked your oil and coolant levels , wiped the windshield , and checked your tire pressure in addition to filling the tank . An increase in electronic sensors and decrease in drivers ' patience over the years means such attention is rare today . In most places , " full serve " is not really full service , and simply the term used to indicate that an attendant is working the pump . With that noted , except where banned by local ordinance , attended stations charge a higher price , which is understood to cover the wages of the attendant for the basic work of filling the tank and collecting payment . Moreover , unlike a food server or barber , or even barista , there is very little social interaction with the attendant , and tipping usually accompanies more intimate or longer-term interactions . As an etiquette columnist wrote for a <URL> : Tipping is customary only if there are both full-serve and self-serve options at the station and the fuel is priced the same at both . This would exclude areas where self-serve is banned altogether ( including the entire states of New Jersey and Oregon ) , which is borne out by anecdote -- the only people who tip in New Jersey are <URL> . But when extra service is rendered , some tipping may be in order -- various guides suggest $ 1 -- 2 for cleaning the windshields , and at least $ 5 for any work involving getting on the ground or checking under the hood . As <URL> will note , tipping someone working in a service job is always appreciated , and never impolite . Pumping gas is a monotonous , fume-infused job which is at best unpleasant , so I would give some consideration particularly when the weather is hot , cold , or wet .
If you are flying economy If you have a baby flying with you : Take the first row of the zone you are setting in . First rows are usually where the fittings for the baby basinets are available . Also , you will be close to toilets to change diapers and so . If you are travelling with kids : Take a side of a row next to the window at the beginning or end of a zone . The windows too keep kids busy and the end or beginning of a zone to be close to toilets because kids are frequent pee-ers and vomiters . If you want to sleep during the flight : Take a window seat in the middle of a zone . In the middle to be away from noise ( lavatories and galleys ) and a window seat so no one bothers you to get in or out . If you are planning to stay awake during the flight : Take an aisle seat , will be easier for you to get out and in anytime you want to stretch your legs or just to get little social in the plane . You are a teacher and traveling with group of kids , like in school stuff : Group the kids in one part of the plane , and take a seat at the very other side of the plane . Travelling with the significant other : Cinema rule apply here , take two seats at the end of the plane either on the left or right . In many wide bodied airplanes the last row on the sides have only two seats due to the shape of the fuselage . No one will be sharing the moment with you ! If you are flying First or business class This is extremely different from one airlines to another , some airlines even provide shower rooms , bars and other services . You will get the best of the airline in these classes , limited number of passengers and many services . So no worries . Please note : I said zone , not class . Classes can have multiple zones , especially in economy class in wide bodied airplanes . A zone is usually the area between two sets of doors with a bulkhead separating them .
The <URL> is crystal clear : passengers must be given the possibility of opting out from a security scanner . In this case the passenger shall be screened by an alternative screening method including at least a hand search ; The UK governments , as usual in their bizarre anti freedom ways tried to resist opt outs going so far in 2010 , <URL> Earlier this month two women , one a Muslim , became the first people to be barred from boarding a flight at Manchester airport because they refused to go through a full-body scanner . but as of <URL> you can opt out at every UK airport as well .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
I live in Germany , near the Austrian border and for business and leisure I often travel to Italy , Austria , or simply along the Austrian border . Yes , it is true that there are controls , but most of what I 've seen happens on the highways ( autobahn ) . Trucks are stopped and checked ( there are also border controls in the German territory and not only at the border ) . On the trains the situation is obviously different , but the police makes a lot of effort to control everything and ensure the security of the people . I 've seen more than once a train blocked to ensure a full passport-check with at least 4 policemen entering each car . I also saw often refugees at the station gathered by police ( and sent to registration offices I guess ) . Even if the presence of the police makes me feel at ease and secure , I would not say that refugees represent a security issue , that should be clear . If by " safe " you meant instead " will I lose my money if I buy a ticket " , I 'd say that you most probably would n't ( since normally if a train gets canceled you get a refund or they find you an alternative route ) . What you may be most concerned of are delays . A lot of trains coming this way experience delays of at least 30 minutes due to border/police controls . That was before the chaos of the last 2 days . I am sorry that I can not give more advice on the Austrian territory , but I do n't know more than what the news tell me .
Consider this ; you 're going to Eastern Europe , as you mention in another comment . In Eastern Europe , like in the rest of the EU ( including the UK ) there are people living in a bit of a recession ( some might say quite a big depression ) . Like many in the UK , their thoughts are for their families , friends , how to pay their bills , and how to have fun . They enjoy their weekends , just like you . And for the most part , they enjoy meeting new people , just like ( presumably , since you 're travelling ) you . For the most part , people everywhere are just that , people . Good people . Most are happy to meet people coming to their country - after all , you 're bringing in tourism money . You 're spending in their stores , staying in their hotels , buying their food . All positive . And what of those who are n't all buzzy and happy about a foreigner ? Mostly , like in the UK , you 'll just find them apathetic . Then finally , you have the minority - the few bad apples . They exist in every country , and if you 're unlucky , you may run into them . You might even upset them . They might even do something bad to you - verbal abuse , robbery , or worse . This could happen in Eastern Europe , it could happen in London , or it could happen anywhere - and if it does , you 're unlucky . But for the most part , unless you 're in a war zone , people are good people , and living their lives just like you , and you 'll have a great time , fantastic experiences and want to do and see more . Of course , there are some things you can do . If you 're doing well financially , do n't rub it in . Do n't insult their culture , food , land or anything like that . Remember they have history , especially ex-Soviet states can be sensitive about their past . Do n't get too intoxicated and make a fool of yourself . Funnily enough - all rules that apply back at home too . Above all - have fun , Eastern Europe is fantastic !
You have basically three options : Buy a phone in Europe . If you ca n't find the one you want , buy a cheap one that will suit you until you return home , then buy the phone you really want . Consider re-selling the European phone on eBay back home to recuperate some of your cost . Buy the phone from the US , and pay import duties . If you 're particular about the phone , and you ca n't wait , this is your best bet . There 's a chance you may be able to re-claim the import duty when you leave . It is common to reclaim VAT taxes when leaving as a tourist . In principle import duties are the same , but that does n't mean it 's possible , and it 's certainly not routine , so it may be more hassle than it 's worth . Find someone traveling from the US to Europe , and have them bring it with them . Technically , they are likely subject to the same import duties ( since they 're importing a phone , and it 's not for their personal use ) , but in practice , it 's easy to fly under the radar in this case , and since you 're taking the phone out of the region again , it seems ( to me , IANAL ) within the intent of the law .
First , it will not be " straight and easy " : the Middle East is full of unstable countries , underdeveloped infrastructure , political and diplomatical issues between neighbor countries and bureaucracy . But it can be interesting to travel these routes and discover less-traveled places and meet locals nevertheless . From Europe to the Middle East The first part of your trip can be done quite easily by train <URL> ( see also <URL> / <URL> / <URL> options ) and <URL> . It 's easy to do by car too , and you wo n't have to pay huge taxes for your car in Europe or Turkey . In the other countries , import taxes on foreign cars may be very high and make it more interesting to rent a car ( and possibly a driver ) locally in each country or take public transportation / taxis / buses . Through Iran You can travel by bus easily , and <URL> where there are <URL> ( but the service seems to be <URL> <URL> ) . You can also take a plane to cross the Ormuz straits . <URL> is Bushehr-Dammam , but Bushehr is not reachable by train ( <URL> and flights exist though ) . A <URL> can be found on the <URL> . Beware of the security / diplomatic situation between your home country and Iran . Through Syria This is of course not recommended at the moment . From Damascus ( where you can arrive by train , car or bus from Turkey ) , go to Amman <URL> ( notoriously slow , taking up to ten or twelve hours for a trip that a service taxi does in less than three hours on the road , so it is really interesting only for those looking for a " train experience " ) , car or bus . There are no other passenger railway services in Jordan , so you 'll have to take cars/taxis/buses from Amman to Makkah . Through Iraq This is suicidal at the moment , and most borders remain closed or with big restrictions . Do n't attempt it . Avoiding Israel , Iran , Iraq and Syria : through Egypt While this will require from you to take boats or flights , there is also the possibility to make a detour through Egypt and to <URL> , avoiding Israel . You would have to take a ferry from Greece to Cyprus and from Cyprus to Egypt . As of now , the line between Limassol ( Cyprus ) and Port-Said ( Egypt ) <URL> . But it might reopen at some point for pedestrians . The <URL> line is also suspended . So right now your only option would be <URL> : it wo n't be easy . Saudi Arabia The trickiest part of your trip , apart from instable countries like Syria or Iraq right now , is probably Saudi Arabia itself . The only way you can cross the country by land is on a ( very rare ) tourist visa , or a work visa and permission from your employer to wander around the country . If you come on a Hajj or Umrah visa , you will most of the time <URL> . Some pilgrims arrive by land or by sea , but they are coming from nearby / poor countries where air travel is not an option for everyone , and they 're still part of a group . <URL> to Riyadh or other Saudi Arabian cities is usually not permitted during the <URL> . During Umrah , visitors may obtain permission after arrangements have been made with a travel agency to travel to other cities in Saudi Arabia . Umrah visa holders may only visit Saudi Arabia outside of the annual Hajj period . Inside Saudi Arabia , almost all your land travel will be by car , taxi or bus . The only rail connection today ( apart from the <URL> ) is <URL> , allowing you if you have the necessary visas to connect with <URL> . There are <URL> though , even if they 're not as large as the Ottoman-era Anatolian ( Istanbul-Ankara ) , <URL> ( Konya-Baghdad ) and <URL> ( Damascus-Mecca ) railways yet ( the only other neighbor country involved in today 's projects being Jordan ) . Israeli visas or stamps in your passport , or an Israeli birthplace will have your visa request or entry denied . You may be able to have you entry stamp to Israel put on a separate sheet of paper , but <URL> so prepare for changing plans if you go that route ! Note that tourist visas to Saudi Arabia are not typically granted , and I did n't hear of tourist visas for individual travelers yet . This may be changing in the future , in light of the <URL> and the recent acceptance of large tourist groups . You can get all information regarding visas and associated fees from the <URL> . Note also that unless traveling <URL> , women will have the most difficult time getting a visa into Saudi Arabia ( it 's easier if they are old , but not guaranteed nevertheless ) . Women will be required to wear an abaya ( full face and body cover ) once they get off of the plane and in all public places throughout their stay . Men should not wear shorts in public or go without a shirt ( think of taking clothing like the one you require for visiting a mosque for your whole trip inside KSA ) . Men and women who are not relatives are not allowed to travel together in Saudi Arabia if <URL> are not with them at all times . Finally , you have to be a Muslim ( and prove it through a certificate delivered by your imam if your name does n't sound Muslim ) to enter Makkah and Madinah .
As pnuts posted this <URL> is pretty accurate . I 'd like to add to the taxi section that taxify is now available in Budapest which is like Uber except for the all around evilness of Uber . Summarized : Sit-down eateries : 10-15 % ( as befitting service ) but be mindful of " szervízdíj " ( service charge ) which is often already added to the bill . No need to add a second tip in the latter case . Give 500 Ft to a bellhop carrying luggage from the lobby to the room or back . Taxis : ~ 5-10 % of the total fare , or round up by about 100-200 forints for a typical ride of ten minutes or less . My experience : if you do not want to be generous you can stop here , the rest of the list is ... more optional . I was Hungarian too , now Canadian , visiting often so I have some ideas . Leave 2-300 Ft per day for the housekeepers at the end of your stay . If you use the hotel concierge , at the end of your stay tip 500-1000 Ft. Airport shuttle driver : tip of 200-500 forints , especially if they assist with loading and unloading your luggage . 5-10 % of the total charge for a limousine or other specialty vehicle . Bartenders : round up to the next 100-forint denomination above the total charge . Fancy club or cocktail lounge : 200-forint-per-drink bonus will suffice at almost any upscale bar nationwide Cloakroom attendants : 50-forint coin is enough if a tip jar or tray is provided at the counter . I am skipping restroom attendant , this reads crazy . Delivery services : A 200-forint gratuity is enough unless you deliver to BFE . In the latter case , I add 10 % and round up the nearest 100Ft . Most everything else : as you can it works to the same beat , if you got very good service , a few hundreds or just rounding up is fine .
Without any relevant exception I can think of , there is no such thing as an " area between land borders " . A land border between two countries follow in almost all cases a very well defined path and what you actually mean is the area between two border control posts . If you e.g. locate the border crossing on E75 between Hungary and Serbia on <URL> , you can see that the actual border is pretty much exactly in the middle between the checkpoints . So , even if you travel from Hungary to Serbia on this road , have passed the Hungarian checkpoint and for immigration purposes technically left Hungary , you are still in Hungary until you cross the border .
There 's no way you can get to the capital and back and make your flight . 1 hour 30 should be plenty of time to get to your departure gate . Keflavik is a well laid out airport which has all the gates within about 15 minutes walk . If I remember there are less than 40 gates in the entire place . My suggestion would be to explore the shops in the departure lounge .
I was thinking a long time on how to best answer this question . Despite the tininess of Liechtenstein I think it is nevertheless necessary to concentrate on one specific part . So I wrote three answers in one . The first for persons who are interested in cultural life , the second for people how focus on some sports and the last one for people who want to party ! ( Yes that 's possible in Liechtenstein ;) ) Cultural Activities If you 're interested in cultural activities I would start the time with an aperitif at the prince 's winery . This winery is called <URL> . Since the prince has bought the country in 1712 he owns some vineyards . The result you can try and buy at the Hofkellerei . The wines are widely known in the region and you can particularly get Pinot Noir and Chardonnay there . After testing some wines I would stroll around the old town of Vaduz . It is n't really big but you can see there some old houses . In the afternoon you can visit a famous art gallery called <URL> . There you can see modern and contemporary art and also some of the prince 's private collection . In the evening you can go to one of the best restaurants in Liechtenstein . The <URL> is n't really a budget solution , but it really offers good food . It is located just above the prince 's vineyard and it is his majesty restaurant . The Lonely Planet writes : " The garden terrace enjoys a wonderful perspective of the castle above , while the ancient , wood-lined interior is cosy in winter " . Party time If you 're looking for some partying I would make sure to visit on August , 15th , the national holiday of Liechtenstein . We 're celebrating then the birthday of the former prince that is not living anymore . In the morning you can go to visit the prince in the garden of his castle . This is n't as boring as it sounds since you get there free beer and wine . There will be enough , since the prince is n't poor . It is assumed that he owns more than 5 billions swiss francs . From lunch on there is a big public party in whole Vaduz . You can drink , eat , dance , talk , etc there and it lasts until early morning . As soon as it gets dark , there is another gift from the prince ;) A firework is started at the castle that can be seen from the whole valley and lasts for approximately 40 minutes . ( This pictures says more or less : Hail to God , the prince and the fatherland ! ) Sports If you 're a sportive guy I would recommend to do a daylong hike in the mountains and then go watch a soccer game in Vaduz . Start early in the morning in <URL> . There a really famous hike route starts that will you guide through sheer mountains along the border between Liechtenstein and Austria . Almost the whole path is built out of rock and a lot of steel ropes are necessary to make it save for hikers . You will also have to climb some ladders . At the end of the route you have the possibility to mount three sisters . No joke , the mountain is called three sisters ( Drei Schwestern in German ) and it is one of the most famous mountains in this region . Judging from the picture above it is not sure that you can easily access it , but if you 're free from giddiness it is n't a real problem . I added another picture to show you the situation on the path : If you 're interested in this tour , I can recommend a <URL> that describes a lot of mountain tours in the Alps . It is not only useful for Liechtenstein , but also for Switzerland , Germany and Austria . In the evening when you 're back in Vaduz , I would recommend to go to a soccer game . I would choose a game against a very famous opponent . <URL> , but from time to time there are some attractive opponents , e.g. Germany , Spain , Portugal or England . All past games can be found <URL> . The actual events will be posted on the <URL> of the Liechtenstein soccer association .
Not that phone . Virgin , in the USA , uses Sprint 's network . Sprint uses the CDMA standard . Europe uses a different standard , GSM . The only US phones which can work in Europe are : GSM phones from AT&amp;T and/or T-Mobile , the two GSM providers in the US , as long as the phone supports the same bands as the country you 're going to ( most phones in the last couple of years are multi-band and will ) . The newer " world phones " from Verizon , Sprint , and other CDMA carriers , ( including the iPhones 4S and 5 ) which support both CDMA and GSM . The phone should also be carrier-unlocked . Then you can buy foreign carrier SIM cards and pop them in your phone . It 's cheap to use . However , unlocked phones are generally a few hundred dollars more than locked ones . If you buy a phone without a contract , it 's probably unlocked . A locked phone would still use the American phone plan . It 's expensive to use abroad . But locked phones are cheaper to buy . If you buy a phone with a contract ( i.e. for two years ) , it 's probably locked .
Well , I got an answer back from Singapore Airlines . They responded from twitter : Hi Jason , it is advised that you use the ones on board due to safety concerns , thank you very much .
Tipping in Israel First things first : <URL> . You have no obligation to tip anyone , although showing appreciation for good service is often a good idea . <URL> , which seems to summarise the general consensus found on the internet . In general , cash tips are preferred . I paraphrase below the main tipping tips I found while scouring the web . Restaurans / Bars / Cafes / Food Delivery The tip usually oscillates between 10 % and 15 % . The latter being a generous tip . The average seems to be 12 % . Leave cash tips , since <URL> . Leaving 5-10 % tip to your food delivery man is common practice . Hotels Give 5 NIS per bag to your bellman , 5-10 NIS per day to the maids . Check if tip is included in room service , if not 5-10 % is a good amount . Tour Guides Give 15 % to your tour guide , if they work for a private company . Self-employed guides will include the tip in the total cost of the tour . Do n't forget to tip the driver some 120-150 NIS . Taxi Drivers Tipping taxi drivers is n't required . You can always round up the fare to the nearest integer value , if you feel like it . Spas Tipping attendants is n't required . Tipping therapists is n't mandatory but some people do it . <URL> : Hairdressing and spa tips Hairdresser / Stylist -- 20 NIS Shampooer -- 10 NIS Nails -- 10 NIS Masseuse -- 20 NIS Spa Attendant -- no need to tip
This is what the compartment should more or less look like ( <URL> ) : <URL> As you guessed , there is no changing room or something similar . A pillow and sheet like you see in the picture are provided . There is some variation , but most people will sleep in comfortable street clothes or close to that . Usually at the end of the coach there are toilets and a washstand . The washstand is probably the closest you will get to a changing room . You can use it to clean your face , to shave , brush your teeth and eventually do a quick cat wash . No full shower . That you should get somewhere else . If you decide on the cat wash try to leave the washstand as you found it instead of flooded . There might be shower facilities in major stations ( Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris has some for instance , I 'm not sure about German stations ) . If you expect smelly shoes/feet the best option is probably to air your feet and footwear before boarding the train . If you can carry some light sandals to replace your heavy hiking boots , that would be an option . Putting your smelly shoes in plastic bag and knotting it well closed will also make a huge difference . Another thing to be aware of if you want to be considerate towards the other passengers ( and it sounds you are , thank you ) is to avoid noise for people that are already sleeping when you board the train or are still sleeping when you leave the train . If you leave very early make sure that all your luggage is easily retrievable with at minimum on noise . Postpone putting on your shoes until you are outside the compartment , in the corridor . Places to store luggage are under the lower beds ( rather narrow space ) , above the door ( surprisingly large , perfect for bulky items ) and behind that little stair . Avoid putting anything behind the stair when boarding in the middle of the night because putting something there is always noisy . I often put a small bag simply next to me in the bed , but this depends largely on the size of the bag and your own size .
If you 're looking for warm weather , crystalline water and amazing scenery I would suggest either Corsica or Sardinia . Corsica has wonderful beaches in the north western and southern part of the island . In the north Ficajola comes to mind although the island is amazing all around . In Sardinia the Costa Smeralda in the north is famous for it 's stunning emerald green waters : take <URL> as an example . Prices there will be on the high end though . If you 're looking for something that does n't involve a ferry , the south western part of Puglia , namely Salento , has some pretty nice beaches too . Setting aside the natural parc of Porto Selvaggio , there 's also a place called <URL> which kinda lives up to its name water and sand wise . Finally there 's a similar place in Liguria , namely <URL> where the water is crystal clear reminding you of the tropics .
end question
start question
90/180 rule day count after a long-term visa expires ?
I think it 's impossible to give a definitive answer to that question . The controlling norm is the Schengen Borders Code , specifically article 5 : For the purposes of implementing paragraph 1 , the date of entry shall be considered as the first day of stay on the territory of the Member States and the date of exit shall be considered as the last day of stay on the territory of the Member States . Periods of stay authorised under a residence permit or a long-stay visa shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the duration of stay on the territory of the Member States . I do n't think it unambiguously answers your question one way or the other . As all languages have equal weight , I also checked the German and French versions of the regulation and they are similarly ambiguous . The strongest evidence that this sentence should be interpreted in a specific way would be a ruling of the EUCJ but as far as I know it never had to decide on this particular issue . And of course , with no entry or exit stamps at internal borders , enforcement would be nearly impossible , but that 's obviously a distinct question .
The big question mark is how well your dog travels . We 've got a dog that will just curl up and sleep for as long as we choose to travel - she 's done 14 hour non-stop trips with no issues - but I also know dogs that whine incessantly without regular ( three hourly or so ) stops to relieve themselves and/or have a walk around . This will significantly affect travel time and hence where you 'll be able to reach within a given time period . Other than that , you 'll need to confirm that anywhere you 're looking to stay is pet-friendly . This may not be as big an issue in the US , but in Australia options are more limited and require researching and booking ahead . If you 're going to go sightseeing the same applies - is the attraction dog friendly ? What will you do with your dog while you 're visiting the attraction ? Leaving your dog in the car can be ok , but it really depends on the dog and also the parking situation ( under cover is a minimum ) and the weather ( never do it on a hot day ) . The minimum of travel equipment that we 've found is : Water bowl and water . You can get a water bottle with a combined drinking tray that is useful for travelling . Food bowl and food . Something for your dog to sleep on/in , whether it 's a blanket or a bed . Ideally it 's something familiar to the dog and that they 're accustomed to sleeping in . Travel harness . This depends on the dog but our 's is known to try to hop into the driver 's lap - very bad . It also reduces the chance of the dog getting injured if an accident happens . The usual leash and poo bags for bathroom stops .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
Yes , it 's only relevant in the US , although in the EU the equivalent ( more or less ) rule is EU Regulation 261/2004 . Technically it no longer exists . From the <URL> : The term " Rule 240 " refers to a rule that existed before airline deregulation . There is no longer an actual Rule 240 . The term , as it is now used , refers to each airline ´ s " conditions of carriage " policy . You would need to contact the airlines to obtain this . And then there 's also a relevant <URL> : Federal Aviation Administration Rule 240 mandated that an airline with a delayed or canceled flight had to transfer passengers to another carrier if the second carrier could get passengers to the destination more quickly than the original airline . The original rule , referring to a federal requirement before airline deregulation in 1978 , is long-obsolete ; however , the major US airlines have filed " conditions of carriage " with the U.S. Department of Transportation guaranteeing their similar provisions . These provisions vary from airline to airline , and generally apply only to delays that are absolutely the airline 's fault , such as mechanical delays , and not to " force majeure " events such as weather , strikes , or " acts of God " .
1 to 3 months is not too long term to get travel insurance . Many insurance companies offer travel insurance and there are many options depending on what you want covered , how much you want to cover it for , and the duration of the coverage . Your travel agent might only suggest one company though which may not be the cheapest or best . They seem to have some kind of exclusive arrangements in my experience . One factor is the cost of healthcare in the destination countries . For travel to the United States the general recommendation is to get " unlimited " health coverage , which is of course the most expensive . For property theft and damage , Visa Card provides a kind of automatic travel insurance on items purchased with it . I do not know if Mastercard has the same policy . I did n't want to do too much searching so I stopped at the first one that seemed to answer your question . I have never used them so do not take this as a reccommendation . <URL> advertises " long term travel insurance " and says " Indefinitely extend your policy while you are away " . There are some restrictions which should n't affect you such as being younger than 66 years and being from one of the countries in their list ( I noticed Yemen was n't included ) . Also the price depends on whether or not you will enter these three countries : USA , Canda , and Japan
Short answer - you 're good ! Longer answer ... Germany normally requires a visa for Indian nationals , even if only in transit - however there are a number of exceptions that allow air-side transit without visa ( TWOV ) . One of those exceptions is if you have a Canadian visa , and you are in transit either on the way to Canada , or on the way to your home country ( regardless of where you are traveling from ) . Clearly your concern here is that your Canadian visa will be expired by the time you arrive in Frankfurt , however this is NOT a problem ! As long as your visa was valid when you commenced your return trip , then you will be allowed transit . So your expired Canadian visa IS sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Another of the exceptions is the same as above , but for a US visa . As you have a valid US visa , you are also covered there . So your unexpired US visa IS also sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Note that in both cases you will need to remain airside , and will need to be scheduled to depart FRA within 24 hours of arrival .
As far as I can tell , there are no practical solution that would be much cheaper than USD 200 . The two fully legal possibilities to stay longer than I know of are : Applying for a Swedish long-stay visa . You could qualify for a <URL> or <URL> ( WHV ) . It 's unlikely to be practical for 10 days because of visa fees and delays but the WHV could allow you to stay for an entire year relatively easily . Getting an extension of the Schengen visa-free stay or " limited territorial validity " visa . Those do exist but most likely wo n't be available to you as they are restricted to force majeure or humanitarian reasons . Other ways to plan this trip without paying for the more expensive flight could be : Traveling out of the Schengen area . Going for a week to Croatia , the UK , Turkey or any other destination outside the area at some point during your stay in Sweden ( not necessarily at the end of the trip ) would reduce the day count and make sure <URL> . With low cost airlines and cheap accommodation it could come close to USD 200 . You would not actually extend your stay in Sweden but it could fit in your trip , with a nice holiday somewhere else to boot . Flying from somewhere else like Copenhagen ( connecting by train ) or even further afield like Frankfurt or Amsterdam ( perhaps going there by bus ) to find a cheap flight earlier . See also <URL> ( about the Netherlands , not Sweden ) and <URL> ( US citizen in Germany ) .
You are legally in the UK up to midnight of the expiry date of your visa . If the date is 15 Feb 2014 , for example , you have until midnight local time to leave . Just adding ... If something happens and you ca n't depart , you can soften the effect by reporting to the Border Force ( or in their absence , the police ) . An Immigration Officer is empowered under Paragraph 31 and 31/A to extend , but he does n't have to if he does n't want to . The police will slag you off , but at least you tried . So it 's midnight of the expiry date . Adding : For those interested in the ' grace period ' , the formal penalties start to kick in at 28 days . Those are absolute and enforceable bans against entry . But even for a time shorter than that , a subsequent application to renew or get a new work permit will be invariably refused on credibility grounds .
The research you described falls under a type " D " ( national ) visa , but given that your stay is 4 months they have the OPTION of issuing a Schengen . In either case you can travel around the zone unless the visa itself shows a restriction ( which is rare ) . There 's no way of telling what the consulate will do , and you will know when you inspect the visa .
The formal name for this program is International Experience Canada . There is essentially nothing about it on the <URL> , other than explanations of how you can bring your possessions with you when you arrive . The <URL> was n't much better but it turned out that was because the program has <URL> . Unfortunately , <URL> does n't cover your answer . My guess would be that when it ends , it ends . If you want a month of not-working to do tourist things , you should do that during the term of the visa . The website does n't seem too worried about whether you 're working or exploring , since " The goal of International Experience Canada is to discover Canada " and they let you work so that you can afford to do that . The contact page is useless , basically just says to talk to your embassy .
Airbnb 's " Long Term Cancellation Policy " is that for stays of one month or more , if you cancel , you have to pay the first month 's rent . This makes a lot of sense if you 've booked a place for 6 months ... but as you 've discovered , it 's pretty harsh for a stay of exactly 1 month . Official version : <URL>
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
Consider one of the nearby hotels . Parking is available at all 3 terminals at Charles de Gaulle . Long term rates are 22 $ per day up to eight days and more expensive with a longer stay . This is presumably what you 've seen , and certainly for two weeks , that 'll hurt . If you are planning a longer stay it may be advisable to park at one of the nearby hotels who offer great deals on park and stay : these include the Hilton , Novotel , Ibis , Prestige , and Sofitel .
You 're probably looking for something like <URL> . They will drive a large ( 8m3 ) storage box to your home , you load your things into it , and then <URL> and then they will bring the box to your destination and you unload it again . For an additional fee they will also <URL> .
I think it 's impossible to give a definitive answer to that question . The controlling norm is the Schengen Borders Code , specifically article 5 : For the purposes of implementing paragraph 1 , the date of entry shall be considered as the first day of stay on the territory of the Member States and the date of exit shall be considered as the last day of stay on the territory of the Member States . Periods of stay authorised under a residence permit or a long-stay visa shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the duration of stay on the territory of the Member States . I do n't think it unambiguously answers your question one way or the other . As all languages have equal weight , I also checked the German and French versions of the regulation and they are similarly ambiguous . The strongest evidence that this sentence should be interpreted in a specific way would be a ruling of the EUCJ but as far as I know it never had to decide on this particular issue . And of course , with no entry or exit stamps at internal borders , enforcement would be nearly impossible , but that 's obviously a distinct question .
No , the logic is quite clear , the rule applies to a person . Having several short-stay visas from the same or from different countries in the area would not help either , the visa conditions ( including whether you need one or not ) and the duration of stay are two separate things . Formally , it would however seem possible to alternate between three months in the UK and three months in Schengen area indefinitely , even with only one citizenship and multiple entry visas for each country . But border guards in either the Schengen area or the UK could still become suspicious about the real purpose of your stays .
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
The question often arises after a refusal , and the standard response to your question when it comes from ' official ' sources is ' ... no , each application is considered independently and decided solely upon its merit ... ' . In more practical terms , it will inevitably be taken into account and thus may affect the outcome of future applications OF THE SAME TYPE . For applications of a different type , a visitor visa or spouse visa for example , their grounds may be irrelevant . Those types of visas do not require serious intent to pursue a course of study and hence your credibility can not be assailed . Based upon what you wrote , the German official , however captious it may seem , identified a serious weakness in your application and refused you on credibility . It means that you did not see this opportunity for them to refuse and fortify your application with an explanation along the lines of ' ... I will not complete the MBA program in Bangladesh because ... ' possibly including a recommendation from your faculty adviser that you pursue a degree in Germany . You can also increase the chances of success by a history of performance . That sort of thing is obtained by travelling to lots of countries that require visas . You can also point to significant changes in circumstances in the intervening time since your refusal . These two things work wonderfully in overcoming the stigma of a visa refusal . So the answer to your question : ' will it haunt me ? ' is yes , for applications as a student the refusal is relevant . And the corollary , ' will I be automatically refused ? ' is no . And the related question , ' does a refusal spill over to other types of applications ? ' , generally no . Another related question is ' ... can I get a new passport without a stamp in it and then not declare a prior refusal ? ... ' No , it 's a naive tactic that will blossom into a major credibility hit . The greatest chance for future success is to have your application managed by a licensed practitioner in Germany or in the country where you are applying . Avoid practitioners in Bangladesh generally unless they have documented correspondence status with a regulated EU law firm .
In case you are flying out of Singapore before the term of a long term visa expires , you can surrender your card when going through the immigration checkpoint . Request a surrender of card form from the immigration officer and fill in cancellation request detail as ' leaving Singapore via flight/bus/boat X on Y ' . There are friends of mine who do n't plan to come back to Singapore who were told by nice immigration officials that they may keep the LTP visa card as a souvenir . Technically , this is illegal although it does n't affect you if you do n't plan to come back to Singapore . If you do , then not surrendering your card the previously counts as an overstaying offence . If your long term visa expires , then you have seven days to cancel the card . The exception is that if you are being issued another long term visa card within a fortnight of the previous one expiring , then you can surrender your existing card when the new one is issued . I did this , and thankfully I had retained my previous card as I was told by the officer that if I had n't handed in my old card when I got the new one , that would 've counted as an offence too . EDIT : Just to clarify , I 'm not talking about a Long Term Visit Pass , which is different . I was referring to the other passes mentioned in the question which also count as ' long term passes ' when passing through automated clearance gates at Singaporean borders . EDIT 2 : I 've heard from students who did n't surrender their student pass and did n't have a problem when visiting Singapore again . If you really want to be sure , you can also send your Student Pass via postal mail back to ICA .
In principle , you are indeed allowed to spend another 90 days in the Schengen area , because the time spent under a long-stay visa or residence permit does not count towards the maximum duration of a visa-free short-stay , see <URL> One issue will however be how those 90 days are counted . When crossing the border , the guards might ask about missing stamps ( also on the way out ! ) . You can then show your expired residence permit to prove that you were legally present in Finland even though your last entry stamp is older than 90 days . But if you do n't have any document to account for the time between the expiration of the permit and the moment you cross the border , then that time will probably count towards the 90 days . And if the permit 's expiration date lies more than 90 days in the past and you spent the whole time in the Schengen area , then you have a problem . If at all possible , it could be easier to leave and enter the Schengen area through Finland , as the Finnish border guards might be more familiar with your situation or perhaps even be able to verify that you have an application pending . Traveling to France or Germany from there should n't be a problem after that .
end question
start question
Which parts of the Reichstag building are open for tourists ?
This is the official website where you can get all the informations you asked for ( in english as well ) : <URL> Short summary : There are no restrictions for non-german citizens . You can participate in a guided tour and you can even watch a debate from the tribune of the reichstag for ~ 1 hour . You need a reservation for that , but you can do this online ( see the link above ) . You need a reservation too , if you want to go to the dome ( " kuppel " ) and the roofgarden ( " dachterrasse " ) , but this is included in some of the offers available I believe . You may also visit a congressman with a group of > 10 visitors , but you will need an early reservation for this .
There will be plenty of buses each day to Bodrum . You will find one , so long as they are n't sold out , although Sunday night is unlikely to be the busiest of travel times to Bodrum . Most will be direct , but there will be some which have another final destination . When you arrive in Istanbul , look around for bus company offices in the district you are staying in . * They are fairly ubiquitous so you are unlikely to have to travel far to find one . Moreover , they are usually clustered around one another , which makes time and price shopping easy . That being said , they usually all leave around the same times and charge similar prices , so it wo n't matter much which company you take , although some are better than others . When you buy your ticket , make sure you find out what time the service bus ( in Turkish , servis ) leaves from the office ( usually an hour or so before the scheduled departure time ) . The service buses will take you to the bus station or another staging point , where you will get on the actual bus . Do n't buy a ticket in Istanbul from a company without a service bus . Depending on the destination , there will be service buses to take you from the bus station to somewhere central once you arrive ( in some Turkish cities , there are no service buses , but this is an exception ) . Turkish buses are comfortable but they do stop every three hours or so , even in the middle of the night , so factor that into your sleep expectations . * If you stay in Taksim , walk down to Gümüşsuyu from Taksim Square to find the offices . If you stay in Sultanahmet , walk west towards Lâleli along Divanyolu . There are offices in Sultanahmet itself , but expect higher prices there .
Apparently there are images of these beaches being polluted with the oil but reports say so far no official closing of the beaches as stated in the other answer of @pnuts <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and finally there is a video of frustrated citizens trying to clean the beach : <URL> <URL> <URL>
As far as I can establish from Wiki , there are seven famous stepwells in India : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They look fantastic , I 'll have to get myself to India sometime soon !
When it 's open , you 're allowed to cross the line . <URL> . I had never actually heard that before , so I assume everybody else reasons the same way I did : it 's an open lane , you 're obviously supposed to use it as a perfectly normal lane , so the fact that it can only be reached by crossing an uncrossable line must be a visual illusion that can be safely ignored :-) It 's a normal lane in every respect , so you have to move there if there is no reason not to , and when in one , you ca n't overtake cars that drive in lanes further to the left . An important detail is that you should only look at the digital signs above the lane to decide whether the lane is open ( as you mentioned correctly ) , not at other signage to the side of the road . When the lane is open there is no emergency lane anymore , so when someone has to make an emergency stop , dangerous situations can arise . It will be immediately closed by means of the digital signs above the lane in that case ( turn into a red cross ) , but the signs at the side probably wo n't change .
It would appear not , but there 's nothing stopping us from creating one . People can edit the answer as we find more . Airlines that ban the Knee Defender Air Canada <URL> American Airlines <URL> Continental Airlines <URL> Delta Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Qantas <URL> Southwest Airlines <URL> United Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Virgin Australia <URL> ; <URL> WestJet <URL> Airlines that discourage but do n't ban the Knee Defender British Airways <URL> JetBlue Airways <URL> Airlines that allow the Knee Defender EasyJet <URL> Virgin Atlantic <URL> Airlines with seats that do not recline Allegiant Air <URL> Spirit <URL> Ryanair <URL>
I am not sure where you have found the types of tickets you have listed but the <URL> lists 4 different ones . Main Deck - 86th Floor general admission ( lines and all ) Main Deck Express - 86th Floor and you bypass the general admission line . Main Deck + Top Deck - 86th Floor + 102nd Floor observation decks in general admission line Main Deck + Top Deck Express - same as above with preferential treatment for the elevators . You can also get NY City Pass which will get you Main Deck Ticket included in it . But as @Flimzy pointed in the comment the <URL> is a better observation deck to visit because it does n't have <URL> around the deck like the Empire State building .
You 'll find no shortage of Breakfast locations along Venice beach , all open from at least 8am , many 7am or earlier . Although I 've never been there for breakfast , it 's hard to go past Figtree 's Cafe , if only for the view and because they do a half-price happy-hour from 8am to 9am . Other than food venues you wo n't find much else open until around 10am .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
Oh now this is my question :) If you like parks , there are the ' tourist ' ones in town - Hyde , Regents , St James and so on . But take the tube down to Richmond and walk up the hill to Richmond Park . Firstly you 'll get a great walk along the Thames on the way up , and then you 're in the biggest open air space in London . Originally a hunting ground for King Henry the 8th , I believe , he built a wall and kicked the peasants out . Fortunately today anyone can go in , and there are still 2 herds of deer - 300ish fallow and 300ish red , plus squirrels , foxes and more . It 's beautiful , and the view from Richmond Park to St Paul 's is so special that it 's protected by law ! For clubs , um ... Clapham Common has a great number of bars and so on around it which wo n't get the tourist crowd , but you may get a lot of Kiwis and Aussies who live in the area . For a market , try Borough Market - it 's near the London Bridge tube station , Borough High Street exit , open from Thursday to Saturdays in the mornings . Lots of great food , a little expensive perhaps , but you can actually do well by eating the free samples ;) One way we found to really get ' local ' Londoners was to catch the long tubes to the end of the line - Cockfosters , for example , has a fantastic pub called the Cock and Dragon , and you 're practically guaranteed not to find tourists there ! Epping is similar , but you may experience the music-stopping-and-locals-staring feeling as you walk through the door of the pub . London is huge , and so cosmopolitan that it 's hard to even define what is a Londoner these days ! But it 's a great city and there 's lots to find and explore .
I could not find any reference that confirms these claims . Anyway I found out this <URL> : Cruise ships carrying more than 500 passengers will be prohibited from landing anyone . Only 100 visitors are to be allowed on shore at any given time , in an attempt to prevent damage to the region 's unique ecosystem . So it seems that the limits are for the ships to not allow more than 100 passengers on land in Antarctica . According to the same article the visitors to Antarctica are around 45,000 annually . With simple calculations you will find out that if these visitors stayed one day only there could be more than 100 people at the same time .
<URL> . Or for a picture version ( albeit comparing them to Australian plugs , but at least it shows you ) - <URL> . Basically , international outlet/plug types A and C , and they run at 220V/50Hz . Coming from the Netherlands , you will need an adaptor .
It 's possible , although I would not necessary recommend it in the current climate . First , a map courtesy of the CIA : Start from <URL> , in the Turkish area of Kurdistan . Cross into Iraqi Kurdistan via the <URL> checkpoint , firmly in Kurdish hands , and the town of Zakho . Detour to <URL> at Syria 's northeastern tippy-top if you absolutely must plant your flag in Syrian Kurdistan , then continue to Iran via Erbil ( Irbil ) , which has direct buses to Urmia ( " Orumiyeh " on the CIA map ) via the <URL> checkpoint . Ta-dah , you 've now covered all three ( or four ) countries .
I just met a friend yesterday who came back from a journey to Georgia . He wanted also to cross the border to Russia but it was n't possible . They told him it is only allowed for Russian and Georgian citizens . Do n't know if they told him wrong facts , but afaik the border is closed .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
The region has a very long tradition of international trade , and it 's a cornerstone of the economy . Taxes and tariffs are low , so many things are indeed cheaper . Additionally , the sheer number of shopping opportunities is an attraction in itself . Dubai has one of the world 's <URL> ( among 50 others ) , one of the <URL> , and even a special <URL> .
As a matter of fact , they just have been reopened . The Musée Carnavalet , the museum in charge of the catacombs , announced on their <URL> one hour ago : Bonne nouvelle ! Les Catacombes sont de nouveau ouvertes au public . Nous vous souhaitons un agréable après-midi Which translates to : " Good news ! The catacombs are now again open to the public . We wish you a good afternoon . "
Having some passport not recognized by some country is not that unusual . It 's pretty much certain to happen somewhere for passports of countries with partial recognition . Someone else mentioned passports of Northern Cyprus ( which is only recognized by Turkey ) , which <URL> , is only accepted in 6 countries . But there are many other countries in the same boat . The Republic of China passport : The Republic of China is recognized by 21 UN members plus the Holy See . But its passport is accepted in almost all countries . However , there are some peculiarities . <URL> , a few countries ( Argentina , Kenya , Laos , Nepal , Serbia ) will issue the visa on a separate sheet , not on the passport itself , presumably due to not recognizing the passport . Brazil apparently will require the person apply for a Brazilian laissez-passer as the document to put the visa on . China ( People 's Republic of ) will issue some kind of permit instead . The page for <URL> does not explicitly mention any country where it is not accepted . But common sense would dictate that it is not recognized by Serbia . The Nagorno-Karabakh passport is not recognized anywhere , <URL> ( though it 's unclear if that means it can not be used anywhere ) . For <URL> it says " not valid for travel to most countries " ( not really sure what that means ) . The pages for <URL> and <URL> do not explicitly mention any country where they are not accepted . But again , they would be at least not recognized by the countries that their territory is claimed by ( Azerbaijan for Nagorno-Karabakh , Moldova for Transnistria , Georgia for Abkhazia and South Ossetia ) . The page for <URL> also does not mention where it is not recognized ; but for that case it is conceivable that it could be recognized everywhere . For <URL> , it says it is accepted in 8 countries as unofficial travel documents , which probably means it is not accepted mostly everywhere else . South Koreans visiting North Korea will be issued a visa <URL> .
There is further information ( in Japanese ) about the different levels on <URL> . The first image ( with the concentric circles showing different distances ) also has a bit more information about what facilities you do n't have access to . Level 2 : 1km exclusion zone around crater . No access to Mt. Aso Park Road ( 阿蘇山公園道路 ) , Mt Aso Ropeway ( 阿蘇山ロープウェイ ） , Sensuikyo Ropeway ( 仙酔峡ロープウェイ ) . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the closure of Mt. Aso Park Road basically removes access to all the near-crater facilities . I think the orange line on that map marks the current restriction . There is more information about the closure of Mt. Aso ropeway on <URL> ( English ) , and this would probably be the best source for seeing if things are open again as they seem to update regularly to let people know if they will be running . It appears that there has been damage on some of the roads/pathways in the area from earthquakes , including ones linked to Mt. Aso ropeway , so even if the volcanic alert level drops , you should double-check whether the areas you 're interested in are both open and accessible - this is especially true if you 're thinking of hiking in the area .
Yes , there is a comprehensive list of what vaccinations are provided by the NHS . <URL> , which says : Free travel vaccinations The following travel vaccinations are usually available free on the NHS diphtheria , polio and tetanus ( combined booster ) typhoid hepatitis A -- including when combined with typhoid or hepatitis B cholera These vaccines are usually free because they protect against diseases thought to represent the greatest risk to public health if they were brought into the country . Interestingly it says " usually " rather than making a blanket statement . I 'm not sure if this is because the decision is made at an individual trust/surgery level , or if they are just covering themselves . Further down the page it also notes that : People in certain risk groups may be offered extra vaccines I personally found that when I attempted to get Typhoid/hep A from the NHS , my GP had a temporary staffing issue with regards to nurses , and as a result simply said " we 're not doing travel appointments " . Which was somewhat frustrating , although they did at least provide a list of private suppliers . At the time this answer was placed , the webpage stated it was last reviewed on 16/11/2015 I have no idea if this applies at all to the Scottish NHS .
end question
start question
How to find an appropriate frequent flyer program ?
There are currently three main <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Wikipedia provides a pretty good <URL> to save you having to check each alliance 's website in turn . Have a look through that and see which one you 've mostly been hitting . Also , be aware that carriers sometimes enter , leave or change alliances . This tends not to happen too often , but it does occur ( just see the former and future members section on the wikipedia page for an idea ) , so you ca n't be certain that an airline ( especially a smaller one ) will always be in the alliance it 's in today . Finally , be aware that you often have a fairly short period of time to register flights with a frequent traveller program after flying , usually a few months . Unless you 've flown very recently , you may find that not all of your flights can be credited when you join a program .
<URL> is your friend . You can use that service from city to city , or - as I did in this case - from country ( Australia ) to city ( Hyderabad ) . If you are fortunate enough to fly with your own plane and want to have the closest airport in terms of distance , check the <URL>
Wikipedia is actually quite useful for that . It has a <URL> . I can easily find flights to some of them on the usual search engines , mostly with TAP through Lisbon . <URL> , the flag carrier , also appears to offer many flights . If you want to do a " broad search " , without specifying an airport , you can also use <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . All three accept a country name as destination and the first one even searches other modes of transportation and some charter/low-cost carriers . If you do n't find what you want through the search engines , you can also check the airport pages on Wikipedia . There is an article about most of them , typically with a mostly up-to-date list of destinations and carriers . Thus , you can for example easily find out that TUIFlyNordic offers flights to <URL> from Arlanda ( apparently sold through <URL> ) .
Air India has bilateral partnerships with at least two programs : <URL> <URL> There may be others ; they have a number of <URL> , for example , and even though Air India is not listed as a partner on either 's website , Austrian and Swiss also participate in Lufthansa 's Miles &amp; More program . Note that for frequent flyer accrual it is quite possible that accrual into Flying Returns on partner flights is permitted whereas accrual into partner programs for Air India flights is not . Air India has <URL> , its entry having been repeatedly delayed while it got its house in order , but will not formally enter the alliance until June 2014 or so at the earliest .
Visa applications for Australia can be done completely online ! ( For Australia ) So firstly , to confirm , yes <URL> . Then , apply for it online . There are <URL> . Travelers are not required to visit the Australian embassy nor send in their passports . Once online visa applications are approved , applicants will receive their visa by email , which is recognized by all airlines traveling inbound to Australia and provided that all your travel documents are in order , you should have no trouble boarding your flight to Australia .
It turned out that Flying Blue is not as restrictive as mentioned on their homepage . Even though they require you to hand in the original boarding pass , it is possible to get the miles with just the e-ticket number and any kind of proof that you paid for the flights . In my case , this was an invoice . So the answer to the question is : Send FlyingBlue an email and tell them your problem .
It 's only larger stores that offer this , but you can always ask . I found a <URL> where someone claimed the Apple stores do offer tax free purchases .
I can not guarantee it will be work in every scenario , but at least in this case , I found an answer . It appears sometime after ticketing , the American Airlines number will work in the BA <URL> page , as suggested by IKeelYou - somewhat . I tried it again this morning and it gave me an error , stating that it could n't find the reservation , but pre-populated the reservation number box on the error page with a different reservation code . I tried this reservation code from the MMB page , and lo and behold - my reservation ! Seems like BA 's website needs some bug-fixing , but I do at least have access now .
The travel desk at my hotel has made some calls so I 'll share the information . Three days left is no problem . It will be ready tomorrow afternoon much faster than my hotel in MCMC ! It will cost USD $ 40 $ 20 cheaper than both my initial visa and the price I was quoted by my hotel in HCMC . Actually there was a misunderstanding about when I should pay so my hotel actually took my passport one day later , when I had only two days left on my visa ! And I did get it back the same afternoon . And it did cost only USD $ 40 . I have n't checked any other hotels or travel agents but my hotel was Hotel Tulip Xanh , which has a travel agent on the ground floor . So if you have trouble finding the same or lower place anywhere , this is a place to come . Their address is : 80 Hải Thượng , tp . Đà Lạt .
If the flight number changes , such as in your example of 9W 119 and 9W 76 , they 're different flights ( in fact , nearly always different planes ) and you 'll have to disembark . Technically this is not a stopover at all , it 's a transfer or " layover " . If the flight number stays the same , you 've got a genuine stopover , and there 's no easy way to know what will happen . If the stop 's an hour or more , usually you will have to disembark while they clean the plane . Being allowed to choose to stay on board in these paranoid days seems to be getting more and more unusual , although it does still happen on some regional hopper routes where stops are short ( under an hour ) and only a few pax may get on or off at any given airport . Not being allowed off the plane at all is even more unusual , and is mostly limited to stopovers at military airports ( eg . Kwajalein on the Continental " Island Hopper " between Guam and Hawaii ) , domestic legs without <URL> rights feeding international flights , or those rare routes where they do a pure refueling ( technical ) stop . The last of these are increasingly rare in scheduled aviation , but do still happen on crappy charters flying ( eg . ) Scandinavia-Thailand on old overloaded planes that ca n't fly the full distance in one hop , or even on scheduled flights if there are last-minute equipment substitutions , really bad head winds etc. .
BCEL has an ATM outside the airport arrivals area . Look for the " LDB Exchange " counter adjacent to the main exit . ( If you stand at the counter and look out the window you 'll see the sign for the ATM . ) Head outside .
Well the main problem is that the host/hostel staff have yet to meet you . They do n't necessarily know you , and they do n't know what emergency it will be for . So the call might go something like : Operator : What 's your Emergency ? Host : Er , I 'm not sure . Someone 's meant to turn up , and they have n't ? Operator : Can you describe them ? Host : No , I 've never met them . And so on . At best , you could get them to report you as a ' missing person ' , but the timeframe for when police consider you to be really missing differs from country to country . In Australia , for example , <URL> , IF you have serious concerns about their safety/wellbeing and their whereabouts are unknown . However , generally it 's for cases where being missing is out of character , which is hard to say if the host does n't know you . In New Zealand , however , if you do a hike you can state when/where you are expected to be/return , and if you do n't show up a rescue party can be sent out to find you . So long story short - it depends . Based on this , the call could go : Operator : What 's your emergency ? Host : Bart Arondson , a guest of mine was meant to arrive today and has n't . He was going to be hiking from Nelson to Pelorus Bay today , and left there this morning but has n't arrived here . At which point the police/search and rescue might make a judgement call about the weather , conditions and the likelihood that you 're in trouble .
With American , you ca n't avoid the fees completely , it says so in their <URL> . AAdvantage flight awards are subject to , and the passenger is responsible for , any applicable departure taxes , security fees , federal inspection fees , passenger facility charges and/or other taxes , fees and surcharges assessed by appropriate authorities or partner carriers . In addition , there may be applicable non-refundable charges under the AAdvantage program , such as AAdvantage award charges or upgrade award co-pays . However , you can reduce those fees in at least two ways . 1 - Book <URL> on American . This avoids fuel surcharge that other partners such as BA do charge you 2 - Avoid <URL> travel . I assume , given your previous posts , you 're flying out of Canada . We have expensive airport fees and this hikes the total American charges you .
Because this does not involve providing a service or product , but something that 's very much open to personal taste , I would think it much harder to actually maintain a successful platform in comparison to , say , couchsurfing . That said , these communities or services do exist , though I have no personal experience with them . Here are a few : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( though this one seems to be more about leveraging your existing network of friends )
In Netherlands there is this <URL> The entire airplane has been converted into a single luxury suite for two guests . This means you have the complete craft at your disposal -- including its top-flight facilities , which include a Jacuzzi , separate shower , infrared sauna , mini bar , 3 flat screen televisions , blu-ray DVD player with a comprehensive collection of DVDs , a pantry with oven/microwave combination , coffee and tea maker , free wireless internet , air conditioning , etc. . PRICE : An overnight stay for 2 persons including a luxury breakfast costs $ 350 . The airplane is available to you from 15:00 on the day of your arrival to 11:00 on the day of your departure . There 's also a <URL>
There are currently three main <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Wikipedia provides a pretty good <URL> to save you having to check each alliance 's website in turn . Have a look through that and see which one you 've mostly been hitting . Also , be aware that carriers sometimes enter , leave or change alliances . This tends not to happen too often , but it does occur ( just see the former and future members section on the wikipedia page for an idea ) , so you ca n't be certain that an airline ( especially a smaller one ) will always be in the alliance it 's in today . Finally , be aware that you often have a fairly short period of time to register flights with a frequent traveller program after flying , usually a few months . Unless you 've flown very recently , you may find that not all of your flights can be credited when you join a program .
When Kosovo grants Turkish citizens visa-free entry for short stays , it is a sign that they do n't plan to subject most entering Turks to greater scrutiny than what can reasonably be done on the fly at the border checkpoint . This has to mean that they do n't routinely demand extensive paperwork such as letters of invitation -- if they did , there would be a visa requirement so they had a chance to get a good look at it in peace and quiet . So unless you arouse more suspicion in the border guard than most other Turks do , what you will need is just your passport , and convincing answers to standard questions : What is the purpose of your trip ? Where will you stay ? When and how will you leave Kosovo again ? Be prepared to document your accommodation bookings , tickets for the journey back home , and that you have enough money for your expenses during the trip . ( if you think you do look suspicious , arm yourself with as much documentation as you can lay your hand on , and hope for the best ) .
It is possible ( for an unusually knowledgeable travel agent ) , but not easy . There are two fields in the PNR for each airline , the FQTV field ( frequent traveller number for mileage earning ) and the FQTS field ( frequent traveller number for status purposes ) . These can be set to different values . But airline IT systems are not always designed to understand that this can happen , so even if you manage to find a travel agent who understands what you are talking about , it is not guaranteed to work . If you use a tool like the free MyFlights tool , it will tell you which numbers you have attached to the booking and whether they are FQTV or FQTS ( or another type of FQT number ) . MyFlights is only available for Amadeus bookings .
Required under certain conditions : Outside populated areas : Italy , Hungary and Romania Indicated roads only : Portugal Motorcycles only : Belgium , France , Spain Recommended : Germany , Spain , France Required at all times : Bulgaria , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , Iceland , Latvia , Lithuania , Macedonia , Montenegro , Norway , Poland , Russia , Serbia , Slovakia , Slovenia , Sweden , Switzerland ( <URL> ) Note that all vehicles sold in EU since 2011 are required to have DRLs installed as per European Union Directive 2008/89/EC . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
You may have heard of talk about <URL> , the " Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015 " ( which may also be referred to as the " Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 " ) , which has not been passed by Congress , but you are really looking at the wrong bill . This bill has not passed because it is no longer being considered . Congress decided to pass the provisions through a different bill because politics is confusing like that . Changes to the Visa Waiver Program have indeed been recently passed , as part of <URL> , the " Consolidated Appropriations Act , 2016 " ( the " Omnibus " bill ) , and was signed into law by the President on December 18 , 2015 . The changes to VWP are in <URL> of the bill . The gist of it is that people who have traveled to Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan since Mar 1 , 2011 , or who have the nationality of Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan ( regardless of whether they have ever been to that country ) , are disqualified from using the Visa Waiver Program . People who do n't use the Visa Waiver Program are not affected by these changes . ( For example , some countries are not part of the VWP but their nationals can visit the US without a visa : e.g. Canada , Federated States of Micronesia , Palau , Marshall Islands , and , obviously , the US . ) Update : The US announced that it will <URL> on January 21 , 2016 . It says that people who currently hold ESTAs who have indicated having one of those 4 nationalities will have their ESTAs revoked . It says that the Secretary can waive the restrictions for certain reasons but it 's not clear where in the ESTA process such a waiver would be applied for .
end question
start question
Is it possible to exchange Australian dollars in New Zealand ?
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
Yes , you can travel between the different terminals in CDG . Apparently , when connecting from terminal 2C to terminal 1 , if both your flights are from/to outside of Schengen , you can usually connect without entering France , with the <URL> . But in your case , you do not want to do that for now . As @phoog commented , the shopping area of terminal 2E is in the international zone . so you should not need to cross the border into France . What you want to do is take the blue shuttle that links terminal 2C and 2E . Once you are done you will have to take the blue shuttle back to terminal 2C , then the green shuttle to go to terminal 1 . If for some other reason ( typically to see your friend , since this friend might not be able to access the international zone ) , you want to cross the border : as an American passport holder , <URL> ( it is still a border , so the border agent may deny you the entry ) . Once you cross the border , you can go to terminal 2E , then to terminal 1 for your connection . To go from terminal 2 to terminal 1 , you have to take the CDGVal , that appears on the <URL> . Keep in mind that crossing the border may take some time . If your two flights are with different airlines , you will probably have to collect your luggage and check it in again , so that will take even more time .
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
This is very much related to your phone and to a certain extent your provider . It is especially important for Verizon customers because their network is different to most of the world ( CDMA vs. GSM ) and hence the phones they sold often only worked on their network , unless they were marketed as ' world phones ' . You should also consider the frequencies supported ( Verizon and T-Mobile use different frequency bands to most of the world ) . In this case though , the iPhone 5s is a ' world phone ' . Looking at the specs ( <URL> ) , Model A1533 ( GSM ) : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 25 ) Model A1533 ( CDMA ) : CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 25 ) Model A1453 : CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 25 , 26 ) Model A1457 : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 20 ) Model A1530 : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; FDD-LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 20 ) ; TD-LTE ( Bands 38 , 39 , 40 ) ... you can see that the CDMA models ( you should be able to confirm this in Settings > General > About > Model ) support UMTS/HSPA + ( the 3G technologies in use in NZ ) and GSM/EDGE ( the 2G technologies in use in NZ ) . The frequencies in use in NZ are - 2 Degrees ( <URL> ) - 3G ( UMTS ) - 2100 Mhz ( urban ) and 900 Mhz ( rural ) 2G ( GSM/EDGE ) - 900 Mhz and 1800 Mhz Vodafone ( <URL> ) - 4G ( LTE ) - 1800 Mhz 3G ( UMTS ) - 2100 Mhz ( urban ) and 900 Mhz ( rural ) 2G ( GSM/EDGE ) - 900 Mhz and 1800 Mhz Telecom NZ ( <URL> ) - 4G ( LTE ) - 1800 Mhz 3G ( UMTS/HSPA + ) 2100 Mhz ( urban ) and 850 Mhz ( rural ) The frequencies match up to the ones supported on your iPhone , so therefore you should be fine on any of the mobile networks and you should get at least 3G data performance in urban areas , if not 4G . You might fall back to 2G on some networks outside urban areas . Verizon has also previously stated that they do not carrier-lock the SIM slot on iPhones , so you should be free to use other SIM cards abroad ( see <URL> , but do check with them first though ) . Finally , do consider the T-Mobile global roaming option , however I believe that only allows you to roam for 3 out of the previous 6 months or something like that , to prevent people from signing up and permanently using it abroad . I do n't have any recommendations as to which network you should sign up for , but note that the 2 degrees network is only available within urban areas ; outside urban areas , it falls back on to the Vodafone network and you may lose data access ( although calling and SMS should be fine ) .
I 'm in the same position as you -- I 've been working in Sweden for the last 5 years , and I can tell you from experience that certain things will be difficult or nigh impossible if you do n't have personnummer . Talking specifically about banking , no , it wo n't be possible at all . Even with personal number you might run into difficulties if you are only a student and are not otherwise working in the country -- you 'll need to convince them that you actually need a Swedish bank account . Obviously , when you are working , you are already required to have a personnummer , and setting up an account would be easy in this case . Other things that might be difficult or impossible without a personal number : Buying a car from a private person Signing an accommodation contract The list goes on . Personally , I do n't see why you are surprised by this -- imagine similar situations in your own country and see how that will work out . Besides , for EU citizens it 's relatively easy and painless to obtain a personal number . But you should already have a temporary personal number which is issued with the cooperation of your education institution -- I had it when I first arrived in Sweden and did n't have to do anything special . These numbers have a letter in them as the fourth-to-last digit to distinguish them from ordinary PNs . At any rate , if you want to obtain a Swedish PN , you need to do only two things : Register with <URL> , the Swedish migration authorities . Even as EU citizen ( which I assume you are ) , you are required to register your temporary residence if you stay in the country for more than three months . Note that there are similar requirement in other EU countries , so this should not surprise you . It 's standard procedure , you should only present your letter of acceptance from the educational institution along with your passport , and it takes a week or two at the most . You should also provide some information about your current accommodation . Apply also for a Swedish personal number from <URL> ( the Swedish Tax agency , which among other things , issues personal numbers ) . This could be tricky if you are in Sweden only for a year or two ( you should have a valid cause to request one ) , but if you are persistent and persuasive , you might be able to get one -- some of the elderly ladies in Skatteverket are charmed easily , especially if you are polite and try to talk to them in Swedish . Consult the Skatteverket website for some more information , or visit their local office .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
No , you can not do this any more . The reason is that the Angkor Wat archaeological park is a protected complex , and drivers need to be registered with the authorities who maintain the park to be allowed into it . My tuk-tuk driver told me they need to be registered too , and of course , any tourists need to buy a valid pass . I am guessing that people who live in the area have some sort of residence permit or pass , but I did not see tourists themselves driving around on motorbikes . The temples themselves are very far apart and it 's a big trek to cover them on foot . I 'd advise keeping the tuk-tuk with you . It does n't cost more than $ 15-20 a day .
There are ways to stay longer than 90 days in New Zealand , even as a visitor . For example : If you are under 30 ( and meet some other conditions ) then you may be eligible for a <URL> visa which lets you stay for a year If you apply for a <URL> you may request a duration of stay longer than 90 days If you intend to work in New Zealand , such as if you have a job offer , you can apply for various temporary work visas . You may even apply for such a visa after you have arrived in the country as a tourist . The <URL> web site is well laid out and presents the various visa options clearly ( see " Find a visa " ) .
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
Both in the Netherlands and Belgium you can buy semi-open tickets at the station for the other country . You can perfectly buy a national ticket for Belgium in the Netherlands and vice versa . The benefit of these tickets is that they have a validity window of 1 or 2 months . This is not the case if you buy train tickets in the respective countries self . So for local trips in Belgium you need to buy your tickets in the Netherlands and for your local tickets in the Netherlands you need to head to Belgium . Caveat : This does NOT work with tickets bought online , only with tickets issued at the train station .
Be careful about trusting the Google Maps walking route , as it wants to send you over Connaught Bridge , which does n't have pedestrian footpaths ! If you use <URL> , you can see the lack of footpaths , but also a handy bridge that Google neglects to show ... Instead I 'd suggest using <URL> to plan the route , which uses <URL> which <URL> . That suggests a sub-2km , 20 minute walk , along the dock side , and over the pedestrian bridge :
I used TomTom Route planner to check this out . And it confirms that <URL> , so I 'd suspect it 's totally fine to travel on .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
Yes , and it can even be done on the <URL> ! You need to search for a ticket from Swindon to Heathrow Bus , and it 'll give you them as shown here : <URL> The ticket will be valid to Heathrow Terminal 5 as well , if that 's where you wanted to go
No . Miles are not a currency that can be moved between programmes . There are some exceptions ( such as Avios , which can be moved between the British Airways Executive Club and the Iberia Plus ) but this is unusual . I am not aware of any SkyTeam programmes that work like this . If it is absolutely essential that you move the miles you might be able to convert via a common hotel partner or through some third party unofficial swap website . But it is likely to be very poor value in the first case and in the second case , a violation of the programme 's terms and conditions . You may buy flights from any SkyTeam airline using any other SkyTeam account . But you can not merge or pool your miles together .
Although the official currency of Peru is , US dollars are widely accepted in many places . I found out three ways to exchange dollars into soles : In banks - the banks have the worst exchange rates and there were always lines . Besides , not all commercial bank exchange money . I do n't recommend this . From street moneychangers - there are people in most cities , they wear blue vests with euro and dollar signs , and they are licensed money changers . They offer better rates than banks and sometimes you can even negotiate the rate ( almost always in Lima , not so often in smaller cities ) . I recommend this In supermarkets - most supermarkets ( like Wong , etc. ) accept payment in USD and give change in PEN . They had the best exchange rates and I frequently paid with large notes to get more money changed . I strongly recommend this . I heard that casinos , which are almost at every corner in Lima , exchange in the same way as supermarkets , and have even better rates .
First of all , here <URL> that lets you search camp sites across Japan . Regarding the two places you mentioned , a quick search resulted in this one : There is a <URL> that lets you stay in a group hut or rent a tent . Here is their <URL> . There seems to be only one camp ground in Yagen Valley , and it does not offer rentals . I also tried to find rental tents ( テントのレンタル ) in Mutsu city but could not find any .
In terms of getting a new passport , <URL> . You can renew or replace your passport at any time . It costs # 72.50 by post or # 81.25 through the Post Office 's Passport Check &amp; Send service . Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one - up to a maximum of 9 months .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
end question
start question
How well are allergies understood in Bhutan ?
The Bhutanese recognize dietary needs very well , as a large portion of the population have specific dietary needs ( vegetarianism is largely observed ) . However I also have oral allergy syndrome and I find that it 's not a largely understood form of allergies . Depending on your severity , but most of their food is quite simple ( limited in ingredients , heavier on spicing ) , so you should be able to pick the foods that you 're in the clear for . Good luck , and hope you like Yak-related products :-)
I went to Seoul in summer 2015 and I could use my Visa everywhere . I can not tell if there are some places which will reject your mastercard , most likely there will be but I 've stayed there for a month and I could pay and withdraw money without any issue . As far as I know , Koreans have plenty of credit cards and they use it on daily basis so you should not have trouble using yours . ;) I did not have my Mastercard so I could not try but most ATM were compatible with it . I did n't check for American Express since I do n't own an AE card . EDIT : see more details <URL> and <URL> EDIT2 : as said in one of the link , do n't forget to notify your bank that you 'll use your card abroad ... For security matter my bank was denying any operation from abroad , I had to tell them where I was and the dates of my travel . NB : I used a Visa credit card issued by French bank .
While there 's always an inherent possible risk with these types of sites ( VBRO , AirBnb , even hostel websites ) - for the most part , they work fine - otherwise they would n't work ! Always look at any reviews on the property/owner - if any , and see if there have been any noted problems in the past . Perhaps Google the address or property as well , just to make sure it is where it says it is . If there 's a phone number , you could call to double check on some aspects - what 's included , and so on . However , if you 're really paranoid , or cautious - say , if you 've just put down $ 1000 on a rental , you could consider their <URL> , where from $ 39 , they 'll cover you for up to $ 10,000 in fraud , misrepresentation or even just a double-booking .
The hotspot you link to is a 3G to wifi device . I 've used a similar device but on AU instead of NTT DoCoMo which the one you linked to uses , but I expect you 'll have a similar experience . ( And AU has a 2 year contract while NTT does n't ) . I found coverage was very good , but that download speeds were not great . I did n't have any trouble using Skype , but did find videos on YouTube , took a while to buffer and were at times choppy . If you need always on Internet this is probably a good choice as WiFi ( esp . free WiFi ) is not common . I 'm personally now using WiMax service which is much faster , but coverage is restricted to large citie . I 'm not aware of any businesses renting WiMax routers in Japan , although it is possible purchase the service monthly without a contract if your device already supports WiMax ( <URL> ) Last note is that Google Voice provides slightly better rates to Japanese phones than Skype ; however it does n't have the ability to have a Japanese number .
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
Yes , there are definitely squat houses in Paris Today , in contemporary paris you can find alternative political and cultural activity in various squats or social centers . These are abandoned buildings ( often government owned ) that have been occupied and re-appropriated by groups of artists , performers , activists , musicians or just people that need a roof over their head . Paris has seen many years of this squatting tradition and though many of them have been closed down , a lot are opening and some have managed to become legitimate and are supported by local municipalities . Some squat houses have been closed due to health and safety but are still available to look at For example the very famous squat " electron libre chez robert " which is situated right in the heart of Paris at 59 rue de Rivoli was once said to be the 4th most visited tourist attraction of Paris and so was closed to the public a couple of years back due to health and safety precautions . However , when walking by rue de Rivoli you can still admire the eccentrically decorated facade of this typical Parisian apartment building . Some Squat Houses can be viewed Les Frigos Many squats are home to the ateliers and workshops of artists , the " Les Frigos " for example is home to about 100 artist ateliers , although nobody lives there . This 80 year old building was once a giant refrigerator producing ice hence its name which means ' the fridges ' . Now it has been re-appropriated by numerous artists and its facade is filled with some impressive graffiti and mural art <URL> an immense building ( about 5000m3 ) with around 15 people living permanently and a collective of about 50 people occupying the ateliers and workshops on the three floors . They have a gallery which is very well known and often shows quite avant-garde work of upcoming or even established artists . As well , they often organize what is called a ' fête du quartier ' ( neighborhood party ) which includes concerts , performances , theatre and an " open scene " where anybody can come up and perform <URL> Not far from " La Générale " , in the 11th is a squat that was opened last year and has been very active in the neighborhood ever since . Installed in an ancient school , " La Petite Rockette " has established a very good name for itself with a variety of open courses ranging from capoiera to IT classes for the elderly . They have a very busy schedule packed with expositions , concerts and theatre . Their impact on the neighborhood is really evident and the fact that everything is run by volunteers makes it all the more impressive . As it is relatively speaking quite a new squat , there is a lot of energy and motivation to keep things active and fresh . Quoted information from <URL> 59 Rivioli is also a well known squat The 59 Rivoli is a building right in the heart of Paris that 's full of nothing but artist 's studios . There 's a gallery on the ground floor that has a new exposition every 2 weeks . In the beginning , it was a squat that was started by artists looking for a place to work , live and show . The artists opened it to the public 6 days a week . It 's now legalized and still open to the public who can come through and visit the artists . Unlike a gallery where you only see a small amount of the artist 's work , at 59 Rivoli , you get to truly enter into an artist 's universe where the work is actually created . Other useful links ; <URL> <URL>
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
Leaving from Paris ( and presumably going through Tours ) is clearly not a good option given your criteria . The area around Paris and the <URL> are generally flat and the route then goes around the Massif Central , without any major mountainous area and generally less dramatic landscape . The <URL> also includes many rather flat areas but at least it does cross the Massif Central . So the <URL> seems the best option for you , with one small caveat : Le Puy is in a relatively mountainous area and some of the steepest climbs ( apart from the crossing of the Pyrenees , which is common to all three ways ) would be at the very beginning ( do n't imagine the Rockies or even the Alps however ) . The rest of this route include some plateau and many hilly areas ( not really mountains but not flat either ) and the infrastructure is great . Because of this , you can basically make the progression as easy as you want by stopping more frequently . Also note that the GR65 is marked all the way to Geneva . You could start somewhere east of Lyon to have a couple of days of relatively flat terrain before approaching Le Puy and the Massif Central ( not sure about the infrastructure on this part of the way but finding support should not be difficult , it 's not a wild area at all ) . I am less familiar with the various routes in Spain but my understanding is that the Camino Frances is the only one starting in Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port so that would be the logical option since you are apparently planning to walk one of the major French ways . It certainly boast varied landscape and great support infrastructure .
Since you mentioned a multi-day hiking trip , my answer will focus on alpine huts . In other locations , most people accept Euros , but the exchange rate is most often quite poor . Also big grocery stores like Migros or Coop take Euros . Most restaurant in the pedestrian area in Vaduz and Schaan also take Euros , but more remotely located restaurant do not always accept Euros . There are three major alpine huts in Liechtenstein : Gafadura , Sücka and Pfälzerhütte . Pfälzerhütte <URL> and calculates the prices in Euro on case to case basis with the latest exchange rate . The Gafadurahütte also <URL> . Considering Sücka , I <URL> , but I recall that I 've seen people paying with Euros there . But I would contact the owners first and ask them . In summary : Euros should be enough , especially if you also have a credit card . If you want to be sure that you wo n't be put on a disadvantage because of the poor exchange rates , I 'll take Swiss francs with me .
I 'm not familiar with regulations and expectations in Clinton Hill , but in general for Brooklyn : Is this legal ? Yes , and it turns out , necessary . Is it safe ? Different neighborhoods have different levels of safety , and I 'm not sure how to compare to where you live in Ecuador , but most people who own a vehicle in a residential neighborhood do it . Is it possible ( or advisable ) to leave your car overnight parked on the street ? There is very little parking in the residential neighborhoods , so almost all of the residents leave their cars parked in the streets over night , as there is no alternative . On thing you should be aware of is alternate side of the street parking rules . These rules are in place to allow for street cleaning and the specifics will be posted on signs in your neighborhood . The general rule is that on a specific day of the week for a specific time window , no parking is allowed on one side of the street . You may not get caught , but if the street sweeper shows up and your car is parked on that side , you will get a ticket and possibly towed . As an example , for your street maybe Tuesdays from 8-12 you can not park on the left side and Wednesday from 12-4 you can not park on the right . This has become a way of life in these neighborhoods and if you are around at the start or end times you will often see people watching for an open spot so the can move as soon as the time changes .
Total duration : 3 to 3.5 hours When : All days of the week , starting at dawn . Start time varies depending on weather , so check with us Start Place : Dasashwamedh Ghat , by the Ganga Seva Nidhi office End Place : Phool Mandi Cost : Rs 2000 per person for 2 persons Rs 1500 per person for 3-4 persons Rs 1000 per person for 5-6 persons Rs 800 per person for 7-8 persons Our maximum group size is usually not more than 6-8 people . Payment is by cash on the day of the tour Includes : Knowledgeable English-speaking guide , boat ride , illustrated handouts , personalised walk , all taxes If you need pickup/drop from your hotel by car , please add Rs 1000 . You could find all aditional information about boating <URL>
All taxes ( federal , state , local ) are already included . Be careful though , it might get more expensive depending on where you go . One year ago , gas was ~ $ 3,5 / gallon around Las Vegas but in Northern California it was more $ 4 . The lowest and highest I 've seen were $ 3,3 and $ 4,2 . So you should still have some margin in your estimate . But like everywhere , simple rules will get you cheaper prices : it will be more expensive near airports , probably near big cities , on busy highways . Famous brands are also more expensive . EDIT : including @LessPop_MoreFizz comment since it is important too . Paying in cash will save you some money ( usually 10c per gallon ) . Pretty often a credit card fee will be charged , sometimes also for debit card payments .
Yes , <URL> , although the US$ 65 " royalty " is actually included in the US$ 200 " daily package fee " . However , that 's the group rate ( 3 or more people ) , you get socked another $ 40/30 per person if you 're traveling solo/duo , and another $ 50/night/person if you 're visiting when it 's neither midwinter nor monsoon ( March-May , Sep-Nov ) . Bhutan explicitly wants cashed-up tourists and not penurious backpackers , so the rates are high . The only <URL> are : Citizens of India , Bangladesh and the Maldives , who do n't need visas Young children : no royalty under 5 , 50 % off under 12 Students : 25 % off The alternative is to wrangle an invitation from a Bhutanese citizen or organization , but obviously this requires actually knowing someone , there 's no Russia-style invitation letter mill . <URL> is one way in , but the competition 's pretty tough .
<URL> . Or for a picture version ( albeit comparing them to Australian plugs , but at least it shows you ) - <URL> . Basically , international outlet/plug types A and C , and they run at 220V/50Hz . Coming from the Netherlands , you will need an adaptor .
I will speak on this topic based on my own experience of having lived here in Japan for 8 years as well as being familiar with the experiences of many other non-Japanese people : One of the most important things to note here is that Japanese society strongly encourages people not to give voice to judgements they have about people who are not in their in-group ( like family , co-workers , etc ) . A very important aspect of the Japanese is that while they can be very judgmental , they maintain an admirably live-and-let-live outward attitude towards people they do not know well . It is rare in public to see people reprimand or criticize someone for anything . So , to use your example of a Muslim in full hijab , I can not imagine a Japanese person going up to and verbally accosting this person under almost any circumstances . What is very likely is that they would stare at this person , take a picture , ask them if they were too warm inside , ask them for their autograph , or other behaviors that would make this Muslim feel rather alienated , but if they were to say anything regarding that person 's clothing choices it would be " wow " , " that 's amazing " , or " look Dad , it 's a strangely-dressed foreigner ! " - but saying something along the lines of " I do n't like Muslims " would be exceedingly rare . That said , people from China and Korea ( particularly North Koreans ) are the most likely to be treated poorly , due to a sort of deep-seated racism that exists between the East Asian societies that has persisted for centuries - and current political tensions in the region are having a further effect here . <URL> . I can not comment on all nationalities , but black people I know have generally had good experiences in Japan because , like white people , they are considered exotic by the locals . Though , they are frequently asked questions that would be inappropriate in the United States , like " Black English is cool ! Can you teach me how to talk like a black person ? " . It is also not uncommon for Japanese people who 've been out in the sun for a long time in the summer and gotten tan to jokingly say " I look like a black person " . In these ways , the Japanese have little comprehension of racial sensitivity and appropriateness that less homogenous societies have developed . One of the biggest percentage of foreigners living in Japan are from South America ( particularly Brazil ) , and they are the descendants of the many Japanese people who emigrated there about 100 years ago . They mostly work in factories ( particularly in the Tokai region of Japan , near Nagoya ) . From my perspective they are not rejected by their local Japanese communities , but not wholly embraced either . They are frequently unfairly blamed by the police for crimes in the areas they live though . On the topic of the police - it is OK in Japan for the police to stop foreigners and ask for their " papers " to see if their visas are valid . From what I understand , this is more likely to happen to other Asians , Hispanics , and Middle Easterners . My wife and I are both from the United States , however she is of Filipino decent and has been stopped on occasion and asked to show her papers . I am pasty white and have never been stopped . A guy from Iran I know has been stopped a total of 8 times in his few years in Japan , often by people from the same Police Box near his apartment . I have never heard anything to indicate that a bald white person would experience more discrimination than a non-bald one . Lots of white lifers in Japan are missing their hair anyway ! A final thing to note is that all foreigners , regardless of ethnicity , will face institutional discrimination for bureaucratic procedures . First and foremost is renting an apartment : landlords are allowed to ask if the potential tenant is a foreigner and if so they will usually reject them -- there is no legal framework to prevent this . Rental and real estate based discrimination is probably the most rampant form in the entire country . However , if you are just traveling this will probably be no problem . Other similar forms are signing any kind of contract , for foreigners they will often ask for a Japanese guarantor because these institutions are of the opinion that anyone from outside Japan is unreliable in making payments . Another form of guaranteed discrimination is foreign kids ( regardless of ethnicity ) attending public schools , however this is not really limited to Japan as kids love making fun of each other for superficial things the world over .
It 's going to come down to culture , and income differential . I 've found that in countries where bartering is more common , then generally touts are more persistent , as they can keep lowering prices and the like . However , in other countries where you 're the ' money on legs ' to the locals , you may find more persistent ' bugging ' or chasing down streets , because the payoff for them is huge . In addition , when tourists are out of their comfort zone , their fears can be used or lack of knowledge taken advantage of , to elicit cash . Overpriced taxi fares , a guide for the ' dangerous streets ' and so on . So in evaluating a country ahead of time , consider if it 's generally a poorer country , a very different culture , and considered ' dangerous ' by outsiders . As a ROUGH ( there are always exceptions and changes !!! ) guide , that 's an idea . You can also search the internet for views of touts in the area , but generally more people post bad experiences than good experiences , so take them with a grain of salt . Disclaimer : Not everyone has the same experience , and reading online will see arguments about how Mexico does or does n't have bad touts , or how Moroccan ones will chase you down the street - but my description above comes from some experience .
The Bhutanese recognize dietary needs very well , as a large portion of the population have specific dietary needs ( vegetarianism is largely observed ) . However I also have oral allergy syndrome and I find that it 's not a largely understood form of allergies . Depending on your severity , but most of their food is quite simple ( limited in ingredients , heavier on spicing ) , so you should be able to pick the foods that you 're in the clear for . Good luck , and hope you like Yak-related products :-)
I could not find any reference that confirms these claims . Anyway I found out this <URL> : Cruise ships carrying more than 500 passengers will be prohibited from landing anyone . Only 100 visitors are to be allowed on shore at any given time , in an attempt to prevent damage to the region 's unique ecosystem . So it seems that the limits are for the ships to not allow more than 100 passengers on land in Antarctica . According to the same article the visitors to Antarctica are around 45,000 annually . With simple calculations you will find out that if these visitors stayed one day only there could be more than 100 people at the same time .
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
I often just look up the Wikipedia article for the airline . So for example , when in the ' stans earlier this year , I was considering airlines like <URL> - which as soon as you start reading the article , you 'll find it 's on the list of airlines banned from flying over the EU ... , which quickly made up my mind about it . Although they were cheap ... <URL> is a rather handy one , as it comes down to banning them due to not being up to scratch safety-wise , or for known poor levels of maintenance .
end question
start question
What makes a backpack a women 's backpack ?
<URL> : " SL " stands for Slim Line . The entire pack , including the carrying system , is designed with a woman 's physique in mind , but can also be used by anyone with a smaller torso and frame . Features of the SL system : A slightly shorter back length ( to accommodate a shorter torso ) . The SL back system with its lower shoulder strap anchor point is a bit shorter than the standard version . A more conical shaped hip belt , which further accommodates a greater arch in the spine . The SL hip belt anchor points are set closer together , and are slightly curved angling diagonally upward . The fins are also pre-shaped so that the fastened hip belt has a conical shape delivering a customized fit . SL shoulder straps are both narrower in width and shorter in length , have narrow tapered ends and smaller buckles . They avoid chafing in the armpits and eliminate pressure points in the chest area . Further , the SL shoulder straps are set closer together . Thus , they stay in place and do not slip off the shoulders . The SL shoulder straps have an S-shape and feature softly lined edges on both sides , allowing them to curve around sensitive areas , and not chafe . Who else can wear SL ? Our SL rucksacks are designed to fit the average athletic female build . However , since not everyone fits the norm it is likely that standard models also fit female users perfectly well and vice versa : SL models fit men with slim builds and younger guys .
What usually happens is that originally , there is a station named X ( which may or may not be named after the city where it is located ) . At some point it is decided that the area needs a new station , and that the new station shall just be named " Shin-X " , which should be understood as meaning " the new X " . Sometimes the reason why a new station is necessary is that a new Shinkansen line to the area is planned and it is determined that the existing station is not suitable to accomodate it . This is what happened in Shin-Osaka for example : the area around Osaka station did not have enough room for the necessary developments . There can be many other reasons why a new station is needed , however . In the case of Shin-Sapporo , it was to serve a new urban development ( which incidentally was also named Shin-Sapporo ) . An interesting one is Shin-Rifu ( in Rifu town , near Sendai ) which was established when the Tohoku Shinkansen started operating , not because the Shinkansen actually goes to this station , but to accomodate employees and visitors of the neighbouring Shinkansen rail yard . The Japanese wikipedia page of a station usually has a " History " section where some background information about its establishment is given . And sometimes Shin is just part of the " actual " name of the station , as with Shintoku station ( in Shintoku city , Hokkaido ) .
45x38x11 cm is above the size that Ryanair say they will definitely allow in the cabin ( 35x20x20 cm ) but below the maximum size of hand luggage ( 55x40x20 cm ) so if it 's your only piece of hand luggage you might be allowed to take it on , and if not it will be carried in the hold for free . In my experience , when they insist that passengers gate check their luggage they are mainly looking for the big wheely suitcases which just fit in the cage at all . The main limitation is on overhead locker space , so if your bag looks like it will fit under the seat in front of you then you 're probably OK .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
Lavatories ( airplane toilets ) can be inoperative for many reasons , they could get blocked by someone vomiting in the sink , or by throwing tissues or other objects in either the sink or the toilet seat . Sometimes , when a waste tank is full , or there 's a problem in the sensor of the tank giving a wrong signal , all flushes connected to that tank will not work , this happens in modern aircrafts . If a sink or a flush are not working , the toilet has to be blocked by the crew/maintenance or stuff would be piling up ! For each aircraft type ( usually depending on the passenger load and toilet locations ) , there is a limit of toilets that can be inoperative while airborne before the flight has to land at the nearest airport . This depends on the model and airline 's policy . But a rule of thumb is : half of the toilets in each zone should be operative . Otherwise the flight has to land if this happened during the flight . If the flight is on ground and for example all toilets in business class are inoperative , the plane can take off but no passengers should be in that class . In some airlines , if all the toilets at the front are inoperative , even if there are no passengers , the plane has to land if it 's flying or will not be able to take off if it 's on ground because pilots are only allowed to use toilets in the front .
The usual Aussie website for comparing flight prices is <URL> , but in my experience they do n't list everything . Also they charge a booking fee so use it to find a flight but you might get a better price on the same flight elsewhere once you have the details .
<URL> : " SL " stands for Slim Line . The entire pack , including the carrying system , is designed with a woman 's physique in mind , but can also be used by anyone with a smaller torso and frame . Features of the SL system : A slightly shorter back length ( to accommodate a shorter torso ) . The SL back system with its lower shoulder strap anchor point is a bit shorter than the standard version . A more conical shaped hip belt , which further accommodates a greater arch in the spine . The SL hip belt anchor points are set closer together , and are slightly curved angling diagonally upward . The fins are also pre-shaped so that the fastened hip belt has a conical shape delivering a customized fit . SL shoulder straps are both narrower in width and shorter in length , have narrow tapered ends and smaller buckles . They avoid chafing in the armpits and eliminate pressure points in the chest area . Further , the SL shoulder straps are set closer together . Thus , they stay in place and do not slip off the shoulders . The SL shoulder straps have an S-shape and feature softly lined edges on both sides , allowing them to curve around sensitive areas , and not chafe . Who else can wear SL ? Our SL rucksacks are designed to fit the average athletic female build . However , since not everyone fits the norm it is likely that standard models also fit female users perfectly well and vice versa : SL models fit men with slim builds and younger guys .
Weather Underground has a nice <URL> feature for exactly this use-case . Tell it where you 're going and when and it will show you the average temperature and range for the last 20 years , how many days it rained , and other such historical weather data . You can play with the dates and see how much the results vary .
If the damage is already present when the car is collected and is logged on the appropriate paperwork , then the damage should have no effect on the renter whatsoever . If there is damage not logged on the appropriate paperwork , then the renter should inform the rental agency of it before leaving the site , to avoid being held liable for the damage . If the car is returned with " new " damage - either because it was n't previously noticed or has now occured , the exact consequences depend on the rental company 's policy and the rental agreement , as well as the insurance held by the renter . In general , the renter can be expect to charged for the damage , at what many would consider a somewhat inflated rate . The requirement of a credit card when renting is normally to make it easy for the rental company to do this . If the renter opted to reduce the damage collision waiver to 0 , then this should cover any non-malicous damage ( you may be questioned about the circumstances ) and there should be no additional charge . Note that many car hire companies exclude certain aspects of the car from their damage insurance/CDW . The most common exclusions are tyres ( sometimes all aspects of the wheel ) and windscreens . Also note that letting a non-named driver drive , or operating in any of the ( often many ) prohibited situations of the rental agreement can also invalidate any cover you may have . With respect to the impact and reaction to the size of the damage , it 's really difficult to generalize . Even among the big chains , rules may differe from country to country , and possibly between chains . Some have a policy on a minimum damage size before charging , others do n't . If the damage was pointed out when renting the car , then that is probably because it is chargeable damage ( those rental agencies I 've used with a minimum damage size do n't bother to point out marks below the minimum ) . Whether damage gets fixed or not is not an indicator of if you will be charged or not . This is for several reasons : The rental company will argue that the damage effects the resale value of the car and hence the value of their asset Cosmetic damage may only be fixed periodically , especially in busy periods when all the fleet is used Car damage and subsequent charges to customers are a profit centre for many car rental companies . This is more common with companies in heavy tourist areas for whom repeat business is a smallr concern than low prices to get new business and maximizing the profit from one-time customers . I 've also seen cars being rented out with quite significant ( ie major dents ) , cosmetic damage before , which it is almost certain was charged for .
Where you 're from is likely irrelevant . Overstaying is overstaying , you 're not going to get treated more harshly or kindly because of who your president/king/prime minister is . There 's a great piece " <URL> " that is relevant to this . Consequences of overstaying This could result in a : no consequence - if you 're lucky , and this will depend greatly on who you deal with and what mood they 're in . fine - the smallest and easiest problem - although it can be expensive , it 's solvable with money . Have heard of 700 Euro fines for being 20 days over . record - they may put something on your personal record for the Schengen countries , making it hard to get a visa in future . ban on entry - you may be banned for 1-3 years ( usual length of time ) . deportation - very bad to have on your record , can affect all other travel to non-Schengen countries as well . In terms of some countries being more strict , if you are ' banned ' , you 're more likely to get back in by applying to one of the countries only recently admitted to the area . They 're allegedly more likely to approve ( presumably either lack of records , or for touristic purposes ) . If you 're then denied further re-entry , you can at best try to appeal for a visa - say for example , on grounds of compassion . For more information , read about <URL> .
Pressure is going to be basically the same as the passengers enjoy , as the entire fuselage is pressurized . The only real difference will be temperature , as the cargo hold area is not usually heated to any great degree unless the aircraft is transporting live animals or cold sensitive perishable items . The cold section of the cargo hold may drop down to 10C ( give or take a few degrees ) , but they would n't let it drop below freezing as they do n't want bottled liquids in suitcases freezing solid .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
The level of support offered by embassies will vary widely from each foreign embassy / consulate to another . A couple of standard support measures provided though are : Contact family members to pass messages along Provide details on contact information on local lawyers , and interpreters if needed . Depending on whether such a support system is available for your nationality , get you <URL> or provide loans for financial aid . Probably more important than what they do provide is what they do n't provide . Embassies do not directly provide legal assistance , immunity , or evacuation just because someone is in trouble with the police . If caught in such a situation , it 's necessary to manage expectations on what an embassy can do realistically . While it is n't always possible to know the local laws of a country , not knowing you did something wrong is rarely ever a valid excuse . Use common sense - and as a rough yardstick do n't do anything illegal in your own country - for starters . This is especially <URL> as they could use legitimate less-known laws or made-up charges to shake you down . Embassies will rarely , if ever , provide assistance in these situations unless something seriously goes wrong . Another thing that can help you receive assistance quickly is your country 's embassy offers any form of registration programme , so that they know your details . Probably not very useful or even necessary for short-term travellers though .
Generally , if you have a through booking , then if you miss the flight because of the airline 's fault then you become their problem . This does n't mean you 'll automatically get put on the next flight . You 'll need to talk to the airline and ask for help , and ask for re-booking . If the next flight has spare seats , then all should be well . Most likely though , you 'll get put on standby for the next flight , and hopefully will make the next one or the one after . As it 's the airline 's fault , you should get meal vouchers , help with a hotel if needed etc. ( Note - the exact level of help you get depends on the jurisdiction you 're in , and the home jurisdiction of the airline ) However , if you miss the connecting flight because of your own fault ( eg you fall asleep while waiting near the gate ) , then it 's probably no different to if you have two independent bookings ...
I take a padlock with me . I only use hostels that have lockers that I can attach my own lock to ( not one where they give you the combination ) . If I am couch surfing , I lock my bag up with it . Maybe this is just paranoia , but I feel like using an anti-theft backpack device just makes you stand out ... I also do n't think it helps too much . My brother and I flew down to Peru a couple years ago . He had a security net over his bag , I did n't . On the Lima to Cusco leg we both had some stuff stolen ... neither of us keep anything of value in checked bags , so they just stole some toiletries .
Usually it 's a refuelling stop , and you just sit on the plane . You do n't go into the terminal , the plane is n't cleaned , and you 're soon on your way again . As an added bonus , the airline is n't charged for using the terminal , so the tickets are sometimes cheaper as a result . Edit After some reading of forums , the whole leaving the plane thing is possible depending on airline or terminal . In addition , another type of technical stop is where for example you have a fuel leak or engine failure and have to land to get it sorted . However these are usually ( obviously ) unplanned , so the fact it 's on your itinerary means it 's likely the former ( fuel stop ) .
It 's simply a " sniffing " device . You could say it " smells " for molecules of things such as explosives . <URL> <URL> There are a number of different varieties . Some have a throw away " swab " or thing that looks like a " piece of tape " on the end . In that case the swab is used once and thrown away . And the plastic stick is nothing more than a $ 2 plastic stick . Other devices are fixed and can be used more than once . The whole thing is usually just called a " swab " " chemical swab " " explosive swab " or the like . So you might say " they ran the explosive swabber over me at security , " or " they swabbed me with the explosive thingy at security , " or whatever . They might run it over you or maybe both you and your hand bags . It 's completely commonplace . These things are everywhere . I 've had it done say 25 % of the time I 've walked through a security ( whether at airports or elsewhere ) . I 've never had a ( false ! ) positive hit . ( I 'm surprised the OP mentions that it has not happened often to the OP - probably just a coincidence . ) Here 's the TSA explaining it in the USA case ... <URL> Notice it 's generally referred to as " swabbing , " " swabbed " . It looks like ( in the US ) this practice started heavily at airports in about twenty years ago ( 2010ish ) , here 's a video of it being done in a CNN article when the thing was news ... <URL> Note that the " insider " term for the technology seems to be " ETD " . Here 's one of the main manufacturers . You can buy some swabs from them if you want . <URL> Notice that all these systems are just profit centers set up by companies with government lobbying power , to make sales . ( I 'm not saying there is n't coincidentally societal advantage , but that 's the reason the system exists . ) The " ETD " thing works well for them because they get to sell BOTH the expensive device , AND the disposable swabs on an ongoing manner ( it 's like having a government contract for both razors and the blades ! ) A company will budget a certain amount of money , $ 20m , whatever , to use a lobbying company in the US Congress to push through regulations , on some level , so that devices like this have to be bought ; then in practice only a tiny number of companies can jump through the hoops to be suppliers . So as long as they can get return on the lobbying consultancy spend , it 's a winner . Job creation ! Here 's a large French company which is a competitor , Safran <URL> ( Those guys make everything for slaughtering/protecting people from rockets down to the swabs we are discussing . ) PS in answer to one of your literal questions , these things search for molecules , and have absolutely no connection in any way to radiation as such . If you think about it " detecting molecules in the air " is , in a sense , the same as " smelling " ... for that reason these things are indeed called " sniffers " or " explosive sniffers " or similar words in other languages . ( Note that radiation detectors for security points is an entirely and totally different technology . Indeed , it is the current thing that the lobbying consultancies are pushing through , these will soon be everywhere as well . )
Special pants are a must . I 'd start looking at sites like <URL> to get an idea . One thing that I would very much suggest is if you have any avid ski enthusiast friends talk to them because they would give you pointers on what is good and where to get it . But a short list for what you need is : Warm socks Pants Warm boots . Ski Gloves Ski Jacket ( Simple warm or even down jacket wo n't do ) I am sure I am missing something on this list but this will be a good start .
Baggage will normally be transferred automatically if you are on a multi-segment trip consisting of transfers ( connections ) rather than stopovers . A transfer is normally 4 hours or less on a domestic itinerary and 24 hours or less on an international itinerary . If the itinerary consists of multiple airlines , the airlines must have an interline baggage agreement to allow the automatic baggage check-through . On some airline combinations , this may also occur even if the itinerary consists of separate tickets . Certain airlines and airports may have other restrictions , for example a given airport may not allow baggage to be checked through if there is an overnight layover at that airport , even though it would be allowed if the layover was the same duration during the day . If your baggage is checked-through to final destination , the final destination and intermediate transfer airports will be shown on the bag tag , so it is useful to glance at this to make sure it has your intended destination on it ; sometimes your bag will be checked-through to a different airport than you were expecting .
Wow , interesting question . Nature-wise there 's SO much to see in Ireland - Cliffs of Moher , Giant 's Causeway , the Dingle Peninsula . There 's sights from Blarney Castle to the amazing history and sights of Belfast . However , if you 're after things specifically that children may enjoy - ' history ' stuff is probably out ;) I 'd suggest the following to include in your itinerary : 1 ) Dingle Peninsula - as well as being a beautiful place and a charming town , you can look for Fungie , Dingle 's resident dolphin . And if you ca n't find him , his statue is down by the boats as well :) 2 ) Giant 's Causeway - a spectacular place with over 40,000 columns of basalt rock , it 'd be fun for kids to climb all over as well . 3 ) The Exploris Aquarium in Northern Ireland : <URL> 4 ) Belfast - the night-time Black Cab tours - sure the history wo n't mean much to the kids , but Black Cabs can be a fun and different vehicle to ride in . And it 's a brilliant tour for adults ! 5 ) Blarney Castle - castles are fun for everyone , and you get to hang off the top and kiss the Blarney stone ! ;) 6 ) The Cliffs of Moher ca n't be skipped - absolutely spectacular ! Plus when you see the Cliffs of Insanity in The Princess Bride , you 'll be able to say you 've been there :) Finally if you 're after some places to eat and stay that are kids friendly : <URL>
end question
start question
Is the border between Georgia and Russia open to citizens of other countries ?
I just met a friend yesterday who came back from a journey to Georgia . He wanted also to cross the border to Russia but it was n't possible . They told him it is only allowed for Russian and Georgian citizens . Do n't know if they told him wrong facts , but afaik the border is closed .
The <URL> says Bus number 25 connects the Quimper Cornouaille Airport to the town centre of Quimper in less than 30 minutes . The bus station is located outside the airport . <URL> is the official site of the bus service , it seems french only but there is a nice route calculator which is n't hard to use and it helps to plan the trip in great detail .
Having some passport not recognized by some country is not that unusual . It 's pretty much certain to happen somewhere for passports of countries with partial recognition . Someone else mentioned passports of Northern Cyprus ( which is only recognized by Turkey ) , which <URL> , is only accepted in 6 countries . But there are many other countries in the same boat . The Republic of China passport : The Republic of China is recognized by 21 UN members plus the Holy See . But its passport is accepted in almost all countries . However , there are some peculiarities . <URL> , a few countries ( Argentina , Kenya , Laos , Nepal , Serbia ) will issue the visa on a separate sheet , not on the passport itself , presumably due to not recognizing the passport . Brazil apparently will require the person apply for a Brazilian laissez-passer as the document to put the visa on . China ( People 's Republic of ) will issue some kind of permit instead . The page for <URL> does not explicitly mention any country where it is not accepted . But common sense would dictate that it is not recognized by Serbia . The Nagorno-Karabakh passport is not recognized anywhere , <URL> ( though it 's unclear if that means it can not be used anywhere ) . For <URL> it says " not valid for travel to most countries " ( not really sure what that means ) . The pages for <URL> and <URL> do not explicitly mention any country where they are not accepted . But again , they would be at least not recognized by the countries that their territory is claimed by ( Azerbaijan for Nagorno-Karabakh , Moldova for Transnistria , Georgia for Abkhazia and South Ossetia ) . The page for <URL> also does not mention where it is not recognized ; but for that case it is conceivable that it could be recognized everywhere . For <URL> , it says it is accepted in 8 countries as unofficial travel documents , which probably means it is not accepted mostly everywhere else . South Koreans visiting North Korea will be issued a visa <URL> .
pnuts did give you the link in comments , but to expand further , from <URL> : A single entry visa allows you to come to Canada only one time . Once you have left Canada , excluding travel to the United States and St. Pierre and Miquelon , you will need a new visa to travel back to and enter Canada . and A multiple entry visa allows visitors to come and go from Canada for six months at a time , without having to reapply each time . It can be valid for up to 10 years , or one month before your passport expires , whichever is earlier . You must arrive in Canada on or before the expiry date on your visa . Specifically to your question : If your visa is still valid and you are travelling only and directly to the United States ( including its Territories and Possessions ) or St. Pierre and Miquelon , you do not need a new visitor visa to return to Canada . So US , St. Pierre and Miquelon are fine - no impact on your visa . All other countries either require a new visa ( if you are on single visit ) or have no impact ( if you are on a multiple entry visa ) . Note that since February 2014 , Canada does not seem to issue single-entry visa any more , so visiting any country should not joepardize the duration you are allowed to stay in Canada : Starting on February 6 , 2014 ( 00:01 EST ) , all visa applicants will automatically be considered for a multiple entry visa .
Buses are leaving from the Ortachala bus station 4 buses a week 20 Lari from Tbilisi to Baku Source : <URL> For times and confirmation of the service , I would still go over to the bus station . The <URL> also mentions buses from Marneuli ( 30km south of Tbilisi ) to Baku .
I 'm answering as a frequent traveler to Russia ( have been to many different cities there over the course of many years ) . First , in all my travels and interactions with Russian authorities , I have never once been asked by any government official for any registration papers ( though I 've always registered when required by law ) . A lot of the scary warnings about registering in Russia date back to the early 2000s , when the laws were much stricter and it was a real possibility to be stopped in the streets of Moscow by police for a random registration check ( as I understand it , such checks are illegal now ) . Registration law has undergone a lot of changes over the years , most notably the official Federal Migration Service site mentions a significant change/relaxation of the law in 2007 ( see <URL> in Russian ) Having said all of the above , here is my understanding of the information on the site above , as well as of the text of the law itself ( <URL> ) : If you 're staying in a hotel ( even for one day ) , the hotel will register you Otherwise , you 're required to register within 7 days of arrival to your " place of stay " ( " место пребывания " ) . It is reasonable to interpret it as " within 7 days of arriving to a particular city " ( there is other mention in the law of being able to change the " place of stay " so I 'm guessing " place of stay " does NOT mean the " final destination " of the trip ) . Sadly , however , there 's no clarification of this anywhere in the law . I guess it would be up to a judge/local authorities to interpret , but again - I do n't think realistically this is a problem . In your situation , I would just keep all the travel documentation and not worry about registering . Confusingly , the English-language page ( <URL> ) does mention registration within 7 days of arriving in Russia ( with no mention of the " place of stay " ) , but I 'm pretty sure this is just a poor translation , or instructions for the common case of someone visiting a single place in Russia . In any case , the English page is not the actual law . If you want to be super-safe , spend your 1st night in a hotel/hostel ( this way you technically are registered in the first 7 days since your arrival ) . Given how confusing this area of the law is , you of course wo n't be immune from random annoyances given your registration-less status . I can think of one example where this happened to me : A hotel clerk ( in a proper , expensive , Western-style hotel ) refused to register me because I have n't registered anywhere within 7 days of arriving into Russia ( because I was hopping from city to city ) - basically , they took the interpretation of the law as stated on the English page above - however , this happened just once , and I do n't think the hotel clerk was an expert on migration law , I think she was just trying to play it safe in the face of confusing information Please keep in mind that I 'm not a lawyer ( especially not a Russian one ) Registration has been an unpleasant and time-consuming process every time I 've done it ( trying to fit into the local FMS office 's schedule , lineups , complex forms that have to be refilled multiple times until you get it just right , extensive documentation requirements - proof of apartment ownership and such , etc ) . It 's worth avoiding it if at all possible .
From <URL> it would seem to be NO , but it does indicate you could travel to Bulgaria . Aussies do n't need a visa for Bulgaria , so you could then take a train up to Bucharest from within Bulgaria . Bucharest to Istanbul is 16 hours , so from Bulgaria would n't be a long trip .
Partial Open Bathrooms , usually refers to ensuite facilities where the sink and mirror are out in the open , while the shower and toilet are inside closed rooms/stalls . A lot of the ones I have seen have a divider between the sleeping area and washing area , but usually just something minimal , like three quarter height screen or wooden slats . It seems to be trending in tropical hotels , but would work well in city hotels , as the design makes the bath area feel bigger while still maximizing the space for the living/sleeping portion
Yes , while not fully harmonised , it is a safe assumption for the countries you mentioned . It follows from a proposal to the EU members in 2007 ( resubmitted in 2011 ) ... PNR data is information provided by passengers during the reservation and booking of tickets and when checking in on flights , as well as collected by air carriers for their own commercial purposes . It contains several different types of information , such as travel dates , travel itinerary , ticket information , contact details , travel agent through which the flight was booked , means of payment used , seat number and baggage information . The data is stored in the airlines ' reservation and departure control databases . Many states access PNR data for the purpose of fighting serious crime and terrorism . PNR data has been used manually for almost 60 years by customs and law enforcement authorities around the world . Technological developments have made it possible to use PNR data more systematically for law enforcement purposes . Source : <URL> The current state of affairs is most of the member states have passed their national legislation and have either implemented the proposal or in an advanced test phase . Currently up to 16 EU countries have decided to collect PNR data , according to Timothy Kirkhope , a British Conservative MEP who steers the file through Parliament . But because there is no EU framework , he said , " airlines have no clarity on how to process the data , and passengers have no clear EU-wide rights to protect booking information such as credit card details , seat number and emergency contact " . Statistics from the Parliament show that most EU countries already have their own PNR systems in place . In 2013 , the European Commission spent $ 50 million to start domestic PNR collection in 14 member states . Source : <URL> The UK enacted the legislation in 2008 in the form of a Statutory Instrument : <URL> In 2010 , the European Commission issued a communication on the sharing of this information with non-member states : <URL> s Earlier this year , 16 July 2015 , the proposal was put to a vote and carried by a slight majority . The full EU framework and harmonisation by members will presumably be complete in 2016 . ... a Dutch national travelling on a Dutch passport via a German international airport to an Asian country be logged ? Having said all of that , we turn to your specific question . The Netherlands has an EU compliant PNR system in place and is still formally in a testing phase . Germany has not yet developed an EU compliant PNR , but uses the version they implemented before the proposal was made . So the answer to your question is still ' yes ' , but data originating in Germany is not kept in an EU compliant format . If yes , for how long is this information retained ? The main legislative instrument at EU level governing this field was the Data Retention Directive , which was adopted in November 2006 following the Madrid terrorist train bombings in 2004 and the public transport bombings in London in 2005 . These resulted in a text which gave room for different applications at national level and which did not guarantee a sufficient level of harmonisation . Source : <URL> does it make a difference if the automated ePassport gates are used rather than the human officers ? No difference , the border inspection process does not play a role in the harvesting of information . Per the proposal the information is collected at the booking and reservation stage .
If you have a GSM phone ( with a SIM-card ) , <URL> is likely to work in many places ( see the list in the link ) . Note that it will work whether you 're roaming , or do n't have a SIM in the phone at all and the phone is locked . That 's basically the only number you 're guaranteed by the GSM standard to always be able to dial , and the mobile operators are required to redirect it to whatever it locally should be .
Legally speaking , you need a valid passport or equivalent travel document to cross any border of a Schengen state , whether it 's an inner or outer border of the Schengen area . I ca n't find a list of equivalent travel documents for France , but <URL> only lists " exotic " alternatives -- documents for refugees , for seafarers , etc. ( Nationals of an EU country and a few others need only an identity card ) . In practice , borders inside the Schengen area are not equipped for systematic checks and there is a high likelihood that you 'll just drive through without even noticing that you 've passed the border . There are ( or used to be ) occasional checks for drug smuggling on the road from the Netherlands to France ; I doubt that it 's a problem if all you can show is a driving license . It 's better if you have your residence permit and a photocopy of your passport -- with these documents , it would take exceptional to get into trouble . As far as I know , there is no direct penalty for not carrying an identity document in France . ( I know that for nationals ; I think it 's also true for non-nationals . ) There is an obligation that you must be able to prove your identity upon request ( technically , the request has to be justified , but in practice a police officer can always find a pretext ) . As a non-national , you 'd also have to prove your right to be there , as otherwise you could be detained and expelled . Again , with a proof of identity such as a driving license , plus a copy of your passport and residence permit , you are very unlikely to get into trouble . The one thing you can not reliably do without a passport is fly . All commercial airlines require a passport ( or identity card ) , even for Schengen internal flights . They often do n't check , but if they do , they 're likely to not let you board the flight if you do n't have documentation that 's acceptable to them .
Recently came back from the trip . Ganzi is an option for better accomedation ( more options ) , and we did stayed there on the way back from Maun . Unfortunately , it was too far from Gaborone for us ( 670 Km ) , and added another 100 Km to the trip . We did found a place to stay in closer to the middle : Kang village which is 420 Km from Gaborone and about 400 Km from the Namibian border post . There are several guest houses and one <URL> , fueling station and convenience store . The second night we stayed across the Namibian border in <URL> .
The ITA Matrix software was developed by MIT engineers . <URL> ( as well as other <URL> ) . Quoting from <URL> : In the mid-nineties , a group of MIT computer scientists took aim at a complex computing challenge that had plagued the travel industry for three decades : how to quickly , consistently and accurately identify the best available airfares without relying on high-cost , low-efficiency mainframe computers . The results of their work was a revolutionary airfare pricing &amp; shopping engine called QPX . The beta version of QPX was first introduced to the public in November 1999 , and Orbitz became the first customer in 2001 . On April 12 , 2011 , Google acquired ITA Software , and shortly thereafter launched Google Flight Search , an incredibly fast and easy way to search and plan travel . So the Matrix is n't better nor worse than Google flights , since the former relies on the latter when looking for flights . It 's just a matter of using one tool versus the other . Personally I stick with the Matrix because I 've grown fond of the interface . The main feature difference would be that you can purchase some plane tickets via Google Flights , whereas the Matrix itself does not allow you to do so . Moreover , the ITA Matrix seems to give you many more search options than Google Flights . Finally , Google Flights , being a Google product , will integrate with other Google products whereas the " pure " Matrix might not always .
There are political reasons behind this and I believe that this is n't the appropriate website to discuss this . Anyway , you can find cheaper rail and air tickets for the BCN-MAD route . Try with <URL> for instance . This website returns prices for airlines and Renfe trains . I 've tested for you some dates and you can fly for less than 30 euros and go by train for less than 40 euros . For example , on february 21th go by air is 27 euros ( Vueling ) and go by rail is 32 euros ( renfe ) . So , the response is : going by high speed train is very expensive but " slow " train has a reasonable price .
It is absolutely legal to shoot at a range as long as you either shoot their guns or bring your own legal firearm to the range provided your weapon meet range 's restrictions . For example : <URL> will rent you a firearm , similar is available from <URL> . Normally the only thing that you need to have with you is a valid photo ID . You can probably use <URL> to limit the list of shooting ranges .
All you need is the HK SAR passport . The page is worded that way because they ca n't say " nationals of Hong Kong " : Hong Kong is a part of China , so there are no citizens of Hong Kong , only <URL> . And they also ca n't say " nationals of China " , because that would give visa-free access to everybody in China . So they say " permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR " , and how do you demonstrate that you are one ? By being a " holder of the Hong Kong SAR passport " . Where you actually live is irrelevant . Your question also implies that residency of Hong Kong alone is enough to get visa-free access to Russia , but this is not the case ; for example , <URL> .
The ministries of foreign affairs of many countries offer travel advice on their websites . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc ... These sites are well known for their advice on safety and security and entry requirements . Nevertheless , they also have sections on " local laws and customs " . Look for instance <URL> .
Agreed , Macapá is in the most deserted state of Brazil . Being right by the mouth of the Amazon river , you run into the same problem that Oyapack suffered until the bridge - a giant expanse of water . However , taxis for R$ 30 can take you 25km south-west to the town of Santana . From there , you can can travel by boat across the river to Belém ( 24 hours ) , Santarem ( 40 hours , hammock R$ 125 , cabin R$ 250 ) and Manaus ( 5 days ) - plus some other smaller places . From these cities you can easily get buses to travel further south . I reckon one of my dream trips is to do this to Manaus , then to take a 6 day boat ride up the Amazon to Leticia in Colombia . It sounds amazing !
As a rule of thumb , the worse the visa regime , the worse the country 's regime . It 's the tinpot dictatorships of the world ( Turkmenistan , North Korea , Saudi Arabia , Angola , etc ) that make it <URL> and watch visitors most closely , not because they 're particularly concerned about Norwegians stealing their jobs , but because they 're afraid that they 're actually { journalists , dangerous infidels , disguised CIA spies , etc } out to { steal their military secrets , report on human rights issues , lead the faithful astray , steal their women , etc } . Or , in the case of the United States , suffering from bed-wetting hysteria about foreign terrorists . China is somewhere in the middle of the spectrum : not particularly bad as far as visas or regimes are concerned , but still pretty paranoid about foreigners snooping about where they should n't ( eg . Tibet without a tour guide ) and with a strong preference for more state control rather than less . Inertia is also a factor : no bureaucrat ever got fired for imposing more restrictions , whereas letting a bad apple in may be a career-limiting move .
First Class on the TGV means a wider seat , power sockets , less people ( so a generally quieter environment ) , and that 's about it . Standard Premier on the Eurostar is pretty much the same , except you get a small cold dish and a cold alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage . The difference in price is more due to demand than the actual cost of the service . Whether it 's worth it is up to you . The choice is not between Eurostar Standard Premier and TGV First Class , the choice is between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier . If the price difference between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier is small enough to you that it 's worth it to spend those two hours with more space , a power socket , and a small free meal , then go for it . note : carriages 5 &amp; 14 have power sockets on the Eurostar , so if you book a seat in one of those and buy yourself a nice meal from M&amp;S to take on the train , the difference comes down only to the difference in seat size .
end question
start question
How does one visit a cult leader Vissarion ?
First of all , <URL> is very big thing , so address in the Taiga is n't much helpful for you :) Secondary , my apologies about some information is only in Russian , especially maps . The Curch of the Last Testament has their village in the <URL> . Their site is very old , and the only thing working there is the <URL> . Also they have <URL> , and there is the <URL> . <URL> is : 662925 , Krasnoyarsk Krai , Kuraginsky District , d. Petropavlovka , ul . Kolhoznaya , d. 9 . Please note that Tiberkul is named after <URL> , which is situated in 130 kilometers from Kuragino ( district center ) and in 30 kilometers from Cheremshanka village . Other villages near the lake are : Tagasuk , Zharovsk , Gulyaevka . According <URL> and <URL> , the roads to the lake is available ONLY IN WINTER - on snow ( from Gulyaevka and Cheremshanka ) . In other time , you can get there only by two methods : helicopter local citizens 's tankets and tractors :) Also <URL> is some information about some club in <URL> , which regulary goes to the lake on their off-roaders , but this is quite uncertain .
First of all , <URL> is very big thing , so address in the Taiga is n't much helpful for you :) Secondary , my apologies about some information is only in Russian , especially maps . The Curch of the Last Testament has their village in the <URL> . Their site is very old , and the only thing working there is the <URL> . Also they have <URL> , and there is the <URL> . <URL> is : 662925 , Krasnoyarsk Krai , Kuraginsky District , d. Petropavlovka , ul . Kolhoznaya , d. 9 . Please note that Tiberkul is named after <URL> , which is situated in 130 kilometers from Kuragino ( district center ) and in 30 kilometers from Cheremshanka village . Other villages near the lake are : Tagasuk , Zharovsk , Gulyaevka . According <URL> and <URL> , the roads to the lake is available ONLY IN WINTER - on snow ( from Gulyaevka and Cheremshanka ) . In other time , you can get there only by two methods : helicopter local citizens 's tankets and tractors :) Also <URL> is some information about some club in <URL> , which regulary goes to the lake on their off-roaders , but this is quite uncertain .
end question
start question
What are the hours of operation of the Ankara Metro ?
<URL> : 6:00 to 23:50 ( time of departure from each terminus , arrival 15 -- 20 minutes later at the end station , if I understand the automatic translation from Turkish correctly ) <URL> : 6:00 to 23:40 ( time of departure from each terminus , with an extra train from Kızılay 0:20 to Ostim 0:40 )
Short answer - as best as I can find : No . However this does n't mean there wo n't be . Historically book tours that exist have tended to only appear once a movie exists . While Harry Potter existed in book form , platform 9 and 3/4 at Kings Cross only appeared after movies featured it , and Lord of the Rings tours in New Zealand obviously only appeared to show filming locations ( as obviously there 's no real middle earth to tour ) . The best option aside from doing your own might be ( if you had the cash ) to approach a custom tour company in the regions and ask them to create one for you .
A 15 day Vietnam VOA allows you to stay in the country for 15 days ... pretty simple really . The day you arrive is Day 1 . The day you depart needs to be Day 15 or sooner . Like most countries the counted day starts at midnight and ends at midnight , so entering through immigration at 11:59 pm still counts as Day 1 . And departing at 11:59 pm on Day 15 is still Day 15 ( hope there are no lines if you try that ;-) . I actually do not know of any countries that stamp date &amp; time of entry then count days as 24 hour periods from that time , like car rental companies .
As I originally pointed out the quantity was with-in reasonable personal use , but still theoretically subject to tax . I did declare the small overage but customs agents were n't interested in it and waved me through . Here are the rates for <URL> and for <URL> that I 'd have had to have payed , they amount to under $ 5 a bottle .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
That refers specifically to the Australian Document of Identity , which is a complicated and obscure legal fudge primarily intended to let people travel to Norfolk Island without a passport : <URL> Norfolk Island is an Australian territory that , until very recently , was largely self-governing and excluded from most Australian taxes and benefits . The government needed a way to track people traveling there , but could n't insist on a passport ( since it 's not a foreign country ) , hence the DOI .
Bride kidnapping , in general , is specific to the Kazakh community . It 's not what Western communities would imagine of kidnapping , in that <URL> and indeed ( and terribly ) <URL> <URL> via social isolation and exclusion . It 's largely ritualized and <URL> : In the case of non-consensual bride kidnapping , a woman is physically kidnapped by a man she hardly knows or by a man she is clearly not interested in . As such you and your travelling companions should n't be targets for bride kidnapping . However there are <URL> , despite <URL> <URL> to the contrary . That would be of more concern , but it seems that occurrences are no more likely in the Kazakh parts of Mongolia as opposed to any other part of the country , or indeed other countries .
I 'm not familiar with regulations and expectations in Clinton Hill , but in general for Brooklyn : Is this legal ? Yes , and it turns out , necessary . Is it safe ? Different neighborhoods have different levels of safety , and I 'm not sure how to compare to where you live in Ecuador , but most people who own a vehicle in a residential neighborhood do it . Is it possible ( or advisable ) to leave your car overnight parked on the street ? There is very little parking in the residential neighborhoods , so almost all of the residents leave their cars parked in the streets over night , as there is no alternative . On thing you should be aware of is alternate side of the street parking rules . These rules are in place to allow for street cleaning and the specifics will be posted on signs in your neighborhood . The general rule is that on a specific day of the week for a specific time window , no parking is allowed on one side of the street . You may not get caught , but if the street sweeper shows up and your car is parked on that side , you will get a ticket and possibly towed . As an example , for your street maybe Tuesdays from 8-12 you can not park on the left side and Wednesday from 12-4 you can not park on the right . This has become a way of life in these neighborhoods and if you are around at the start or end times you will often see people watching for an open spot so the can move as soon as the time changes .
Update 19 July : The <URL> . By now I assume that most flights to Turkey operate as scheduled , but it is best to check before flying . You should still consider travel advice from your government . <URL> still is at the same level , with the threats now more due to terrorism than the attempted coup : The attempted coup in Turkey has failed and the situation is normalising . Localised military activity continues . Airport operations in Istanbul and Ankara are returning to normal , with additional security measures in place . Airports are very crowded . We recommend you confirm your travel arrangements before travelling to the airport . You should continue to avoid unnecessary travel , large gatherings and demonstrations . and the latest update as of today : Travellers are reminded of the high threat of terrorism in Turkey . We continue to receive information that indicates that terrorists may be planning attacks in Turkey which could take place at any time . Further attacks in urban centres are expected . It is likely some attacks will target western interests , including tourists . Due to the high threat of terrorist attack , we recommend you reconsider your need to travel to Ankara and Istanbul . Across Turkey , you should exercise heightened caution and be vigilant to your personal safety and surroundings . The level of our advice has not changed . Update 16 July : <URL> We strongly advise you to stay indoors , avoid public places , in particular demonstrations , and remain vigilant . And <URL> ( applies to citizens of all countries IMHO , emphasis mine ) : The security situation in Turkey , particularly in Ankara and Istanbul , remains tense . You should stay indoors and avoid unnecessary travel . The security situation may be fluid for some time . Ataturk international airport and Sabiha Gokcen international airport in Istanbul have resumed limited operations although delays and possibly flight diversions are likely . All inbound and outbound flights at Esenboga airport in Ankara have been cancelled until 1800 local time . You should contact your airline or travel agent for information about your travel arrangements , including connecting flights , but in the meantime suggest you avoid gathering at Ataturk Airport until confirmation of resumption of normal service . Avoid any large gatherings or demonstrations . The President has urged all citizens to show support for democracy on the streets in major cities on the evening of 16 July . Australians should avoid any such gathering . We continue to advise Australians to exercise a high degree of caution in Turkey overall and to reconsider their need to travel to Istanbul and Ankara . Higher levels apply in some , other parts of Turkey . Many airlines have cancelled flights , e.g. . <URL> Lufthansa has cancelled all flights between Frankfurt and Istanbul , as well as , all flights between Munich and Turkey for today 16 July 2016 for security reasons . Our connections between Frankfurt and Antalya , as well as , the flight v.v. Frankfurt-Bodrum will be operated as planned . US airlines are not allowed to fly in our out of Istanbul and Ankara airports as of yesterday : Per the Federal Aviation Administration 's notice to airmen ( NOTAM ) dated July 15 , 2016 , U.S. airline carriers are prohibited from flying to or from Istanbul and Ankara airports . All airline carriers , regardless of country of registry , are prohibited from flying into the United States from Turkey either directly or via third country . and see <URL> I do not have an overview but apparently some flights are going in and out of Istanbul again , mostly with Turkish Airlines . If you were scheduled to travel , contact your airline . Turkish has published <URL> Old post as of 15 July : As usual <URL> are the best source of info for flights into Istanbul . Check there for the latest info buried in discussions . Apparently as of now at least some flights of Turkish Airlines are still landing at IST while those of foreign carriers are diverted to other airports . BBC reports the airport ( IST I assume ) to be closed . Travel advice for people in Turkey would be to stay put wherever you are and keep out of trouble . As of the <URL> : The U.S. State Department said Americans in Turkey should shelter indoors .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
It 's not hard to identify flights which may fly over the Grand Canyon -- but finding out which ones definitely will , and whether or not you will have a view if you take one , are a different story . With some trial and error , you can find flights that pass over the area on any of the websites that offer flight tracking , like <URL> . Grand Canyon National Park is labeled on the " Aviation Sectional " map view , and its contours are visible on that view as well as the " Earth View . " Since FlightAware and similar services show the actual reported flight paths of aircraft , they are more reliable for discovery than , for example , tools like the <URL> , which rely on purely mathematical calculations . The <URL> shows aircraft currently reports in an area , though this will include many non-commercial flights . As there is a good amount of traffic through this area headed to and from Southern California or Phoenix , you can try plugging in city pairs like MSP-LAX , SLC-PHX , or SEA-TUS in the " <URL> " for some ideas . There is a great deal of variation in actual flight paths , however . Flight plans take into account the winds and the weather , and flights are subject to rerouting by the air traffic control system . Consider that on 25 September 2014 , <URL> passed straight over the eastern Grand Canyon , but today , <URL> flies well to the northwest , bypassing it entirely . Even if you had been on the 25 September flight , you might not have had much of a view . There could have been clouds ; or the plane might have been turning , banking your side of the plane towards the sky ; or you may have passed at an angle that showed only a vague gap on the horizon , and not any view into the canyon itself . But most importantly , of course , you 'd have been flying through the area after sunset . While approaches to airports are somewhat more predictable -- airports have certain prevailing wind patterns and certain preferred runways -- the path an aircraft will take over such a large area is much less certain . If you 're really excited about the idea of flying over the Grand Canyon , I suggest you look into booking an <URL> . Otherwise , enjoy the flight as best you can , and think of any Grand Canyon sightings as a nice bonus .
In addition to other answers , I can think of : A psychological advantage , people who hate flying tend to board late . This somehow makes them feel better . If the plane is not full and you are boarding last , you can sit at any empty seat . Passengers who board early usually sit in their assigned seats to avoid any embarrassments unlike people who board late ( they know there 's few people left ) If you were trying to use some smart ways to be upgraded to B/C or F/C , boarding late is important . If you have an aisle seat ( especially in wide bodied airplane ) boarding late is better to avoid standing and getting out of the way to let people sit . If you are a paranoid person and you are obsessed about gear collapse , boarding late will decrease the chances of facing a gear collapse situation ( gears collapse while the plane is parked , causing the fuselage to hit the ground which might lead to injury ) .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
What you 're after is <URL> - the cooking associated with the area . Appetizers , soups , and salads Meat and seafood Rice Sides Wikipedia goes on to explain that the geography is the main factor in distinguishing the region 's culinary identity from other areas of the South . There 's an abundance of shrimp , fish , crabs , and oysters in the estuary system , and the marshlands of South Carolina are also conducive to growing rice , and that grain has become a major part of the everyday diet over time .
On the page for <URL> there 's a separate section For seamen traveling within Europe which strongly suggests that 's what your " Marine " refers to - a seaman .
Yep , it 's real . This wiki article corresponds with the information you have , and searching the island name itself pulls up lots of information about the destination in mind for you : <URL> Vaadhoo island is famous for the ' sea of stars . ' This marine bioluminescence is generated by phytoplankton known as dinoflagellates . Woodland Hastings of Harvard University has for the first time identified a special channel in the dinoflagellate cell membrane that responds to electrical signals -- offering a potential mechanism for how the algae create their unique illumination . Keep in mind though ; there are plenty of alternatives to Vaadhoo Island in the Maldives , which is a resort area . For more sites to visit , you can refer to <URL> . To sum it up , there are places in Europe , US , Asia , and Australia where you can view such phenomenom ; the " Sea of Stars " is n't as localized as you think . To prevent link rot I 've added in a shortened list of the destinations in the article cited above : Australia Cairns Gippsland Lakes United States Manasquan Beach , NJ Mission Bay , San Diego , CA Torrey Pines Beach , San Diego , CA Cortez , FL Caribbean Luminous Lagoon , Trelawny , Jamaica Mosquito Bay , Vieques , Puerto Rico Asia Halong Bay , Vietnam Bali , Indonesia Ton Sai , Krabi , Thailand Toyama Bay , Japan Europe Zeebrugge , Belgium Norfolk , UK Indian Ocean Reethi Beach , Maldives Vaadhoo Islands , Maldives
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
From the <URL> : Transit passengers who do not clear customs will not have access to any ATM in Incheon Airport . The only ATMs at Incheon airport are outside the sacred circle of customs . So if you need cash when you land at Incheon , you have to clear customs . There are two currency exchanges on the transit side that will exchange money into Korean won , as well as most stores/restaurants accepting US dollars and some other currencies .
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
end question
start question
3 days in London . What do I absolutely have to see ?
Each person has their own taste , so this questions is almost subjective . However , after living there for four years , I now know there are certain things that EVERY tourist seems to want to do or see . St Paul 's . It 's one of the greatest cathedrals in Europe , and I 've heard people say it 's their European highlight , the pinnacle of sights that they 've seen . On a Sunday you can get in free , although you wo n't have access to everywhere inside . Westminster Abbey and a photograph of Big Ben . When you come out of Westminster tube station , it 's tourists EVERYWHERE . But I suggest coming out at Waterloo station and walking across the bridge to Big Ben - you 'll get a better photograph . Westminster Abbey is just behind it , and like St Paul 's , some of it is free to access on Sunday 's . Note that only residents can go up Big Ben , and even they have to apply to their local Member of Parliament months in advance for a tour . Tower of London . My favourite tourist attraction . I spent the better part of a day here , and could easily go back for more . Get there early to beat the crowds . Right next to it is Tower Bridge - which most people think is called London Bridge . London Bridge is actually flat and boring ;) The London Eye . Giant ferris wheel next to Waterloo station , the queues are insane on weekends . This is a polarising attraction - people either think it 's a waste of money , or a must-see . I 've been twice - during day and night , and loved it . The museums . British Museum , Imperial War Museum , Natural History Museum and Science Museum are the big famous ones , but there are smaller ones too if you search around . The best part is that most of them ( including all the big ones I 've just mentioned ) are free ! The London Underground . It sounds odd , but it 's such a fundamental part of London , that you need to make sure you ride it a few times on different lines . Perhaps in from Heathrow , or to the museums , as it 's nice to walk around above ground in central London , and it 's surprising how close together everything is . Picadilly Circus and Oxford Circus . Walk through , take photo , move on . They 're famous , historic , but they only take a few minutes ;) Buckingham Palace . You ca n't always go inside , and most people claim the changing of the guard is over-rated , but there 's still something about seeing it ! The parks . Make sure to check out at least St James Park , and Hyde Park . London Zoo and Camden Market . They 're close by . Come out of Camden tube station nice and early , check out the market for a bit . Then walk to the zoo - it 's historic , and has quite a few animals you do n't see many of . Bonus sights ! Richmond Park - my favourite park in all of London . Take the tube or overland to Richmond , and ask someone for directions from there . It 's about a 20 min walk to get there , and then you 're in the largest open air space in all of Greater London , with two large herds of deer , and a protected view all the way back to St Paul 's , the Gherkin and the London Eye . Fantastic place on a clear day , or when there 's fresh snow on the ground :) Borough Market and Southbank - close to London Bridge , and open from Thursday to Saturday , the fresh food and coffee is a great start to your morning , before you walk along Southbank to Tower Bridge , or west to Waterloo . London Bridge station , Borough Market exit , west side of Borough High street .
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
So I found an answer in a <URL> , although someone may have a more detailed route , especially as it gets closer to the Olympics themselves .
Yes you will have to pay duty , as it is a new item that was purchased overseas . If you were at home , lost it and bought a new replacement , you will have paid Australian duty on that item , as the importer paid duty when it originally came from the factory ( and of course included the cost of that duty in the selling price you paid ) . In this case , if you buy it overseas Australia still wants its import duty . They do n't really care why you bought it again , only that duty is paid on products imported into the country . Your real question at this point ( and one likely only the insurance agency can answer ) is will your travel insurance provider pay both the replacement amount AND the subsequent duty you have to pay upon returning home , since they are both part of the " replacing the item " cost
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
Your best bet is to travel on Thanksgiving Day ( Thursday ) -- the airports wo n't be too crowded then , and fares are usually substantially cheaper . Tuesday might also be a cheap day , but try to avoid Wednesday at all costs -- it is one of the busiest travel days of the year in the US , if not the most . Since most people are traveling home to be with their families , good hotel deals should be much easier to find in Las Vegas than LA or SF . In most US cities , things will be pretty dead on Thanksgiving Day . Most stores and restaurants close early if they open at all , although I know from family traditions that movie theaters are open ( and popular ) after the early Thanksgiving Day feast . Just about everything is open extremely early ( ~ 5 AM in many cases ) the next day for Black Friday , the most popular shopping day of the year . Avoid the stores on that day , unless you 're looking to score some really cheap deals or you 're the kind of person that likes to witness complete chaos firsthand . And if you do somehow manage to arrive by Wednesday evening , that is a great " going-out " night as everyone hits the bars to let off steam before dealing with their families for the next four days .
Ok then , some suggestions , as I 've been to Valencia a couple of times . West of Valencia is Requena , a fantastic little Spanish town . The night before La Tomatina is the festival of water and wine , but as you 're going in December , you can just enjoy the town itself . It used to be a Moorish fortress , and parts of the town date from the 13th century . All sorts of random little streets and twists and turns . Closer , but still west of Valencia again is Buñol , where La Tomatina occurs . Again , nice town to walk around and explore , cool squares to sit with a coffee and soak it up . I spent several hours walking around here trying to find anyone who would let us use a phone , after being pickpocketed at La Tomatina , so I know it well . At least if you go in December there wo n't be passed-out Aussies everywhere ;) 90km north of Valencia are some hot springs . I wanted to go , but found it really difficult to get information on them , and did n't have much time anyway . But they sounded incredible . Finally , and I know this is vague and really unlike me as normally place names are easy , but there 's a Unesco heritage site - a castle fort village place on a hill . It 's SPECTACULAR . But for the life of me I ca n't remember the name . It 's 2 hours by car from Valencia . My searching has revealed <URL> which seems to pretty much match it and looks amazing , but <URL> do n't jog any memories currently . Still , it looks incredible too :) Ok , after finding <URL> I 'm now a little more convinced that it may well be the right castle . Also , and I know you did n't request it , but in Valencia , go see the Holy Grail , and the new area of Valencia is spectacular and well worth a walk . You can also go down to the docks and see the America 's Cup Village with all the companies that compete - Team New Zealand , Oracle and the like .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
I started trying to solve this by finding photos from Cyprus . I found some , but they 're not very conclusive . Then I realised we could do this mathematically ! The approximate distance to the horizon from an observer close to the Earth 's surface is given by : where d is in kilometres and h is height above sea level in metres . Examples : For an observer standing on the ground with h = 1.70 metres ( 5 ft 7 in ) ( average eye-level height ) , the horizon is at a distance of 5.0 kilometres ( 3.1 mi ) . For an observer standing on a hill or tower of 100 metres ( 330 ft ) in height , the horizon is at a distance of 39 kilometres ( 24 mi ) . As you 've pointed out , it 's about 100km - I plugged it into <URL> and reckon it 's about 105km . So solving for h , we find we need to be at a height of 742m above sea level at the closest point . Unfortunately nowhere even comes close on the eastern side . So we have one shot - Mount Olympus , which is 1952m . Solving for d , we can get d = ~ 170km . However the distance from the top of Mount Olympus to the nearest point in Lebanon is well over 250km , meaning that NO , you can not see Lebanon from any point in Cyprus . EDIT The highest point in Lebanon is Qurnat As Sawda . So perhaps you can see from Olympus to here ? Let 's find out : From the top of Olympus to the top of Qurnat As Sawda is about 302km as the crow flies . If we sum their heights , we get 5040m . To be able to see 302km , we solve for h , and work that out as a mountain which would need to be 6134m high . So again , no , but it is a bit closer :)
Barcelona is a great place to visit ; it has been the object of lots of changes some twenty years ago when it hosted the Olympic Games and it has resulted in a general improvement of the area . As you probably know , Barcelona is the town where the Catalan architect Antoni Gaudí worked and it can show some of the best examples of his visionary form of art . You ca n't miss visiting <URL> , the expiatory temple which was recently opened for rites but which is not yet completed , or <URL> , now a public park on a hill which he meant to become an example of integration between normal city life and art and nature . Closer to the town centre you have <URL> , better known as La Pedrera , another incredibly interesting building which demonstrates Gaudí 's genius . All these places can be visited ( the only free one is Parque Güell ) , whereas Casa Batlló must be seen from the outside unless you have arranged a special visit or event . One more thing I would recommend to get the feeling of the place is a visit to the <URL> , an incredible covered food market where you can buy almost anything and where you can easily get a savoury meal for little money . It is just on <URL> , a long tree-lined avenue which goes down from Plaza Catalunya to the port and which is a must-see for all tourists . One museum which in my opinion you can do without is the Picasso Museum , particularly if you have already seen some of his paintings in other places .
So as you have realised , a visa is required for tourist purposes for citizens of Saudi Arabia visiting South Africa . It depends a little on how thorough you want to be - but basically , the more prepared you are , the better chance you have . For example , the most <URL> include : Passport valid for 6 months beyond date of departure . 2 passport-size photos with signature on reverse side . 1 completed application form ( failure to complete the application fully and in detail may result in visa being delayed or refused ) . Proof of sufficient funds to cover visit . Onward/return ticket and , if in transit , proof of sufficient documentation for admission to the country of destination . Extra ones that <URL> include : No criminal record ( if you have proof of this , it could be useful ) Be of sound body and mind ( hard to prove this though ! ) A plan describing your intent while in South Africa - where you 're staying , what you want to do Evidence of hotels booked , car rentals and the like Contacts in case of emergency in South Africa ( if you have any ) A vaccination certificate Passport valid for no less than 30 days after the expiry of the intended visit . Proof of travel insurance / medical cover Now the problem you have is most sites seem to say it can take 3-10 days to process . Of course as you travel a lot , you 're probably aware that money can usually make these delays go away . Talk nicely to the embassy staff , ask if there 's anything extra they might need , make sure all your documents are nicely organised , ask them about South Africa while talking - see if they 're from there and if they have favourite places ( makes a connection , meaning more chance of them helping you out ) .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
No , it 's not the same . Whether that 's the case for a given journey will depend on a few details but , unlike the US , there is no blanket requirement to pick up your luggage and walk it through customs when entering Germany or the EU . Usually , in Europe , your luggage will be routed to your final destination and you will clear customs there . You have n't provided much detail but I expect it wo n't be necessary to collect your luggage in this case . However , immigration formalities ( passport check by the police , Schengen entry stamp , etc. ) will have to be completed in Munich . There is some info on transit time in Munich in <URL>
It very much depends where you want to be for the drop . <URL> hosts a party which is technically in Times Square , just high up , and ages 18 + may attend , or 16 + with an adult . The <URL> lets a family of any ages , although drinks will differ depending on age . Also you 'd need to be with your family , presumably . <URL> also points out that the general access will see elderly and children as well as the usual revellers , but to remember that it 's bitterly cold at that time of year . You also need to queue almost the entire day to get in . Given the thousands of people , the surging crowd , drunkenness , night , the need to queue all day and the need to get back home afterwards , it 'd be highly unadvisable for a child/teenager to do it on their own , however , with a family , it 's certainly possible , and there are family friendly areas .
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
British Airways provide a <URL> , including all about Flight Connections . I 'd very much suggest you read through that . To tackle the main bits , assuming you have a single ticket covering both legs of your journey : You will not pass through UK customs You will not pass through UK immigration Your bags will be checked through to your final BA destination , so wo n't have to be collected or re-checked . ( Check the baggage tags given to you at checkin to ensure they have been tagged all the way through ) If your starting airport is able , they 'll give you your second boarding pass If not , you 'll have to go to the flight connections desk to collect it On arrival , you 'll follow the purple Flight Connections signs , and have your boarding pass + passport checked You will have to clear security , which is upstairs from flight connections , before you enter the main departures area of the terminal As long as there are no flight delays on your inbound , 2 hours will be fine . Queues to get your boarding pass checked before security tend not to be too bad , and while security can be shocking at times , we 're talking 30-45 minutes at bad times . One thing to check when you arrive is what bit of T5 you arrive in , and where you go from . T5 actually has three buildings , linked by an underground shuttle train , T5A ( the main bit ) , T5B and T5C . If you arrive at B or C gates , and depart again from B or C , you can clear flight connections and security there , which is generally a lot quieter . However , if either flight involves the main A gates , you 'll have to do security there , which can have delays at busy times . I 've managed to find a CC-BY photo from <URL> which shows what you 'd see at T5A : This is at the far end of the Purple Flight Connections signs in T5A . To your right are the desks , where you 'd go to collect your onward boarding pass if you did n't already have it . To the left is the UK border , which you 'd have got to if you 'd followed the yellow arrivals signs instead . Straight ahead is where they 'll check your passport and scan your onwarding boarding pass , then it 's up the escalators in the background to get to security . You need to get your boarding pass scanned by 35 minutes before departure ( conformance ) , so with 2 hours you 'll be fine !
Belfast is awesome place . There are many attractions in Belfast . I recommend you visit Grand Opera House , Royal Ulster Rifles Museum , Belvoir Park Golf Club , The Odyssey , Queens Film Theatre , Ulster Museum , Titanic Dock and Pump House , City Hall etc.Last time during my Europe travel I visited Belfast it is really beautiful place .
end question
start question
Are there any places to leave luggage in Brussels , for short and/or long periods of time ?
Train Station Facilities At least three of Brussel 's railway stations offer left-luggage facilities . The busiest of the three stations ( Centraal ) is about two kilometres from each of the others and about 11 kilometres south west of Brussels airport ( itself about 45 kilometres north of Charleroi airport ) : <URL> Brussels North ( Nord / Noord ) Luggage Storage The <URL> mentions automatic locker facilities : Luggage lockers Automatic Luggage lockers Brussels Central ( Central / Centraal ) Luggage Storage The <URL> mentions automatic locker facilities : Luggage lockers Automatic Luggage lockers Lost property phone : 022246004 The <URL> are : Small , 36 " x15 " x12 " ; Medium , 36 " x24 " x15 " ; Jumbo , 36 " x36 " x20 " . For completeness sake , <URL> . Brussels South ( Zuid / Midi ) Luggage Storage According to The Man in Seat 61 , <URL> : Brussels Midi has both luggage lockers and a staffed left luggage facility near the Eurostar check-in and Thalys reception . Both are open 24 hours a day , the staffed facility costs $ 4.00 per item per calendar day , the 3 sizes of lockers cost $ 3 , $ 3.50 , $ 4 per 24 hours . This is confirmed by the <URL> : Luggage lockers Staffed left-luggage service Automatic Luggage lockers Phone : 022248862 . How Long Can You Store For ? None of these sites specify the maximum duration you can leave the luggage for . <URL> says that the lockers are available for 72h , as specified in <URL> . More interesting is <URL> stating that there appears to be no maximum number of days : Well , I asked this morning . The rate is 3.3 $ per piece per calendar day ( NOT 24-hour period ... if you drop something off at 10 pm and pick it up the next morning at 9 am , you have to pay for two days ) . So you 're looking at a cost of roughly 33 $ . The lockers are definitely 24 hours maximum . To be sure you can try calling the left luggage service at Brussels Midi and ask : Airport Facilities Brussels Airport ( BRU ) <URL> , mentioning dimensions , prices and maximum storage duration . To date there are two storage areas , one in the public area of the airport and one in the airside transit area . PUBLIC AREA Baggage lockers are available on level 0 on the left against the façade for anyone leaving the terminal via the exit bus station . The use of a locker cost $ 7.50 per 24 hours . Payment is made with coins of $ 0.50 , $ 1 and $ 2 . The change machine near the lockers accepts banknotes of $ 5 , $ 10 and $ 20 . Locker dimensions : Width : 54 cm | Height : 89 cm | Depth : 80 cm Oversized baggage Oversized baggage can also be deposited on level 0 . To do so please ring tel. . +32 2 753 30 13 or use the interphone which is available free of charge near the lockers . Storage costs $ 7.50 for 24 hours for 3 pieces of luggage For every extra piece of luggage $ 2.50 will be charged . TRANSIT AREA Small luggage lockers are also available in the shopping area of Pier A , ground floor and 1st floor . These lockers can also be rented for short periods . The charge is : $ 1 for 30 minutes $ 2 for 1 hour $ 3 for 2 hours $ 5 for 24 hours How Long Can You Store For ? The <URL> says that the lockers in the public area of the airport can be used for an unlimited amount of time . However , after 72h the lockers are emptied and their content is moved to a dedicated storage area , from which they can be retrieved by getting in touch with the staff : Duration is unlimited . However , after 72 hours your belongings will be removed from the locker and stored in a storage room . To recover your belongings , please use the interphone next to the lockers and an attendant will hand them to you against payment of the balance due . The rate will be the number of days or part of a day multiplied by the daily rate of $ 7.50 The same webpage says that lockers in the airside transit area of the airport can be rented for a short period of time , without any specification of the maximum duration of such rental . Brussels South Charleroi Airport ( CRL ) <URL> which mentions automatic lockers which can be found outside the terminal next to the taxi rank . There is no mention as to the maximum rental duration . Luggage storage Automatic lockers are available outside the terminal , next to the taxi rank . You can leave any kind of luggage there . The lockers are charged per 24hr period ( the lockers accept EUR coins ) : Small locker = 5 $ Medium locker = 7 $ Large locker = 9 $
It turns out that Ortachala and Didube are not the only places to catch a bus or marshrutka in Tbilisi . It 's easier to find the departure times on the Internet when you know the names of the others . Here is the full info compiled from the official government published Tbilisi Guide tourist information handbook : By bus <URL> ( ორთაჭალა ) a.k.a Tbilisi Central Auto Station , a.k.a Central Bus Station , in the south of the city , not near a metro station . 11.30 22.30 <URL> ( დედაქალქკი ) Literally " Capital " , in the centre of the city near Station Square metro station . 10.00 13.00 16.00 00.00 ( midnight ) By marshrutka ( mini bus ) <URL> ( ოკრიბა ) In the north of the city near Didube metro station . 09.00 then hourly until 17.00 <URL> ( დედაქალქკი ) Literally " Capital " , in the centre of the city near Station Square metro station . 09.00 11.30 14.00 16.30 19.00 00.00 ( midnight ) References : <URL> <URL> <URL> ( for explaining the locations and names of the bus stations )
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
<URL> If you select Terminal 2 International and click on each one of the shops listed , you 'll see that a few of them are found before security . These are : Jaya He Museum Store Jaya He Museum Store offers exquisite art , craft and design based collectibles made by renowned and upcoming artists of India . Pick exquisite art and craft forms in contemporary styles inspired by the Jaya He GVK New Museum at T2 . The Museum store also feature an exhibition outlet selling real time works of celebrated artists in the original form as well as product adaptations . Location : Departures , Level 4 Kama Ayurveda Browse through Kama Ayurveda 's treatment based and Internationally acclaimed holistic solutions for the skin , hair and body made with pure , natural and organic ingredients . Location : Terminal 2 , Level 3 , South-west pier , International Departures Xpress Xpress is a one-stop airport shop for a wide assortment of books &amp; magazines , choicest Indian snacks , beverages , gift items , toys and daily essentials . Stopover to pick up a few essentials before you board . Location : Level 4 , International Departures , Before Security Check Level 2 , International to Domestic Transfer Area Level 3 , International Departures , After Security Check , South West Pier I 'm not sure what means , but there might even be a pharmacy available at Terminal 2 : Apollo Pharmacy Forgot first aid for the long trip ? Headache ? Tummy trouble ? Head to the Apollo Pharmacy for all your medical needs . Location : Departures - Opposite Security Check Area - 1 I 'll let you search for available shops in the remaining terminals .
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
There is really no ' trick ' to this type of travel . If you want to book this as a single itinerary then the only ' trick ' is to go to as many booking sites ( brokers and airlines ) as you can manage and do price comparisons . It helps to have some flexibility in the dates . If you do n't mind booking multiple tickets , probably the best deal on this trip will be to buy two round trip tickets . First A - > B - > A and then , separately , B - > C - > B with the latter ticket being within the time you spend in city B . The main issue with this is that these are independent tickets . If flight A - > B is delayed , causing you to miss B - > C then you are responsible for buying a new B - > C ticket . Since you plan on staying in B before proceeding to C , this will only be a problem on your return journey where a delay in C - > B can cause you to miss B - > A. Ideally , you should split your stay in B to ensure against this . At minimum ensure that you have 3 + hours stopover on the way back ( more if the flight B - > A is an expensive one ) . Lastly , it is worth pricing individual flights from A - > B , B - > C and C - > A. Typically , you wont save any money over two round trip tickets , but sometimes it may wind up only costing a little bit more and you get a simpler leg C - > A . This will vary depending on what cities A , B and C are and how they relate to each other . Also if an airline has its hub in A and offers flight to both B and C ( but has no flights between B and C ) they may sell you a return ticket with the legs A - > B and C - > A . This all depends on what cites A , B and C stand for . I did a trip like this recently where A was Reykjavik , B Washington D.C. and C San Francisco . It wound up being simplest to book A - > B and C - > A ( via Seattle actually ) as a return ticket with one airline and then B - > C as a separate one-way ticket with another airline . Doing it this way was actually a bit cheaper ( although only a bit ) but the flight home via Seattle was much shorter then to go back home via D.C.
There are actually a number of different questions there , and while I ca n't tackle all of them I can take a stab at a few ... In terms of getting into London , it depends which bit you want to go to . For South West London , which does contain a few of the Olympic venues , as well as a number of parks , your best bet is a local bus . The roads between Heathrow and London are pretty busy if you 're not allowed to use the Olympic lanes , but for getting to the parks / gardens / etc in SW London that should n't be an issue . If you want to get into the centre of London , you can either head into Paddington by train ( Heathrow Express is quick but expensive , Heathrow Connect is cheaper but slower ) , or take the Piccadilly Line ( Underground/Tube ) to a variety of places . The Piccadilly line is valid with a travel card , while the train needs a supplement ( Heathrow owns the spur of railway line so has it 's own fares ) . The tube takes a little longer , but is more frequent , and may well be better for you . Get a one day travel card ( either paper , or on an Oyster card , pros and cons for a single day ever visitor but that 's a different question ! ) , then hop onto the tube and visit wherever you want . Heathrow being busy wise - the busy bit is likely to be immigration , but the day before the opening ceremony I think that everyone who could work will be , so there hopefully wo n't be too long queues . If you stay airside in transit , you wo n't have to clear immigration , just a security check . However , with 10 hours I do n't think that 's an issue . Coming back , you say you 're on BA , so at Terminal 5 ( T5 ) you need to clear Conformance no later than 35 minutes minutes before your flight . Conformance is the passport/boarding card check before security , which may have a small queue ( depends ) . Most people will be coming into Heathrow that day , not going out , so I would n't expect this to be a big issue , but make sure you 're back from London in plenty of time ! Time the tube going in , then add 50 % more just to be sure , and aim to be back at T5 no less than an hour before and you ought to be fine . With a 10 hours layover , I do n't see why you could n't have a good 6 hours in the centre of London , or 7 in SW London . In terms of what you 'll be able to see , be that at the main stadium , the tail end of the Olympic Torch Relay , or one of the many other venues around London , I 'll leave someone else to answer !
Ada Parry of Woodygupildiyerr , the Cultural Education Coordinator for NTGPE - had a cultural Aboriginal immersion course offered in July of this year . 7 people were invited to come and stay with his family in her cultural home for 5 days . I 'd suggest that would be a great place to start - if the program was successful , Ada may well be running more , and may even be aware of other similar projects happening within Australia . <URL> .
Aer Lingus is working closely with BA ( they used to be part of <URL> and still have <URL> ) so I am pretty sure they should be able to check your luggage through . They do mention it <URL> : Aer Lingus will through-check baggage as a courtesy onto any carrier that have a baggage agreement in place , upon presentation of documentation of the itinerary showing Aer Lingus and partner carrier flights on the same ticket . This includes the following airlines : American Airlines , Air France , Air India , Alaska Airlines , Finnair , British Airways , Air China , China Airlines , Cathay Pacific , China Southern , Emirates , Etihad , Gulf Air , Iberia , Japan Airlines , KLM , Kenya Airways , Kuwait Airways , Malev , Malaysian , Martin Air , Northwest , Austrian Airlines , Pakistan Airlines , Qantas , Qatar Airways , South African Airways , Singapore Airlines , Thai Airlines , United Airlines , Sri Lankan Airlines , US Airways , Virgin Atlantic and JetBlue Airways . I have not been able to find a similar list for BA but I assume that it works in the other direction too . Belgium , Ireland and the UK are all in the EU so customs and security should not be an issue . The most important thing is to book both flights on the same ticket ( e.g. from a travel agent or one of the airlines ) . If the connection shows up on the airlines ' websites or on a travel agent 's system , it means that it does meet the guidelines for minimal transfer time and that they should take care of you in case of problem . If you book each leg separately , you are on your own and they might even refuse to check your luggage through as matter of policy .
my name is Karyne . I am French , 40 years old and started fulltiming 8 years ago in my RV . I have been fulltiming mainly in South Spain , South Portugal and some parts of France , and I 'd like to share my experience and observation with you . First of all , to avoid confusion : we call European recreational vehicles " motorhomes " , and US ones " RVs " . Most Fulltimers in Europe chose to live onboard RVs for the obvious reasons that they are made for proper living onboard in all comfort , when motorhomes are mostly made for Partimers . We call Fulltimers people who live 100 % of the time in their RV or motorhome . Anybody staying part of the year in a house are Partimers . Amongst all RV and motorhome users in Europe , I 'd say that there might be around 5 % Fulltimers . Fulltimers in Europe are probably around 95 % retired people above 60 years old . There are very few mid-age Fulltimers . The Fulltimer community , in particular for mid-age people is not organised at all like in the US where there are special web-sites for temporary jobs or jobs-on-the-go dedicated to RVers , so it is n't easy to find a way to earn a living . The elder community however is better organised . perhaps because they move less than us and tend to go from point A ( North country ) for 4 month in same campsite to point B ( South country ) for the rest of the year . They tend to Jamboree and have plenty of time to spare and meet friends . Many of us mid-age RVers often need to " square-wheel " for a while , parked in a place where there is work ( my case for the moment ) , but we never ever leave our trucks !!! It 's in you or not ... Well hope this might have helped a bit . Plenty of hellos from Southern Spain to all Fulltimers ... xxx Karyne Hi guys , Karyne again . I have red some of the posts , and I think there might be a big confusion for all of you between Partimers and Fulltimers . Please read above for details . However , as far as the Partimer market is concerned , it is surely huge and predominant . I also forgot to mention that the worse the economical crisis gets , the more people are looking towards alternative ways of leaving and moving to other countries . So yes surely campsites are full of square-wheelers all over the place . A monthly campsite 's pitch fee is not cheap , very similar to a small apartment 's rental ( 300 $ to 400 $ ) , and to get best rates we always ask for a special long term stay , usually 3 month , but once you add all extra costs ( electricity , water , taxes etc ) , campsites are cheaper , kids can still play in a safe garden , there is no maintenance at all to do apart from your own rig , etc etc. . Karyne ... AGAIN ... lol I was contacted in 2007 by Jim Twamley , Professor of RVing , in order to write an article for www.rvtravel.com about fulltiming in Europe . You can read it here : <URL> Of course since then loads of things have changed in my life , including husband , lol , I started to travel alone , following friends or my parents who are also fulltimers nowdays , but I 'm still in the same RV ... Concerning fulltimer cost of living , of course it all depends from how many people are travelling , if there are any pets , pulling a trailer or A-frame for a car ... it all adds up . I have personally noticed that campsites stay or wild camping often evens out . Simple , if you wild camp you do n't spend on your pitch but you do on gas ( there are extremely few wild camp places where you can stay longer than a few nights ) . Of course the longer you can stay the more you are saving . The rest stays the same ... food etc. . We take the principle of 800 $ to 1.000 $ a month for a couple , assuming you stay in a campsite at least 3 month at a time to get up to 50 % discount , or keep on moving from wild camp to wild camp . Feel free to contact me by mail on barb.fulltimer@hotmail.com or look for my name Karyne Fouillet on FaceBook . If I can be of any help , it 'll be a pleasure . xxx
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
There are limits that were introduced by the <URL> . Those have been used as well by numerous other airlines , for example <URL> . They generally impose a limit on capacity per passenger and on top of this disallow checking them in , so you must take them into your hand luggage . If a website lists grams of Lithium , use this formula ( <URL> ) : Equivalent Lithium Content ( ELC ) . ELC is a measure by which lithium ion batteries are classified . You can arrive at the number of watt-hours your battery provides if you know how many milliamp hours and volts your battery provides : mAh/1000 x V = wh There is additional information available from the <URL> and the <URL> . Some more information here from Thailand , as of Jan 2015 ( sorry , a bit shaky ) L Essentially , anything above 32 ' 000 mAh is forbidden , below that and above 20 ' 000 mAh is limited to 2 per person , below that there are no limits , but all only in hand luggage .
I found this <URL> giving a few options . Especially the second one seems to fit your criteria : Lipstick 19 , Rue Désirée M : Hôtel de Ville This café is a close second to the Voxx . There 's a nice little vibe and they have great booths if you 're staying for lunch . If not , they 're happy to let you sit at the bar and check your email or do whatever else . Most of the booth tables have power plugs .
No , there are no such districts in either Moscow or St. Petersburg as of 2016 . Prostitution is <URL> in Russia and locations which become too well-known to the public are frequently raided and shut-down . Obviously prostitution still exists , but it 's not centered in any particular street or district . There are many websites online dedicated to reviews of such establishments , so you can try your luck on the Internet . As for safety : unless you speak Russian without an accent , I would n't risk it . While those two cities can be generally safe , putting yourself in contact with the underground sex trade is a risky endeavor for foreigners .
<URL> , in Greece , does not permit women to enter . Wikipedia explains the rationale behind this prohibition as Monks feel that the presence of women alters the social dynamics of the community and therefore slows their path towards spiritual enlightenment . However , you may want to refine your question . For example , most restrooms are divided on gender , although I largely suspect that that is not exactly the type of answer you were looking for .
I use a combination of packing cubes , amenity kits I get for free from airlines , and cheap little zippered bags that get sold as pencil cases , makeup kits etc ( the dollar store has lots of sizes . ) I deliberately get a wide variety of colours ( so they 're easy to tell apart ) and sizes ( because sometimes you need a lot of room and sometimes you do n't . ) I give each bag a name - " bathroom stuff " , " first aid kit " , " eating kit " ( this is spare napkins and disposable cutlery , little extra packets of sugar , instant coffee etc , that you need when you 're eating on the go or in your room and you 're missing something ) , and so on . My packing list actually calls these things out by their names and colours eg " yellow first aid kit " and I have the packing list split up by bag and part of the bag so I might know that the yellow first aid kit is in the silver suitcase , on the far left when the handle is towards you . Clothes are in packing cubes by size - so one small cube is underwear , socks , etc , while a larger cube is shirts . If I do happen to toss an extra pair of socks in when I leave home , the next time the stuff comes out of the suitcase , those socks will be moved to the cube where they belong . This technique worked great on a 5 week trip where we packed and unpacked as frequently as every night and the longest in one place was 4 nights . Nothing got lost and we always knew where things were .
Some airlines do seminars for exactly that ( for example <URL> ) . They explain to you beforehand what sounds you are going to hear , what motions you feel , where they come from and what they mean . Then , they take you on a short flight so you can experience it all with someone giving you live commentary on what is happening . The advantage of those courses is that you feel less like locked into an aluminum can without any idea what is happening but rather experience a flight as an informed person . There are also many other <URL> to combat fear of flying . However , in the end , fear of flying - depending on the level - is a phobia just like any other . It is safer to <URL> for example . The vast majority of spiders are completely harmless , too . From the subject matter , it does not really matter so much if you have arachno-phobia or fear of flying , the psychological process of getting rid of that fear is just the same , but always depending on what works best for your brain . There are <URL> phobias , and once you determine if you just feel uncomfortable in turbulence or if you get a panic attack already when you step into the airplane , you can treat the issue accordingly .
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
As Έρικ Κωνσταντόπουλος , I doubt that Irrawaddy or Central region have bungee-jumping capabilities , but not based on an undated article that mentions " it may just be a matter of time " . In my case I doubt anywhere in Myanmar yet offers bungee jumping on a regular basis . From the same site as that article ( <URL> ) the question is posed : Who is going to be the first to take a leap in Myanmar ? In this case the article is dated , 26 Mar 2013 . On the Myanmar forum <URL> Maibpenrai , showing as from Bangkok/Yangon , posted shortly after the above ( 15 June 2013 - 07:57 ) : It seems to be than Bungee Jumping in Myanmar is not available yet Thereafter it is a matter of assumptions and deductions . The Burmese do not have a cultural heritage such as Vanuatu has for <URL> and the introduction of bungee jumping there can be expected to relate specifically to the expansion of tourism . ( In <URL> tourist visits numbered only 1.3 M. ) For that advertising can be expected nowadays and this OP 's failure to find what he was looking for can be taken to indicate that such does not exist ( yet ) . The signs are however that it will do before very long , so should be worth monitoring the situation .
end question
start question
Are hotels in California fully booked during summer or is it easy to get a hotel room ?
I was a night auditor ( see <URL> ) at two different hotels on the Central Coast of California ( specifically , San Luis Obispo and Pismo Beach ) in the mid-1990s . While some things ( mostly the technology ) has changed , most things are about the same . It would really help to know where you will be traveling , because California is such a diverse and huge place ( larger than many states and even entire countries ! ) . Weeks 30-32 are July 22-August 11 , which is the middle of summer . That 's better for finding a room than than June . From late May through mid-June , you have a lot of formal dances and graduations . If those events hit around the same time in an area , you may find that all the rooms have sold out in the entire region . For example , the graduation weekend for Cal Poly SLO ( a top university ) will result in sold-out rooms from Paso Robles ( nearly the northern border of SLO County ) through Santa Barbara ( middle of the next county south ) , which means you might have to drive well over an hour to find a hotel room if you did not plan ahead . I know this , because I had to literally call every hotel and motel I could think of to try to find a family a room that weekend . I finally did , but it was in Ventura ( 1.5 hours south ) . Night auditors are great resources . Especially on weekends , we keep track of ( or at least generally know ) which hotels have vacancy . If you arrive late , ask the person at the desk for recommendations . You might pay more ( usually the larger , more expensive hotels have vacancies when the smaller ones sell out ) . I also found that some B&amp;B s ( bed and breakfast ) had rooms left when the mainstream hotels were full . I sometimes had guests call me back to thank me for " upgrading " their vacation to a B&amp;B ( which they would not have thought of on their own ) . Bear in mind that you will be in about the warmest ( hottest ) part of the year , especially if you are visiting Southern California or the Central Valley . Temperatures may reach 100F ( 30C ) or higher ( especially in early August ) . The deserts will climb even higher , but drop to chilly temperatures at night . However , along the coast you will likely experience cool , foggy days in the 60-68F range . In the Sierra Nevada mountains , days may be quite warm ( 80F ) , nights cold ( 40F ) , with sudden thunderstorms or even rain . That also is fire season , so you may find areas you want to visit closed or undesirable due fires or heavy smoke in the air . The countryside will probably be brown and dry looking -- quite different from the lush green fields that you would see now ( in mid-March ) . Be sure to pack for a variety of weather conditions . Most hotels have laundry facilities on-site ( coin operated washers and dryers mostly , with upscale establishments offering dry cleaning ) , so you can get by with fewer clothes , but more variety . Layer your clothes . Bring tee-shirts , khaki pants ( like Dockers ) , a polo shirt or blouse , a nylon windbreaker , and , depending on where you travel , shorts , a long-sleeve dressier shirt , and maybe a medium-weight jacket . If you plan to visit high-end restaurants or night clubs , or if you will be visiting the San Francisco Bay Area , you might want to bring a complete set of dress clothing . Shoes can range from sandals/flip-flops , to sneakers or running shoes with good traction ( for the beach or hiking ) , to casual dress ( for evenings and dressier places ) . In the middle of summer , you probably do not HAVE to make reservations except on the weekends or if you plan to stay near the ocean , or a major attraction ( Disneyland , Napa , San Francisco , Sea World , etc. ) , or an airport . If you are visiting a small town , and there are limited hotels , I 'd also recommend a reservation . Weekdays ( Sunday night through Thursday night ) usually have lower occupancy rates , but , again , local events or conditions could quickly sell out all the available rooms . Most hotels will provide you ( if you ask ) a complimentary 6pm ( or 4pm if they are stingy ) hold for no charge , no credit card required . They know that they can almost certainly let a room between 6 and midnight , even if you do not show up . Be careful about giving out your credit card , because they WILL charge you for one night if you do n't show and do n't cancel by the required time . Note that a reservation guaranteed with a credit card is not a 100 % guarantee that you will have a room waiting for you . Many hotels offer their front desk staff incentives to fully occupy the hotel on weekends . That means a person staying in every room , even if there are no-shows ! It comes down to the front desk staff making guesses on how likely someone is going to show up or not . If you are going to be late , let the hotel know ! If it is after 8 PM , call the hotel to let them know ( or remind them ) that you are going to be late . If it is after 10 PM , call them again . If it 's after midnight and a weekend , call again . Seriously . You will be charged , of course , but at least you will have a room whenever you finally drag in . Final
Some things do have a kind of break during the summer ( one that comes to mind are the opera houses but is n't it true of opera houses everywhere ? ) but shops will have normal opening hours . Cafe are definitely open , I do n't think libraries have limited hours , do n't know about co-working spaces . Some offices might be a little less busy but it 's a large city with many tourists so it 's not like it 's closing down in the summer like a ski resort . The crowd might be a bit different but the streets certainly are n't empty . On the other hand , there are a number of summer-only things to enjoy in Berlin : beer gardens , outdoor cinemas , beach bars on the Spree , floating swimming pool , al fresco dining , biking and other activities in the lakes and parks around the city , etc. so it 's definitely worth experiencing in this season as well .
Here are <URL> that you mentioned . Okay , there are different kinds of accommodation in India and not every place is the same . If you are thinking of going to aforementioned hotel , you most likely wo n't be able to get the price down by haggling , only if you have a discount card or something . Besides , for such a hotel , the price seems pretty fair considering you 're traveling there in November which is considered high season . Also , as Paola mentioned , it 's kinda hard to haggle through electronic media ( not that it ca n't be done ) . On the other hand , if you do want to haggle , choose guesthouses . There are budget ones , that you probably wo n't like ( since you chose that hotel ) , mid-range guesthouses and premium , heritage guesthouses ( that have a five-star-hotel price range ) . In budget ones you can easily get a discount if you do n't mind using some tricks mentioned in the answer to the <URL> . I even got price down from 450 rupees to only 300 rupees and I stayed there just for three nights . You usually wo n't be able to get the price down too much if you plan on staying for a short amount of time . But if you have an itinerary that gets you back to the same city , try and explain that to the manager and tell them that you 'll be staying there again if he gets the price down ; be creative . For mid-range guesthouses , you can usually get a bargain if they have a couple of rooms available . If not , you 'll either have to pay the full price or get a discount from 1500 to 1400 rupees per night . You 'd have to be pretty good with haggling to get a better deal . And I believe that I do n't have to explain that there is no haggling in heritage guesthouses . If you had to haggle , you would n't be staying at such a place . The better the accommodation is ( and more expensive ) , the lesser is the chance to haggle . But you can always try and ask about it and see where it takes you . ( One more thing , not really relevant , but once I managed to get a huge ( and I do mean huge ) discount in the <URL> in Jodhpur just by explaining my situation , asking for a deal and by having luck on my side that time . )
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
Because you are an EU national you have the right of free movement inside EU . The national ID card is enough , the portuguese one is called Cartão de Cidadão .
It depends on the hotel . Upscale ones , especially if they 're western brands , will generally have western style ( sit ) toilets . Cheap hotels , especially if they 're local or not a chain , will generally have eastern style ( squat ) toilets . It 's easy to find your preferred style if you know where to look and can identify the clientele the hotel caters to . A large hotel might offer both styles , though I do n't know of any that do . For your specific case , the Sheraton has western style toilets , as you can see from <URL> ( in the center of the mirror , underneath the flowers , partially obscured by the sink 's reflection ) : <URL>
Yup , with 12 hours it 's very feasible and I would definitely go for it . In order : Yes , there is a " <URL> " outside arrivals , rates $ 2-6 / day depending on bag size . However , why not just check in your bags for your next flight immediately , and only then set off to explore ? The easy public transport option is <URL> , $ 9 return including unlimited public transport in Montreal for the day , travel time 45 minutes plus depending on traffic . If you 're really pinching pennies you can take bus 204 to the nearest Metro station and connect ( $ 3/one-way ) , but this is more hassle than it 's worth . Customs/Immigration time varies wildly , but if it takes over an hour you 're having a really bad day . Flights from Mexico may get some extra attention though . If you already have checked in before you left the airport , an hour should suffice . Otherwise you might want to allow two hours . ( Official recommendation is three hours , but this is a bit silly . )
Why not just ask the government ? <URL> What documents , identification , and paperwork does a U.S. citizen need to travel internationally ? If you are traveling in the Western Hemisphere ( Canada , Mexico , Caribbean , Central and South America ) : Air Travel : All U.S. citizens departing from or entering the United States from within the Western Hemisphere by air are required to present a valid passport or NEXUS card ( if utilizing a NEXUS kiosk when departing from a designated Canadian airport ) . Merchant Mariner Document ( for U.S. citizens on official maritime business . ) U.S. Military identification card when traveling on official orders ; Note that children are also required to present their own passport when traveling by air . Land or Sea Travel : U.S. citizens entering the United States by land or sea are required to present a valid WHTI-compliant document , which include : U.S. Passports U.S. Passport Cards Enhanced Driver 's Licenses Trusted Traveler Cards ( Global Entry1 , NEXUS , SENTRI , or FAST ) Military Identification Cards ( for members of the U.S. armed forces on official orders ) U.S. Merchant Mariner Document ( for U.S. citizens on official maritime business ) 1 The Global Entry ( GE ) card is only an ENTRY document and may not be used to enter Canada , Mexico or Adjacent Island . As per Nate 's comment , from the non-government <URL> ( and I 'd take this list with a grain of salt or two . It 's not official and I have seen other lists describing Real ID compliance which differ from this list . However California is mentioned all the time has having an extension until Oct 2016 ) Much of the spirit behind the PASS Card also applies to the Enhanced Driver License ( EDL ) . Convenience , portability , and cost are the big selling points here . If you are a licensed driver , check to see if your state has developed an enhanced driver 's license Ohio program in conjunction with the Department of Homeland Security . Currently , only Washington State , Vermont , New York , and Michigan are fully up and running with EDLs . However , Arizona , Texas , and California are making progress with their programs , too . Thanks to phoog 's comment I realize that I was conflating two different types of licenses : Enhanced and Read ID compliant . From the government <URL> The Enhanced Driver 's License ( EDL ) is a driver 's license that is issued to U.S. Citizens or Canadian citizens in the U.S. State or Province in which you reside . This driver 's license is a Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative ( WHTI ) compliant document for travels by land or sea only . It denotes both identity and citizenship and is a Radio Frequency Identity card ( RFID ) . From that other great source of information <URL> A Real ID-compliant form of identification requires the following pieces of data : Full legal name Signature Date of birth Gender Unique identifying number Principal residence address Front-facing photograph of the applicant Said cards must also feature specific security features intended to prevent tampering , counterfeiting , or duplication of the document for fraudulent purposes . These cards must also present data in a common , machine-readable format ( bar codes , smart card technology , etc. ) . Although the use of wireless RFID chips was offered for consideration in the proposed rulemaking process , it was not included in the latest rulemaking process . DHS could consider additional technological requirements to be incorporated into the licenses after consulting with the states . In addition , DHS has required the use of RFID chips in its Enhanced Driver 's License program , which the Department is proposing as an alternative to REAL ID . My take on this is that the two classes of license ( Enhanced and REAL ID ) are very close in the features that they require and that the key difference seems to be the RFID component that is in an Enhanced license . Without knowing anything my gut feeling is that the features of the Enhanced license are a superset of those in the REAL ID compliant licenses .
Usually May is a peak season because of the summer in the Philippines . Many people go to Boracay or Bagiuo . Bagiuo is the best place to go because of the cool area . It is colder than most places in the Philippines . Should you book a room in advance ? Well it depends what you are planning to do and where . Booking in advance gives you usually a better price than being in front of the hotel counter . Especially hotel websites give an instant 10 % discount if you in advance . This is their strategy to get hotel rooms booked . However , the busiest places are the usually the high priced hotels and well located . If you roam around in to the outskirt of the city or keep on searching for pensions you can get a very decent deal . They are usually not well known or they are hardly recognized as a hotel or pension . These places usually have rooms vacant and the price is low . Do not expect too much from these hotels , the standards are usually lower . If you truly ca n`t find anything try Sogo Hotel or Mircotel hotel . These hotels are usually cheap but they have a very specific clientel . Not many people want to be seen in this hotel but if you need a place this would be a last option . For weather details . In June the season is switching from Summer to Rain season . Typhoons are usually common in this season . So be prepared for much rain .
Random paper pieces security system : When I feel the need ( varies ) I place all material that I wish not to be accessed either in a cupboard or a pile in a corner , place a blanket or similar over it all , tuck in the edges , then tear a sheet of paper in random pieces and scatter them over the heap and take a photo . I frame the photo in such a way that I can replicate it subsequently . On return to my room I take another photo and compare the two . Care needs to be taken that drafts from air conditioning , windows or opening a door will not disturb the paper . The odds of anyone being able to disturb and replace all the paper pieces in their original position is essentially zero except if they take a photo and then carefully remove pieces systematically and restore them using the photo . ie a professional ' spy ' or dedicated thief may be able to do it but the odds are minimal . Updated : I just came across this example in my photos . Not as orderly as sometimes - and a confident person could risk feeling with their hand at bottom right - but it would be a risk and if they disturbed it there is no undoing it . And even the wrinkles in the blanket cover are part of the image available for checking . I have used the same method once where I had reason to doubt the security of a locker . In that case I meandered a long piece of twine over the top of goods in the locker . Twine in locker . Purpose obvious enough to the discerning . Very quick and basic but , without a camera no way to put it back accurately enough . Even taking a photo would make replacement extremely challenging . Note that camera position and framing is important for ease of comparison . In no case has my paper or twine ever appeared to have been disturbed . Pushed paper : I sometimes use a version of the hair tell-tale . I place something either on the floor or against a door in such a way that it must be moved when the door is opened . The super observant intruder could look for such things but it 's unlikely . Motion triggered camera : I have not ( yet ) tried this but it is among the more useful methods . Some cameras offer the ability to trigger on motion and to take video and/or stills according to a program . While the cost of a new camera that does this may be high , there is a low cost and highly effective way to do it . The free Canon SDK software allows many Canon A series cameras to have this facility . Triggering can be on motion in a selected area of the image . Suitable used cameras can be obtained at low cost ( from about $ 10 up in NZ ) and programmed for this and many other purposes . ( I used one to do 10 second time lapse journey footage and sunset footage in Australia with great success . ) For longer periods you may need an external battery or a mains power supply . ( A small cheap sealed lead acid 6V battery would work in many cases . Bonus : If the camera vanishes you know that there has been an intruder . Related : Sometimes I really really do not want cleaning staff to access my room or I want them to only access the bathroom . Usually this is because I have an immense mess in the room with papers and/or equipment arranged to suit me and do not want them disturbed or damaged . In such cases I have on occasion strung a string across the room at the " no intrusion " boundary and hung one or several relevant signs on it . These may not say any more than the sign on the door says but vividly convey how serious I am . It seems to work . It 's useful to be able to get the bathroom cleaned without the rest of the room being touched . On occasions I have had ' helpful ' cleaners take material that was NOT in a bin or similar and that was NOT rubbish . If there is a risk of this and it matter suitable care needs to be taken .
It 's only larger stores that offer this , but you can always ask . I found a <URL> where someone claimed the Apple stores do offer tax free purchases .
My parents just visited Niagara Falls last week ( 12 , 13 and 14 September ) from New York , they too visited only the US side . And , one weekend before my parents , my colleague visited their with his family ( after his reviews I planned tour for my parents ) . So , as told by all of them and after seeing the pictures they have taken , I can assure you that the view at this time is same as seen over google pictures . Level of water and crowd visiting Niagara falls is good enough to make this tour a cherish-able tour . Although my parents has taken 3 days and 2 nights tour ( including Washington DC , Philadelphia , Watkins Glen Tour ) but they were very much impressed and happy with the Niagara Falls place . If you visit the same by anytime end of October it will be good time for visiting that place .
I worked in a variety of hotels and hostels when I was a young backpacker and student . The simple answer is that it comes down to availability of rooms ( or beds if you 're staying in a dormitory ) . Most hotels will post a check-in time of around noon to give them time to get at least some some rooms ready for the earlier arrivals , but even that should never be considered as a guarantee of getting into a room . A typical hotel has just enough housekeeping staff to turn over all rooms in a day . Typically the rooms which are checking out ( a full turnaround ) are done first , followed by rooms which are staying ( more or less just a tidy up ) . So if everyone turned up to check in at exactly 12 noon , then most of you would be waiting . There is nothing " wrong " with arriving early , that is before the stated check in time , it 's just that the chance of a room of the type you booked being ready diminishes the earlier in the day you arrive . The worst that will happen is that they will usually offer to store your luggage for you while go you about your business . Reception will usually give you some indication of when your room will be ready . If you really need your room ( e.g. to shower and change ) , just explain your need and they may be willing to swap you to a room which will be ready sooner , or possibly even offer you the use of a room which is vacant but not yet made up specifically for the purpose of using the bathroom . It never hurts to ask politely and see what they can do for you .
If you rent an Automatic , you 'll be given an Automatic . If you do n't rent an Automatic , you will most likely be given a manual . In countries like Ireland ( presuming you mean Killarney , Ireland ? ) , the majority of rental cars will be manual , and renting an automatic will almost certainly be more expensive . On a rental I had in the UK a few weeks ago , the prices for an automatic ranged from 2 times to 5 times the price of a manual , and at least one company was " sold out " of all automatics whilst still renting manuals . As with any rental cars , there 's always the possibility that they will not have what you 've booked when you arrive . This is normally caused by people not returning vehicles on time , leaving the location short of a specific type of car . This is no difference regardless of whether you book an auto or a manual , with the exception that as companies in the UK normally have less autos available there is potentially a greater chance of this happening when you book an auto . If this does happen , you should ask the company to make you a booking at a different rental company and cover the additional costs ( if any ) .
Hotels usually have a full legally regulated rate ( the one posted on the inside of the door inside the room ) , a walk in rate ( what they charge if you just show up ) and an advance booking rate . The full rate that is posted is usually equal to the walk in rate during peak season and , with the exception of a holiday surcharge ( NYE , Xmas , etc ) , is the highest amount they can legally charge for that room . The walk in rate varies depending on the season , during shoulder season in Hawai'i it could be quite a bit lower than during peak summer season . While this rate is usually a set amount , most front desks have some leeway to discount that rate if the hotel has low occupancy . The discounted rates offered by the hotel for advance bookings through its own website vs the rates offered through OTAs , like Agoda or Expedia , etc are becoming more equal as time goes by . The primary advantage of OTAs is being able to look at multiple options on one page AND since OTAs have blocks of rooms they committed to , they will offer the same discounted rate right up to check in day . Hawai'i is busy but not totally sold out , with the exception of the peak seasons , you can find rooms available in most areas upon arrival . And even during peak summer and the new year period , there will be some room to be had somewhere . Personally I would book my first stay before leaving for the islands , just for the ease of arriving and relaxing instead of hunting down rooms . Then as you piece together your next location , get online with the OTAs booking.com , hotels.com , agoda.com etc and see what they have available . If rooms are available you can book them right up until you arrive at the hotel . You can also use the price the OTAs quote as bargaining material if you want to walk in and book direct with the hotel . And if you spot a really cool hotel while wandering around but the front desk tells you they have no rooms , check with the OTAs as they may have space in their blocks still , which the front desk ca n't access to sell direct .
Earthquakes are notoriously hard to predict , for the US they are working on this an <URL> which <URL> the recent earthquake . Giving about ten seconds warning . Which I think may be less than you were looking for ... In general if you 're in an earthquake zone there 's always a ( remote ) chance of a sudden quake . There are minor earthquakes all the time , a sequence of minor earthquakes does not make the ' big one ' more likely . Arguably , smaller quakes relieve pressure and could make big quakes less common , but they could also move things in such a way that it does cause a bigger quake . People have been studying this for years and the best we 've got is ten seconds warning ... There are a few things you can do -- first find out if you 're in an earthquake zone , check the local government for wherever you are or here 's a <URL> of them . Second , know <URL> . Finally know that earthquakes are pretty scary and can be dangerous depending what you 're doing ( i.e. driving over a bridge ) but places that are in earthquake zones are designed to handle even relatively big quakes . Quakes on the scale of the Japanese one a few years ago are incredibly rare and honestly not really worth worrying about ( if it happens , it happens ) . You can track recent earthquakes on <URL> and , yes , there are apps for that -- here 's the <URL> . One thing you can watch for is earthquake caused tsunamis , ( or any tsunamis ) . These are ( mostly ) predictable , often more dangerous than the earthquake , and getting a warning will give you time to take action . Here 's the <URL> and there are apps for that as well but I 've no experience of them so I do n't want to recommend one at random . There is a page at <URL> that looks like it covers a lot of the above . I will say once again , earthquakes and other geological events are very hard to predict . Warnings often err on the side of caution , while some events still take everyone completely by surprise . It 's one of those things you should know how to handle if it happens , and then try and not worry about it to much . I say this as someone that lives less than half a kilometer away from a major fault-line . Quick Edit : The question was changed after I answered to be California specific , I 'm not going to trim the answer just to that since I think it 's generic enough to be applicable . The links I gave are still useful but for specific stuff consider the <URL> and the Southern California Earthquake Center ( <URL> ) . Edit 2 ( three months later ) : I just wanted to edit this to add a link to a upcoming tool called <URL> . It looks to have grown out of ShakeAlert which is linked in the other answer and offers personal and industrial early earthquake warning solutions ( it 's not clear from the site how much warning they can give ) .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
Technically , you can . Practically , 4 hours is not that much time . If you 're admitted to the US on arrival , you go out through the immigration and customs , and its up to you whether to turn left ( connections ) or right ( exit ) , no-one forces you to go either way . I might have confused left and right , have n't been in LAX international arrivals for a while now . You 'll have to go through the security again if you exit ( if I remember correctly - you 'll have to go through the security either way , but I may be wrong on this ) . To answer your second question : the closest Apple Store is in <URL> , 10 minutes from LAX by cab . The <URL> , both along Sepulveda Blvd South , on your left when driving from the airport . If you 're into buying electronics , then right in between there 's <URL> . You can go to the mall , and walk your way back to Best Buy ( 10 minutes walk + stop at Fry 's , beware of the time though , people tend to spend hours at Fry 's :-) ) , and get a cab back ( call the cab ahead of time though ) .
In Borovets you 'll find it very easy to rent skis or other equipment you might need . Most if not all of the places that rent skis speak multiple languages and will be clearly marked around the resort . In case you find difficulties , just ask anyone around in English and they should be able to help you . Expect around 20 BGN/day for ski + boot + poles rental .
I was in Taiwan in August . Very few problems in Taipei ; there 's usually someone around who can speak some English , and failing that , hand signals and waving and pointing goes a long way . In addition , many of the signs are in English as well . Even in the markets , you could point , or some friendly person would take you where you wanted to go . Probably in the smaller towns it 'd be more difficult , but from my experiences in small towns in Russia / the stans / South America , it 's amazing how much you can communicate without language . If you really wanted , you could take some translation cards with common phrases printed in both languages , and show those to people . Also try to learn a few words , even basic ones like " where is " and " thank you " go a long way .
end question
start question
Is it permitted to ask questions of female sex workers in Thailand to be familiar with their real life as a tourist ?
I 've been on Thailand in January/13 for about 2 weeks passing through Bangkok , Koh Samui , Krabi , Phi Phi , Kanchanaburi , etc. . In Bangkok was where I saw more freedom of natives in talking about sex with tourists . In everywhere was someone offering to me to go to any of theirs sexland places ( In Bangkok we can see an entire district with expertise in Sex Tourism including some bizarre things like Ping Pong show , etc ) . So , this subject is broadly talked in Thailand and I think this will not be a problem to you . I only think you will need to pay for it . There is a chance of them to charge you for an " Interview " about their job . A way to get this interview is to visit a sex house and search for one sex worker who looks sympathetic and allows you to interview her . I 'm sure her will not mind in spend her time talking with you . I hope this can be useful to you .
I think that your problem here would be that you ca n't provide proof of income ( to show you 'd be able to support yourself for a year ) without tipping them off that you would be working there but not paying income tax ( since your company is not located in Laos and therefore your income taxes would go back to France rather than stay in Laos ) . Therefore , it seems like your best bet to do this legally would be to ask your employer to " transfer " you to a local Laos address so that you will be considered as " working in Laos " . Then you can also get the 1-year business visa that your girlfriend got . If that is not possible , then the only option you have is to leave the country every month and try to get a new visa by coming back . As you said , this will work for at least the first three months . After that , it may still be possible ( some border patrol wo n't care as long as you pay the fee ) , but it is also possible they will say " sorry , you used up all your renewals " - so if you go this route , you need to have a Plan B to either go back to France or stay in a neighboring country or something . If you have been dating your girlfriend for a long time ( more than 1-2 years ) AND you already live together , then you may be able to get a year long visa by contacting the embassy , explaining that you have this relation and already live together , and see what they can do for it . I have read elsewhere that some people can get a 1-year visa to stay with their spouse , so it may be possible to get one for a long-term relationship as well . You would probably need to call someone and talk to them about it though . Whatever you do , do n't try to just stay in Laos with an expired visa - it 's not worth the risk IMO .
All the quotes are from my LonelyPlanet : Bulgaria : Camping in the wild ( ie outside a camping ground ) is technically prohibited but normally accepted if you 're discreet and , most impor tantly , do not build wood fires ( which attract attention and damage the environment ) . Greece : Free ( wild ) camping is illegal , but the law is not always strictly enforced and some areas are more tolerant and renowned for it , espe cially along the south coast . It is wise to ask around . For Macedonia and Albania I could only find a general Western Balkans quote : Camping in the wild is usually illegal ; ask locals about the situation before you pitch your tent on a beach or in an open field .
It depends on which trains you 're using , as they differ from service to service . A <URL> covers much of this . I 'll try and summarise : Sun and Ski Thalys - only guide dogs Thalys - small and guide dogs = free in a basket . Bigger dogs = buy a ticket . TGV - yes , but must buy a ticket and be in a box or muzzled and on a leash . Eurostar - only guide dogs . ICE - yes , with exceptions , tickets to be purchased . Domestic Netherlands trains - yes , <URL> apply : A small pet that fits into a bag or basket or can be kept on your lap may free on the train . For leashed pets you must purchase a Day Pass dog . Regardless of your destination this ticket costs $ 3 . Note that each rail carrier uses other terms and rules . If you have an OV-year subscription , you may take one dog free .
There are no international rules that forbid that . There are numerous stories on the Internet about people whose driver 's licenses were conficsated in EU countries . Here is an <URL> . It says : If you break French driving laws you can also have your UK driving licence confiscated by French Police . Similarly , in many countries , if a person is arrested , he or she might be asked to surrender his or her passport to get bail . Summary : I have no idea if it is legal for police to hold your driver 's license in Mexico . But it does n't violate any international laws .
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
My boyfriend and I ( female ) were able to rent a private room at the Blue Baths in September ' 10 . Okay , here 's the Long Answer : At any one of the baths , it is possible to rent a private room , exclusive of massage and kisa ( skin scrub ) . From my personal experience , The Royal Baths have the single best/nicest room ( gorgeous blue paneled " dressing room " with sofas plus separate bathroom ) , but it costs a full 60 lari and is suitable for a much larger party than just 2 . Their " next tier down " ( 40-50 lari rooms ) are n't comparable to similarly priced rooms in other baths . I imagine 3-4 people could fit in one of these . The Blue Baths - 50 lari gets a gorgeous large room ( again with a separate dressing room/lounge area ) ; 25 lari ( what I paid with the boyfriend ) gets a tiny , dingy , slightly dirty-seeming room ( with ostensible " dressing area " but no sofas , etc ) so it 's worth paying more . The Baths Halfway Up Grishashvili St ( sorry , not sure of the name . Right where the Bohemia sign is ) offer a perfectly pleasant , if not visually stunning , room for 25 lari : this is possibly the best value-for-money bath in Tbilisi . Massages and skin scrubs cost extra ; the going rate seems to be 10 lari per service per person ( in all baths ) . The attendant will knock and enter - be aware that there is no expectation of modesty on either side : often the attendant will be wearing nothing but a bikini bottom regardless of gender ( note that this is not sexualized ; in my case , the woman was an older , 60-something professional who just did n't want to get her kit wet . However , it does seem that prostitutes do use the baths as a front ( with the tacit acceptance if not cooperation of the workers ) , so mixed groups and/or groups of men seeking massages should be extra clear that this is NOT what is going on . Tea can generally be brought to the rooms by attendants for 5-10 lari .
Georgia 's Reforms Associates <URL> called FactCheck <URL> : Conclusion Our research has established that in Georgia certain professions have nationality restrictions due to national and public interests . In order to bring in a verdict , we must also take international experience into consideration . Both strict and lenient , there are certain restrictions and limitations in Europe , the US and CIS countries for granting a work permit to foreign citizens . There are , however , no such limitations in Georgia and any alien can start working in Georgia without any permission ( only a temporary residence permit is necessary after the visa has expired ) . Compared to the current situation , the initiated draft bill regulates the immigration policy of the country . Based upon the abovementioned , we conclude that the statement of Paata Kvizhinadze : " Any foreign citizen could work in our country without any restrictions or quotas . This practically never happens in Europe , the US or CIS countries , " is TRUE . Since the old law allowing for 360 days visas has been <URL> , it is highly likely that there are no employment restrictions for citizens of visa-on-arrival countries . The <URL> also fails to list any restrictions on people arriving to Georgia on tourist visas .
Risk of contracting malaria is higher in nearby countries than in Thailand . Look at this map from <URL> : Risky areas are clearly regions bordering neighbouring countries . <URL> , malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water . When you 're in Bangkok next to Chao Phraya river or on beach somewhere else , these conditions are unlikely to be satisfied . What you need to check though is when are you travelling to Thailand . There has been <URL> and you need to check whether you 're travelling to an affected area . Flooded areas will have conditions conducive for spread of the kind of mosquito that transmits malaria . If you 're really concerned , you can always you can take antimalarials with you as well as <URL> .
The scheme for Iranians to visit Georgia visa-free was <URL> . Unless they qualify for <URL> , Iranian citizens now need a visa ( which can be <URL> ) . This arose from two issues : First , the USA suggesting to Georgia that they should not let Iranians come into the country so easily ; and second , Georgia 's long-term desire to eventually become an EU member state . <URL> : 30 days visa-free entry for those born in Georgia but who are not citizens ; 90 in 180 days for those holding a valid visa or residence permit for a Schengen member state , or for Australia , Bahrain , Bermuda , British Virgin Islands , Canada , Cayman Islands , Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , Israel , Japan , Kuwait , New Zealand , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Turks and Caicos Islands , USA , or United Arab Emirates . Given the contents of this list , it 's quite possible that your Iranian friend already has such a visa .
There are some expeditions that you can join as a single person . Most of these take place during November , December , January and February ( <URL> ) . Just start this December . As you can see , it is a relatively short tour because you fly to 89 ° longitude . But nevertheless , it takes approximately three weeks .
I bought a <URL> in December 2012 in a Kaufland supermarket in Berlin . <URL> was via the congstar web site , and done in some minutes . There are several thirty day data packages available , most notably : 1GB at 12.90 EUR and 3GB at 19.90 EUR . congstar is a discount daughter company of Deutsche Telekom ( T-Mobile ) , and network coverage of Deutsche Telekom is perhaps the best in Germany . Concerning your question : If you subscribe to a data package , it will only be extended if there is sufficient credit on your card . There is no deactivation fee . Quote from the section for the 1GB data package , Surf Flat Option 1000 , in the <URL> ( German ) : Die Buchung und die Wirksamkeit der Option setzt voraus , dass der Kunde zum jeweiligen Abbuchungszeitpunkt des monatlichen Optionspreises über ein ausreichendes Guthaben auf seinem Guthabenkonto verfügt . Der Abrechnungszeitraum der Option beträgt 30 Tage . Die Option verlängert sich automatisch jeweils um 30 Tage , wenn sie nicht mit einer Frist von einer Woche zum Ende eines 30-Tage-Zyklus gekündigt wird . Weist das Guthabenkonto zum Abbuchungszeitpunkt kein ausreichendes Guthaben auf und kann der Optionspreis nicht abgebucht werden , gelten die Konditionen der Option bis zu einer erfolgreichen Abbuchung nicht mehr und die Datennutzung wird nutzungsabhängig nach dieser Preisliste abgerechnet . Soweit die Option nicht gekündigt wurde , führt congstar maximal bis zu einer Dauer von 180 Tagen regelmäßig einen Abbuchungsversuch durch . Wenn dieser erfolgreich ist , erhält der Kunde eine SMS-Information und die genannten Verbindungen werden wieder zu den Konditionen der Option abgerechnet . Andernfalls wird die Option gelöscht . As Google Translate struggles with this text , a rough translation done by me ( disclaimer : IANAL - I am not a lawyer ) : The booking and validity of the option ( i.e. data package ) requires that , at times of billing of the monthly option price , the customer has sufficient credit on his prepaid account . Billing period for the package is 30 days . The option automatically extends for 30 days , unless it was cancelled at least one week before the end of the 30 day cycle . If , at the time of billing , the prepaid account does not have sufficient credit and the option price can not be withdrawn , then the option will not be valid anymore and data usage will be billed according to usage as described in this price list . If the option has n't been cancelled , then congstar will repeatedly attempt to withdraw from your prepaid account up to a maximum of 180 days . Once an attempt has been successful , the customer gets an SMS information and data connections will again be billed according to the option . Otherwise , the option will be deleted . Just to clarify : Guthabenkonto refers to the virtual account where the money is stored that you charged your card with . Above , I translated it as prepaid account . Guthabenkonto does not refer to your bank account , which you do n't have to specify , unless you want automatic recharging for convenience .
From the website of La Cantine in Paris , I found <URL> in France . There happen to be at least 2 having a website in Lille . Both have an open space and coffee room with at least one meeting room . <URL> has <URL> , 2 euros per hour up to 10 euros per day . <URL> only targets regular coming people apparently , <URL> , but they offer a one-day trial if you email them . Otherwise , you still have the <URL> .
Things to consider : data roaming is very expensive you 're charged for incoming calls in roaming you 're charged local cost + roaming surcharge for outgoing If you have a sim-free second phone , your best option is to buy local sim . Pay-as-you-go ( called pre-paid here ) are very popular and inexpensive in Poland . You can get them as low as 5PLN ( $ 1.60 CAD ) . You can get 1GB data package for 25PLN ( $ 8.10 CAD ) . Comparison of current offers : <URL> Columns are different offers from various operators . Row groups : first 4 - price per minute to different networks ( " bezpłatnie " = free ) . SMS in the same network , different network , MMS , data w/o data package validity of the credit in days ( outgoing/incoming , depending on the credit you bought , eg . with 5zł " Play na kartę " starter you can make calls for 5 days and receive calls for 65 days before you have to recharge more credit , " rok " = " a year " ) extra packages ( most likely not interesting for you , except data packages ) .
European Transport Safety Council Directives Pre May 2015 Up until recently , individual European countries would set-up bilateral agreements regarding traffic regulation enforcement . This is the case for example for UK and Ireland ; Switzerland and Italy ; to name a few . Talks of unifying or regulating cross-border traffic infringements date way back . In 2011 an EU directive ( n. 2011/82/EU ) was approved and came into force in 2013 , allowing drivers to be prosecuted cross-border . T <URL> , and thus the EU began studying a new directive . The Current State of Affairs ( post May 2015 ) According to <URL> , the new European cross-border enforcement regulations ( EU directive 2015/413 ) were approved in March 2015 , and are to be transposed into national rules by all member countries ( with the exception of UK , Ireland and Denmark ) by the 6th of May 2015 . This directive will allow countries to follow-up traffic infringements from foreign drivers , by accessing national vehicle registration details without the need for bilateral agreements . <URL> describes eight major driving offences which can now be prosecuted cross-border : Speeding ; Not using a seatbelt ; Not stopping at a red traffic light or other mandatory stop signal ; Drink driving ; Driving under the influence of drugs ; Not wearing a safety helmet ( for motorcyclists ) ; Using a forbidden lane ( such as the forbidden use of an emergency lane , a lane reserved for public transport , or a lane closed down for road works ) ; Illegally using a mobile phone , or any other communications device , while driving . The functioning of the system is also described in the linked FAQ page . In short it leverages <URL> , and a new cooperation system by which countries elect dedicated contact points responsible for handling such cross-border enforcement requests by other countries . It follows that a mechanism for prosecuting road traffic infringements cross-border within the EU exists , and is gradually being enforced . This is not to say that all fines for offences committed abroad will be sent to your home , since the directive is left vague enough to allow countries some wiggle room . In particular , individual countries can choose whether or not to begin the cross-border prosecution procedure on a case-by-case basis - the mechanism is not launched automatically by all countries . How About Point Systems ? The afore-mentioned directive does not mention point systems . To my knowledge <URL> , in terms of the number of points on a clean licence , the addition or subtraction of points , and the points per infringement . It would therefore seem that at the time of writing the lack of a common European driving licence point system determines a lack of control and prosecution mechanisms for point deduction/addition following traffic infringements . And Country-Specific Driving Bans ? Being enforced in the country where the offence was committed ( if applicable ) it is safe to assume that driving bans will not depend on cross-border regulations . As <URL> if committing a driving offence will cause you to be banned from driving in a country , then the ban will be effective as soon as the offence is processed by that country . You might or might not receive notification of this ( this is not specified in the afore-mentioned EU directive ) but you should nevertheless make sure you are aware of any bans you might have . You wo n't like it should your driving licence come up as banned in that country during a random police check .
Cypress Mountain has announced that it is opening November 14 , 2012 , though it is only at higher elevations with artificial snow , and not suitable for beginners . ( In 2011 , opening day was <URL> . ) Grouse Mountain , reachable by TransLink bus 232 or 236 , opens <URL> . Whistler , reachable by private coach , opens [ November 17 , 2012 ] .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
Making calls or texting on a handheld phone while driving is illegal and unsafe basically everywhere , and you 're entirely within your rights to tell them to stop and , if they do n't , complain to the taxi authorities or even the police . If they 're using a hands-free device though , and vast majority of cabbies are , you 're likely out of luck . This is ( usually ) legal , and dealing with bookings is a critical part of their livelihood : you 're already in the cab , they 're trying to find their next fare Of course , you can always request they stop , and ask to be dropped off right then and there if they do n't . But if you 're in enough of a hurry that you 're in a taxi in the first place , this may not be a realistic alternative .
end question
start question
Will I pay additional guest fees if I have an overnight guest in Massachusetts ?
Charging fees per guest is very unusual for the US hotels . Most charge per room , and as long as the room legal max occupancy is n't exceed , they do n't care how many people are there . Typical max occupancy is two adults ( sometime two adults and two children ) , and when you book your hotel , the booking site typically tells you this . You can test it yourself when you book your hotel by first trying to book it as " 1 adult 1 room " , and then as " 2 adults 1 room " . If you can book the same room , you 're not exceeding max occupancy , and if the price does n't increase , there are no per-guest fees . Also many US hotels , especially in the lower segment ( Motel 6 , Super 8 etc ) have open planning , meaning their doors open into the courtyard which is also a parking lot , meaning the hotel staff does n't even see you entering your room . To summarize , the easiest way would be for you to : Book a room for two adults ; Tell the hotel during check-in that your girlfriend will join you later : If you only hear back ' huh-huh ' ( I 'd say in US hotel this is 95 % probability ) , you can assume they do n't care . If they say she needs to stop by the front desk and show her ID , ask what if she arrives at 4:30 am ? If they still insist , then they do care , and in this case it is worth stopping by and showing her ID . If they say she can stop next morning , where you 'd be already leaving , then they do n't really care .
You can apply to replace a lost I-94 by filing <URL> . It 's very expensive though . It might be worth checking the <URL> in case they have it there , in which case you can print it out ; though it 's unlikely in your case . How are you leaving the U.S. ? According to <URL> , if you leave by air , you do n't have to turn in an I-94 . But if you leave by land , then you need to turn in an I-94 , so you might need to get a replacement . Or maybe if you do n't turn it in you can try to resolve it out with CBP the next time you try to enter , with proof that you entered Canada or Mexico .
Tattoos or <URL> as they are called in Japanese were criminalized in the beginning of the Meiji period ( some time after 1868 ) as a way to make a good impression on the west . ( A bit ironic in this case ... ) It was legalized again after the war in 1948 but still retains its image of criminality . For many years , traditional Japanese tattoos were associated with the yakuza , Japan 's notorious mafia , and many businesses in Japan ( such as public baths , fitness centers and hot springs ) still ban customers with tattoos . ( from wikipedias <URL> article )
I have no experience with this particular scenario and ca n't tell you exactly how this particular Spanish consulate will treat your application but in theory it should not be an issue . As far as the regulations are concerned , you should have a legitimate purpose and the financial means to pay for your accommodation , nothing more . There is absolutely no obligation to have each and every night accounted for and technically , you do n't even need any specific booking or reservation , although it can be useful to support your application . Your other question suggests you applied for a visa for a longer , more complex trip . If you do get a multiple-entry or two-entry visas from October 1st to the end of your trip to Greece , it would also allow you to enter on the 11th so the whole issue is moot ( there is no such thing as a visa valid for one entry on the 1st and one entry on the 12th , it 's either a single-entry visa or two entries at any time during the period of validity ) . Since you are , as far as I can tell , a UK resident with a good profile , my guess is that you will get a multiple-entry with enough flexibility not to worry about this . But even if you do n't , you would still have the option of shortening the trip at the other end ( returning to the UK one day earlier to avoid going over the maximum stay limit ) .
So , here 's what happened . My research organisation said I should apply for a <URL> . I was totally taken aback and surprised . In fact , they mentioned that past fellows have applied for a <URL> and that 'd be the best . However , the student visa is an arduous process with elaborate mark sheet checking procedures . In the meanwhile , I got a reply from the German Embassy that I can apply for a <URL> visa . This seems much better and I will proceed my application with this . In addition , I am also <URL> ( P1 , point b ) as I am a foreign national receiving a scholarship from public funds to stay/work in Germany . However , the German embassy confirmed that such a waiver can only be decided after the visa officer goes through my documents . I spoke about this to my research organisation and they said that I should do as the embassy suggested or in other words apply for a guest scientist visa . Moral of the story - Do n't blindly apply for a visa , read through rules/regulations and options . It could save you time as well as money .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
The important thing to do , is to know what flag your card belongs . What I realized in my trips was the ATM machines do n't cares about the bank or country of your card . The flag is important . If the flag belongs to Visa or Mastercard , being assured that even most of ATM Machines will accept this . This is important also to discover if the bank that has emitted your card has agreement with other banks around the world . This implies on : if you ca n't withdraw your money on any in ATM Machine , you can do it on a bank that has agreement with yours . But do n't carry all your money in your card . For you own safe , it 's important to carry some amount in cash . That prevent you both in case of lost of your card and in case of you ca n't withdraw your money in an ATM machine . I hope this can help you .
There is no international authority that sets any such limit , nor one which would have the ability to enforce it . But for most people , it is not practical to maintain too many multiple nationalities . Most countries frown upon multiple citizenships , and place some restrictions on it , at least on paper . Some countries , like Austria , only allow dual citizenship <URL> , others , like Japan , do not recognize the concept at all , and will <URL> or relinquish your Japanese citizenship if they find out that you have others . In other cases , retaining a nationality for a country where you do not reside may not be worth the trouble . The United States , for example , attempts to collect tax on worldwide income , whereas most countries only tax income earned within that country . Enforcement of this policy has become far stricter in recent years , and some U.S. expatriates are choosing to <URL> rather than have to file tax returns to a country where they may not have resided for decades .
If you rented the car with a credit card , you will have signed something that says they can charge these things to your credit card and it 's not disputable . The only speed-camera ticket I ever got was in a rental car ( and they tacked on a handling fee to boot . ) It took weeks to come through , but it came as a charge on my credit card . If you had driven your own car on the 407 and then not paid the toll , there would be consequences for the car . ( At one point , you could n't renew your license plates if you had outstanding tolls against that plate . ) Presumably the car people have paid the toll so that their car can still function . You now owe them the money . I am completely sure you 've signed something that holds you liable for these charges . Since you 're describing an invoice , you must have rented the car with cash or cheque . Whether to pay or not now is no different than if you had ordered something and then not paid for it once it was delivered . The country as a whole is not in the habit of enforcing these sorts of debts , so you probably wo n't be nabbed at the border , but you can be certain that the rental company will keep track of you . If they hand the debt to a collection company , it 's possible the collector would find it worthwhile to harass you from a distance . They can be pretty nasty . To me it 's simple . You signed that you would pay such things . Pay it . If it 's a lot of money and you ca n't afford it right now , contact them and tell them so , and arrange to pay it over time . But pay it . And next time stay off the toll highways ( they 're clearly signed ) if it 's not your intention to pay the toll .
but there are a lot of blogs online about that stuff and it seems pointless to add another . There are never enough blogs on any topic . See <URL> . What things to consider especially for travel blogs ? the backend ( where you create your content and config your blog ) should be accessible from mobile devices ; if it 's no fun / not easy , you 'll probably do n't post so much if a problem occurs , you should be able to handle/fix it on tour ( or contact someone who can do it for you ) backups should be done automatically ( e.g. send a database dump daily to a separate mail account ) if you use internet cafés and/or untrusted networks , your password could be stolen ; do n't use an admin account to post/edit content ; but have admin login available for emergencies ( e.g. to delete compromised user accounts ) good <URL> : functionality to add new posts by email Self-hosting vs. 3rd party service Self-hosting advantages you get exactly what you want it 's your content , you have full control , you can backup it ( some services allow this , too , but not all ) no policies , no censorship , no rules , no service terms you can fix any problems yourself ( and do n't have to wait for the provider to do it ) you can create/use accounts with lesser privileges ( security ) disadvantages costs more time costs money ( hosting ) need to know that stuff ( resp . dig into it ) you have to update the software yourself ( security ) you need to fix any problems yourself ;) 3rd party service advantages no setup , no configuration , no updates ( usually ) no costs disadvantages might not offer exactly what you need ; customization possibilites are limited you do n't " own " your content ; ( often ) no backup possibility you have to respect their service terms ( often ) ads you ca n't do anything if it goes down ( often ) you have only one account ; if your password is stolen , your account is lost risk of being deleted ( for no reason ) , risk that the service might shut down forever
Some airlines will match , others wo n't , so it 's tough to answer in the abstract As a general rule though , you 're more likely to get matching from a North American airline , and quite unlikely to get it from a European one except during one-off promotions . Also matching inside of an alliance is usually tough to get , between alliances is easier . For some examples , BA , Emirates , Lufthansa and Singapore are known for not offering status matching , where as Delta and Continental do . Things do change over time , but at the moment your best bet is to look through the <URL> , look up your new " local " airlines and see .
Yes . If you are approved for Global Entry ( the standards around criminal history are more stringent than for Precheck alone ) , you will receive a Known Traveler Number that you may supply with your airline reservations and you will be eligible for Precheck ( assuming you 're flying a participating airline , at a participating airport , and you are n't randomly selected for more intense screening ) . It will work the same as if you applied for TSA Precheck . Applying for Global Entry requires that you be interviewed by CBP at their <URL> , which are different locations from the TSA Precheck enrollment centers . Global Entry reserves the right to disqualify you for basically any criminal history or even just a fishy history with CBP , while <URL> follows a more constrained set of rules where even pretty serious offenses are ok if enough time has passed . People have had <URL> with Global Entry applications , though many are obviously accepted without incident . If you are denied for Global Entry , you wo n't get either Global Entry or TSA Precheck and will be out the application fee , requiring you to apply again just for TSA Precheck if you qualify for that . Note also ( with thanks to James McLeod in comments ) the existance of the <URL> , which includes both Global Entry and TSA Precheck benefits along with expedited entry into Canada . Best of all , it only costs $ 50 for five years . The catch is that you can only enroll at limited locations near the US-Canada border , and the eligibility requirements are a bit different ( must be a US or Canadian citizen or permanent resident ) . There 's a handy <URL> of all the trusted traveler programs you can consult to decide which is best for you . Weirdly , according to the chart , Canadian permanent residents will not receive TSA Precheck with NEXUS though . For an <URL> : If you are a member of Global Entry ( GE ) , you do not need to sign up separately for TSA 's PreCheck program . TSA PreCheck is an added no-cost benefit offered to members of Global Entry , when passport and fingerprints are on file in our systems . Note that your Global Entry application , passport , and airline reservations all must use the same name for this to work . Personally , I 'd go for Global Entry unless getting to an enrollment center was inconvenient or you have a concern that you might not be approved and do n't want to risk wasting the money or time .
An expired residence permit certainly does not allow you to stay or travel in the Schengen area by itself . There are n't any systematic border checks so you would not generally meet any border guard at the border between Norway and Sweden or at the airport when flying back to Sweden . You might therefore easily get away with intra-Schengen travel without proper documentation . But it does not mean it would be legal or that you can not be asked about your status by the police in one country or the other ( even without traveling , incidentally ) . Furthermore , some airlines wo n't let you board without an appropriate visa ( Ryanair is one airline that is notorious for that , see previous questions like <URL> ) and many will at least check your ID so you would expose yourself to some scrutiny in any case . EDIT : Your citizenship makes your situation much easier . You can legally travel , leave and enter the Schengen area as a visitor for up to 90 days and this short-stay does <URL> . Legally speaking , you could also stay in Sweden on that basis alone ( people who can not stay in the Schengen area without a visa might have other ways to get a temporary permit but as far as I know you do n't need one and the advice you received about staying in Sweden would only become relevant if the process took more than three months ) . Do take the expired work permit with you to document the fact that you have n't been overstaying ( your last entry stamp is presumably much older than 90 days ) , show your passport if you are asked for ID ( I would not volunteer a confusing expired document unless it 's needed ) and you should be fine . If you left the Schengen area , I guess you could theoretically be refused entry when coming back but travel within the area should not be a problem at all , even if there is in fact a border check somewhere .
Tap water in MA is quite drinkable ; I 've lived here for over 30 years , drinking it . No funny colors or odors , either .
It depends on the terms of your travel insurance . Usually these insurances include some extras that are not covered by EHIC . Here is a non-exhaustive list of services they can offer , and that are not offered by the basic insurance : Repatriation services , including repatriation by plane . Services for family members . If you get sick during the holidays , they take care of your dependents . If you have to cancel a holiday because of health reasons ( or related ) they can cover cancellation fees . Or fees that arise when you have to interrupt your holiday prematurely . They cover extra costs for doctor visits , medical treatments or hospital stays , not covered by the EHIC . They reimburse costs for special mountain rescues , e.g. when you go skiing . They provide assistance in the case of lost luggage . They provide assistance in the tragic case where you or one of your family members dies abroad . If all these services are covered or if there are other elements covered , and to what extent the are covered , depends on the precise terms and conditions . Just read them or talk to your insurance broker . Or get into contact with a consumers ' association if you want a more neutral point of view . Insurance regulations can differ from one country to another , even in the EU .
There are two potential issues here : Airport security and customs . For airport security : <URL> , " Liquids include liquid or semi-liquid foods , eg soup , jam , honey and syrups " and " Liquids in containers larger than 100ml generally ca n't go through security even if the container is only part full . " Exemptions ( e.g. essential medical purposes ) do n't seem likely to apply here . Watermelon is less <URL> than <URL> , so an agent might use that to classify it more toward the " liquid/container " side than the " solid " side of honey , and honey ( > 100 mL ) is not allowed . It is also less viscous than some honey . Edit to clarify : criteria used in practice for classification is a different question than that of what more scientifically-based criteria agents perhaps should use . In the US , the TSA lists it as <URL> . Although this is the result for the explicit query " watermelon , " the response does have a disclaimer that " Liquid or gel food items larger than 3.4 oz are not permitted in carry-on baggage " so if an agent decides that a watermelon is a non-empty container capable of holding 3.4 oz of liquid or gel , they might use their wide discretion to tell you it 's not allowed . For customs : Although generally speaking when entering <URL> , " <URL> , " other readers traveling to other countries should consider whether or not they 're allowed to transport fruits and seeds across national borders . Rules are much less restrictive for travel within the EU .
You have basically three options : Buy a phone in Europe . If you ca n't find the one you want , buy a cheap one that will suit you until you return home , then buy the phone you really want . Consider re-selling the European phone on eBay back home to recuperate some of your cost . Buy the phone from the US , and pay import duties . If you 're particular about the phone , and you ca n't wait , this is your best bet . There 's a chance you may be able to re-claim the import duty when you leave . It is common to reclaim VAT taxes when leaving as a tourist . In principle import duties are the same , but that does n't mean it 's possible , and it 's certainly not routine , so it may be more hassle than it 's worth . Find someone traveling from the US to Europe , and have them bring it with them . Technically , they are likely subject to the same import duties ( since they 're importing a phone , and it 's not for their personal use ) , but in practice , it 's easy to fly under the radar in this case , and since you 're taking the phone out of the region again , it seems ( to me , IANAL ) within the intent of the law .
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
end question
start question
How far in advance do Qantas release reward flights ?
Officially Qantas allow bookings up to 353 days in advance , although if you 're booking through a 3rd party that can sometimes be reduced down to 330 days which is more of an industry standard . The exact number of days ( or at least , your perception of it ! ) can also vary slightly depending on timezones - Sydney is 10 or 11 hours ahead of the UK , thus it can already be " tomorrow " in Sydney when it 's still " today " in the UK . In the case of Avios , it looks like they allow the full 353 days . Currently the Qantas Australia website is allowing me to view flights up to December 25 , 2013 . The BA/Avios website allows me to select days up until December 26 , but actually looking for the 26th shows no flights available on Qantas . Picking two typical routes ( SYD-BNE and SYD-LAX ) the availability appears to be exactly the same on both the Qantas and Avios websites for the 24th and the 25th of December , which matches what I 've seen before when comparing the two . As an aside , redeeming Avios points for most Qantas domestic flights is an excellent use of them - the redemption rates are far better than even Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the same flights !
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
BC Ferries posts a <URL> for major routes based on historical data . The information is very limited , though . For example , for Tsawwassen ( mainland ) → Swartz Bay ( Victoria ) , expected busy departures over the next two weeks are : Thursday 2015-07-30 : 11am to 8pm Friday 2015-07-31 : 11am to 9pm Saturday 2015-08-01 : 9am to 3pm Sunday 2015-08-02 : not too busy Monday 2015-08-03 ( BC Day holiday ) : noon to 6pm Tuesday 2015-08-04 : 10am to 6pm Whether that means you should make a reservation or not depends on your own risk tolerance .
If the airline can make any claim of weather , traffic , or any sort of delay out of their control , then you have <URL> . Sometimes they will offer hotel vouchers for overnight delays , but in my experience this is almost exclusively when it is due to mechanical problems with their equipment . Even if the delays are due to problems on their end , there is no regulation requiring them to compensate you . The only time you are due compensation is when you are bumped from a flight for overbooking . However , sometimes airlines may be willing to endorse transfers to other airlines , particularly in the case of flight cancellations . This is , however , entirely at their discretion . If they are not willing to work with you , there could actually be additional charges for cancellations .
In general , no , you do n't have to , particularly if you 're just looking for a bed for one night , and are n't terribly picky . That said , the later you choose to pull off the road - particularly in peak travel season - the more likely you are to be greeted by that dreaded " No Vacancy " sign . ( Or , in nicer establishments , a polite refusal at the front desk . ) My typical MO when driving long distances , is to pull off the road at a rest stop or town about 2-3 hours before I intend to stop driving for the day ; ( in my case , this is usually right around the time the sun is getting low enough in the sky to blind me if I 'm driving west , so I can wait it out ; otherwise , around Sunset . ) Then , I 'll use my Smartphone ( or , if I 'm running low tech for some reason , a payphone at a rest stop and a map ) , to look up hotels that are about ~ 100 miles further along the road from where I am , and book a room online before continuing my drive . This gives me the flexibility to book same day for wherever I end up , while avoiding the occasional frustration of showing up at 9 PM to no rooms for 50 miles in any direction on a Friday night , followed by sleeping in the car in a parking lot ( it 's happened to me . It sucks . ) . All of the major US chains have pretty decent mobile sites that are geared towards exactly this sort of use . I find the IHG ( Holiday Inn et al ) , and Best Western apps are particularly good for looking a little bit ahead along a highway . YMMV . Keep in mind that in some cases , booking further in advance can give you access to better pricing or promotions , but you give up flexibility to do so .
I did a route like that last year with a friend of mine . We started in Belgium , went first to Ukraine , then down through Romania , Bulgaria , Turkey , Syria and Jordan , where took the boat to Egypt , then went down to Sudan and Ethiopia . We could easily have driven further down , but we ran out of time . ( Planning to continue later on in my/our life . ) We avoided Israel as otherwise it can be difficult to enter other countries ( especially Egypt and Sudan ) when you have Israelian stamps in your passport . Although we 've been also told that you can get stamps on a separate paper , so you can easily remove them after you left the country . But this is still no guarantee they will let you in as an attentive border control agent could see that there is a period of time missing between different stamps in your passport and still refuse to let you in . Another point which might be interesting : most countries tell you you need a Carnet de Passage to be able to temporarily import a vehicle . We experienced that it is actually possible to do a trip like that without a Carnet . See this question for more information : <URL> Another tidbit of trivia worth mentioning : Did you know , once you get on to the European highway E40 ( which does n't run far from Amsterdam ) driving East , you can actually travel more than 8000 kilometer <URL> !
Nothing and nobody can justifiably stop you heading to international waters . ( <URL> ) However , that 's only half the story : afterwards , you will have to enter somebody 's territorial waters ( unless you plan to stay at sea forever to avoid taxes ; some very rich people have plans to do just that ) . When you do , you will need visas , customs clearance , and immigration checks , just like anybody else : if you are not admitted , it is your carrier 's responsibility to take you back . Because of this last point , many airlines will not allow you to depart unless your arrival clearances are in order , and it may be wise to check with your shipping line . If you plan just to re-enter India , it 's difficult to see how you can be prevented : by definition , you 're not importing anything , and all Immigration could possibly do would be return you to your point of origin , i.e. India . But logic has never stopped bureaucracy , so I would recommend contacting the Bureau of Immigration before you leave to ask how they suggest you should handle it . Update : There is a long tradition in England of taking a day trip to France purely for the sake of saving money on the duty-free goods you can buy while not subject to any national taxation . Some years ago , a ferry company took this to its logical conclusion , of sailing out to international waters , going in circles for a few hours while the shops did good business , and heading back to England . This is no longer in operation , alas , but as I remember you did not need a passport but definitely did need to clear Customs on return ( though in practice the officers often just gave up the task of checking that several hundred merry day-trippers had not miscalculated their allowances ) .
If you know that you will have internet access in London , you can judge the weather at that very hour in London , book a non-flexible non-fast-track standard ticket <URL> from your computer , select the scheduled time as the next hour or so , and then head for the London Eye . You will have to collect the physical ticket at the booth by showing the confirmation email on your mobile . There is almost no line ( < 5 minute wait on a Sunday from my experience ) for ticket collection of pre-booked tickets , as opposed to the massive queue to buy a ticket at the venue . After receiving the physical ticket , you can queue up ( < 10 minute wait on a Sunday from my experience ) in front of the London Eye , and get on board even if you have arrived early by as much as one hour from what you have scheduled on the internet . Do n't forget to see the short 4D video clip about London - it is included in the ticket . Edit : London Eye is always closed for the first 2-3 weeks of January for annual maintenance ( and perhaps to clean up after the New Year 's Eve fireworks ) .
This is an excerpt from <URL> and <URL> See also <URL> even though it is about to be marked duplicate . <URL> has very powerful search options ( see the advanced options ) , including choice of return and departure day , length of stay , period within which the trip should happen and a range of departure and arrival airports . Exactly as you ask they look for connections on separate tickets <URL> , even on different ( low-cost ) airlines . <URL> <URL> does the same and let 's you circle departure/destination in on a map , has date range and also some kind of " promise " to help you if you miss a non-guaranteed connection . Finally be aware of <URL>
The rule is actually 60 min for domestic , 120 min for international . Some companies , like Delta , even require 3 hours for international flights . That could have a series of motivations , mainly due to convenience . Bigger planes imply more luggage to load , more people to wait , more people to get on board . It seems reasonable that they do n't want the plane to get delayed with people who came barely earlier than 30 min . And they obviously need to admin on board everyone who came before the stipulated time .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
You can travel on most public transportation in London with your Oyster Card - Bus , Tube , tram , DLR ( Docklands Light Railway ) , London Overground , and Thames Clipper boats . You can even use it on the Emirates Air Line . The Oyster Card gives you a wide area of travel . The Tube has 9 zones . As long as you start and finish your journey within these 9 zones , you can use your Oyster Card . You can find more information here : <URL> You mentioned Paddington - You can not use your Oyster Card on the Heathrow Express which travels between Paddington and Heathrow Airport . But , you can easily use it at Paddington on the Tube ( Bakerloo , Circle , District , and Hammersmith &amp; City lines ) . Starting in September 2015 , you can easily touch in and touch out on the Thames Clipper boats with your Oyster Card to pay for your river travel . This makes travel on the river Thames easy . Here is a map of the routes it takes : <URL>
There are no international standards for airline transport of musical instruments . Each airline has its own policy as to what it will or wo n't accept as checked or cabin luggage , what its dimensions are or how large or heavy it can be , how much insurance might be required , what the baggage fee would be , and so on . So unfortunately , you will need to check with every airline in your itinerary as to their policies and fees . Bringing instruments on as hand luggage adds day-of-travel concerns as well ; if the scheduled plane is swapped for a smaller one at the last minute , you may no longer be able to take it aboard , or if you arrive late at a connection and all the overhead bin and other storage space is occupied , you 'd be asked to check the instrument or have to be rescheduled for a later flight . If you search around the web you will find innumerable horror stories ( one incident <URL> not long ago , although in fairness it could have happened on any airline ) . But you 'll also find personal accounts like <URL> ; newspaper articles like <URL> or this <URL> ; tips from musicians ' organizations such as the lists by the <URL> ; suggestions from manufacturers and retailers like <URL> ; and independent resources like <URL> . To summarize some of the common tips , consider the following : Contact each airline and explain you will be traveling with an instrument . For example , an airline might allow you to purchase an extra seat for a tuba or a bass , but may allow only one instrument per flight , which wo n't be obvious when you book online . For many airlines it is not possible to reserve an extra seat for a single person , meaning you will need to call and get a seat assignment anyway . Invest in a good travel case . Even though some instruments may be able to fit into standard luggage , they will generate less suspicion from security and more sympathy from gate agents and flight attendants if stored in a proper instrument case , not to mention enjoy better protection . The smallest case that will fit the instrument is advisable ; while that means it has less space for tools or cleaning fluids , those are probably best packed separately anyway as they can cause security screening delays . Purchase sufficient insurance . Be prepared to purchase an extra seat for it , if it is larger than a cello and you do n't want to check it . Some airlines forbid this , others require it . Be prepared and be patient . Bring printouts of each airline 's musical instrument policy . Arrive early and board as early as possible to maximize your storage options . But above all be friendly and patient with all airport , security , and airline personnel ; they can make any traveler 's experience difficult , but passengers with special requirements are an easier target . Within the United States , airlines are subject to federal <URL> requiring them to accept musical instruments as checked or carry-on luggage . One more thing : your instrument may be able to collect frequent flyer miles , but not always , and it 's become <URL> for airlines . Given all of that , it may be worth considering traveling with a backup instrument instead of your favorite , to borrow or rent an instrument at your destination , or use an alternative instrument ( e.g. a travel electric bass instead of your regular double bass ) . Of course , none of these options is a slam dunk , either .
Yes , you can , but only via Iceland . There are no non-stop or direct flights from the US to Greenland . To Iceland : <URL> serves several US destinations year-round from Reykjavik 's Keflavik International Airport , including : Boston Denver New York-JFK Seattle Also , these destinations seasonally : Anchorage ( summer ) Minneapolis ( summer ) Washington D.C. ( summer ) Orlando-Sanford ( winter ) Also , <URL> flies from New York-JFK to Reykjavik in the summer . Iceland to Greenland : From Reykjavik 's Keflavik International Airport , <URL> serves Nuuk . From Reykjavik Airport ( primarily a domestic airport ) , <URL> serves these destinations in Greenland : Nuuk Kulusuk Island Neerlerit Inaat Enjoy your trip !
You should not have an issue finding a good hotel in Shanghai or Hong Kong . There are plenty of them in both cities and they are well advertised , especially to tourists . For you it would come down to prices . With early planning , you can easily find very good hotels for a fair price . Both of these two cities are very expensive but if you dont mind the pricing , go ahead and book whenever you arrive there .
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
I spent about half the day yesterday booking my flights . Here is the info I found : Airlines that do not allow in-cabin pets on transatlantic flights : American , Continental , U.S. Airways Airlines that do allow in-cabin pets on transatlantic flights : Delta , Lufthansa , United These are personally verified by calling the airlines , and by taking my dog to Germany from Frankfurt on Lufthansa .
I lived in DC/Northern VA area for the past four years . I can tell you riding Metro in the city is the way to go . Traffic in DC is very bad and on top of that the roads can be very very confusing for visitors . The worst part is probably the parking . During prime tourist hours , it 's almost impossible to find one . I do n't know which part of Maryland you 'll be becoming from . If you 're coming from the Red Line ( Shade Grove ) area , then I recommend driving to the Bethesda station and park there . If you 're coming from Red Line ( Glenmont ) area , I recommend parking at the Silver Spring station . The stations in the suburbs have parking lots ( they charge by the hours , or a maximum of $ 5ish per day ) , where as most of the ones inside of DC do n't . If you plan to do some sightseeing in the city , check out the official <URL> Most of the tourist spots are Metro accesible . You can also check out all the metro stations wrt to the tourust spots on <URL> There are different types of Metro cards you can get . <URL> : works like a plastic credit card . you can buy these at MD/VA grocery stores . You start with a $ 20 value , and can add more $ to it later . I think the best deal for visitors is the One Day Pass . For $ 9 , It is valid for one day of unlimited Metro travel on weekdays after 9:30 a.m. or all day on Saturdays , Sundays .
At the entrance of a carpool lane , a sign always indicates how many people are required in each vehicle to be eligible , since situations sometimes vary . The sign can say " CARPOOL ONLY - 2 OR MORE PERSONS PER VEHICLE " In Los Angeles area , nearly all carpool lanes have a minimum of 2 passengers . I only have seen one case in which three passengers were required . At the time of my visit in 2009 , the freeway heading east of Union Station to El Monte had passenger requirements that depended on the time and day of week . In normal hours , 2 passengers were enough ; in weekday posted rush hour times , the requirement was 3 passengers . Be careful in the area : now , there is a new system called <URL> running on I-10 and I-110 freeways . The concept is that people not eligible to enter the lane may buy their way in by paying a congestion-priced toll , instead of getting a fine . Toll collection happens electronically , and uses a compulsory transponder . Legitimate carpoolers who used to simply drive through the lane are now required to have the transponder on ExpressLanes , even if no toll is charged for them . The transponder has a switch to indicate the number of occupants . Other freeways still have the " classic " carpool lanes .
Right , with a bit of research , I 've put the following together . Modern Japanese mobile phones ( 携帯電話 keitai denwa or just keitai ) tend to operate on unique cellular standards not always compatible with the rest of the world . For instance , most Japanese 2G mobile phones operate on the Personal Digital Cellular ( PDC ) standard , which was developed and is used exclusively in Japan . In a nutshell : A lot of 2G phones ( GSM , etc ) from the rest of the world do not work in Japan . Even Quad-band GSM phones are useless . As AU switches its CDMA network to " new " 800MHz ( used in the rest of the world ) , foreign CDMA phones will be able to be used in Japan for roaming purposes . However , the switchover is still in progress , so only use this if staying in Tokyo or Osaka . 3G phones using the UMTS/WCDMA2100 standard and equipped with a 3G SIM card will most likely work . If your phone is up to spec , double-check with your carrier if they have a roaming agreement with either SoftBank or NTT DoCoMo . Coverage is generally excellent , unless you are heading to some remote mountainous areas . If you have no 3G phone but still have a 3G-compatible SIM card , you can rent a 3G phone in Japan and slot in your card , allowing you to keep your home phone number in Japan . Carrier restrictions may apply : for instance , O2-UK ( operating in Japan via NTT DoCoMo ) requires you to dial 111 # , wait for a callback ; then , dial the actual number you wish to connect . Be sure to double-check with your network provider before departing . GSM-only SIMs are issued by providers that do n't have their own 3G network . If your home operator have no 3G network , or if you got your phone before their 3G network was introduced , this may apply to you . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . USIM cards are issued by providers that have a 3G network or plan to introduce one . Any European who got their SIM card after 2003 has one of these . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . Data roaming works as well ( subject to the above restrictions ) , allowing you to use wireless internet on your phone ( although it can be expensive ! ) . Google Maps on your phone can be invaluable ( although note that tower positioning does not work ) . Short visits For a short visit , your cheapest option for mobile access is to rent a phone . A number of companies provide this service . Rental rates and call charges vary , the best one can depend on how long you are renting and how much you will call . Beware of " free " rental as there is a catch : usually , there are very high call charges . Incoming calls are free in Japan . Mobal Communications Inc. . Free rental ( meaning there is no expense unless you actually call someone ) . ¥ 240/min domestic and international . Very expensive ( around $ 3 ) - have people call you instead , since incoming calls are free . Be careful not to lose the phone or the charger as the company charges horrendous amounts . Rentafone Japan ¥ 3,900 up to one week , then ¥ 300/day . Shipping included . ¥ 35/min ~ domestic . USA ¥ 45/min . ¥ 300 for unlimited emailing . You can also use your SIM in the phones . Offers customers a choice of phones . Japan Mobile Rental ¥ 1,200 per day for unlimited broadband internet Connect up to 5 devices Install Skype on your PC or phone and take advantage of cheap international calling rates Use in virtually any place in Japan Pick-up at our Narita or Kansai Airport counters , or at your hotel . SoftBank Global Rental ¥ 250/day ; SIM card : ¥ 105/day . * ¥ 105/min domestic . USA ¥ 105/min . Incoming calls are free . iPhone SIM Rental ( 3GS/4 ) is available . ¥ 1,500 per day for iPhone unlimited data communications . MyJapanPhone " Free rental " for the first week , but you must pay for shipping at rather high rates working out at at least $ 30 . After that $ 2/day . $ 0.70 / min domestic . USA $ 0.90 / min . Incoming calls are free . Extra $ 10 use email . Service tax of 15 % added to final bill . Run from the US by the people who run Panda Phone ( Chinese phone rental ) . Telecom Square ¥ 525/day . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 800-1800 if you want the phone delivered . . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 100/min ( daytime ) . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . go mobile ¥ 2,995 / week with 15 free minutes , plus ¥ 1,000 for shipping . ¥ 85/min domestic . International ¥ 100/min . Incoming calls are free . Final credit card charge can be up to 2 months after return . Inphonix ¥ 315/day ( rental fee waived for ANA passengers ) . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 1,575 if you want the phone delivered . ¥ 120/min domestic . International ¥ 150/min . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . Air 's ¥ 200/day ¥ 100/min domestic ( NO international calls ) or ¥ 160/min omestic and international . Incoming calls are free . Mobile Phone Japan ¥ 2,900 up to one week / ¥ 5,600 up to two weeks . Shipping included . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 78/min . Prepaid phones - you need to buy a top-up car
end question
start question
Where does Google Flights get its data from ?
Google uses ITA Software 's <URL> , which uses algorithms to combine and parse multiple sets of flight information from airlines . This includes any pricing and any other available data , which allows them to keep an up-to-date database that can be searched just like their search engine . This allows them to check against multiple different airlines for the various data that all of those programs like expedia and travelocity have access to . Refer to the information provided in the links to prevent for a lengthy post that is just quoted from the website . It is a quite complex and very effective software . You can read more on this topic on <URL> . EDIT : If you 're looking to find really good flights at a cheaper rate , Google has a good starting point for sure . I would potentially refer to websites like <URL> or <URL> as well however and then compare the prices . I always like to refer to multiple sources and see who offers the best rate . I usually always start with a Google search , this allows you to see what airlines might be the right one to go with in the long run .
You have answered your own question by providing the official reason Ryan Air do this : to ensure compliance with immigration authorities When Ryan Air first introduced this policy in 2009 , <URL> : A Ryanair spokesman said it had introduced the rule early this summer to allow non-EU and - EEA passengers to use web check-in . Previously , the airline did not allow non-EU and - EEA passengers to check in online ; instead , it offered a refund of the extra cost of checking in at the airport . Aer Lingus says it does not have such a requirement . " For those passengers who check in online , passports are checked either at the bag-tag desk or bag-drop machine or at the boarding gate , " a spokeswoman said . The Ryanair spokesman said : " Other airlines do n't offer passengers the convenience of 100 per cent web check-in , so they do n't need to do this yet . They check visas at their long-queue check-in desks , which Ryanair passengers now avoid . " Most of the time <URL> . All other airlines do some form of basic visa checks in the background . Ryan Air either have not updated to procedures , or are choosing to do it this way . Another thing to note is that Ryan Air only checks that your Passport is OK to travel , or that you have a valid visa . They do n't check for example whether you are overstaying your visa ( e.g. <URL> ) . But what about Domestic flights or flights between Schengen countries ? This is where their official reasoning breaks down . They have a blanket policy for all Non-EU Nationals regardless of the flight they are taking . Obviously there is no immigration requirements for domestic flight , nor is there one between two schengen countries . They might say it is easier to have one policy for all their flights , but its hard to believe this when they are the only ones to do this in the first place . Why do n't they just perform the check at the boarding gate ? Actually I have witnessed some positive experiences with other passengers forgetting their visa check , and the staff being nice enough to check it and stamp it at the boarding gate . However this has been far less than the experiences of seeing people rejected . inserted : From Easy Jet ( another budget airline ) Will my travel documents be checked at the airport ? You need to provide photographic ID at check-in on all flights , including domestic services . On domestic flights ( excluding Italy ) an ID check at the boarding gate is NOT required for passengers travelling with cabin baggage only . It is only mandatory that ID checks are conducted for passengers travelling with hold luggage . If you check-in online you will still need to provide your photographic ID when you go through security and again when you board the plane . What are the travel documents that I need ? You need to provide photographic ID at check-in on all flights , including domestic services but the types required vary . For clarification please see the table below : <URL> not every country issues a national identity card . Please note : a driving licence does not represent a valid photographic ID , with the exception of UK domestic flights . Money Making Scheme ? Many people actually ( as @Andrew Lazarus has already mentioned ) believe this is another one of their money making schemes . Many passengers are denied boarding due to this clause and by that time they do not have enough time to go back to the check-in counter and come back through security to board the flight . Thus requiring them to purchase another ticket . I would tend to agree with this idea , they also are very strict with the check-in bag sizes and their <URL> Update : I asked them on Twitter about Domestic and Schengen flights : <URL> I was unable to get them to give me a reason for why they do the visa check for Schengen flights
Public system Any nurse can do that also in Portugal . Going to a " centro de saúde " is a good choice . These are part of the national health system . In principle you do n't need an appointment . Just go there and explain the reason . That is so fast and simple that they may solve it immediately . Be prepared and take some " patience " with you though . The system usually works well but you can always get some " old school " public servant . Being a foreigner you will most likely be very well treated . Portuguese in general are very pleasant , and like foreign visitors , but be prepared for that 0.1 % chance . You might need to wait or return another day if it 's crowded . It 's hard to tell since that varies a lot in geographical area and time of the year . In any case you can always call first to <URL> ( 808 24 24 24 ) . This is a phone line from the national helth system to give advice about daily health problems ( not urgency , that is 112 ) . They will be able to help , and I would probably do this first . They can even point you to the nearest " centro de saúde " Private options There are also many private nurses / offices . It should n't be hard to find one . And a simple treatment/thing should be very cheap . You can look in yellow pages for nurses : <URL> You can also ask in a pharmacy where you can do it . There are many and often offer more services than just selling drugs ( they often have specialized personnel ) . They might actually remove stitches or point you in the right direction . I would definitely visit one to know . If they 're not too busy I would n't be surprised that they helped you , even if they do n't offer the service by default . And without any promise , I would n't even be surprised if they did n't charge for such a thing .
Google uses ITA Software 's <URL> , which uses algorithms to combine and parse multiple sets of flight information from airlines . This includes any pricing and any other available data , which allows them to keep an up-to-date database that can be searched just like their search engine . This allows them to check against multiple different airlines for the various data that all of those programs like expedia and travelocity have access to . Refer to the information provided in the links to prevent for a lengthy post that is just quoted from the website . It is a quite complex and very effective software . You can read more on this topic on <URL> . EDIT : If you 're looking to find really good flights at a cheaper rate , Google has a good starting point for sure . I would potentially refer to websites like <URL> or <URL> as well however and then compare the prices . I always like to refer to multiple sources and see who offers the best rate . I usually always start with a Google search , this allows you to see what airlines might be the right one to go with in the long run .
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
In many of the big cities you will find department stores that are dedicated to selling electronics equipment . This is the place to buy your plan . The reason is that most of the booths are manned by young people and you are more likely to find someone who can speak English . You need to understand that although Chinese people are trying hard to learn English from a young age their English level is quite low , this could be a struggle . The second reason is that if someone can afford to have a booth inside a department store they should be somewhat reputable as compared to a shop on the street . The rule with handing out money in China is to try everything before you buy it and get a receipt . Then once you have tried it , try it again about 1km away from the store ASAP in case it does n't work and you need to return it quickly . I have had experiences where the shopkeeper has assured me a phone card would work only for it to not work when I tried it the next day and I had to go back and argue with them . You definitely need to try it with your equipment before you leave the store . You should also make sure your 3G operator is <URL> they have the monopoly on the mobile business , I would n't trust anyone else .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
You can go by train from Wrocław to Oświęcim ( Auschwitz ) and then from Oświęcim to Kraków . The last train from Oświęcim to Kraków is at 20h54 . You can check the train times and fares <URL> . I think that a less stressing way is to go to Kraków first and visit Oświęcim on a day trip from there . Alternatively , if you do not want to go to Kraków first , you could consider to spend the night in Oświęcim . This could be the night before or after the visit .
The easiest way to solve this problem is to avoid US-based airlines . These will stop in the US as that would be their main transit hub . If you stick with European airlines , you can avoid the US completely . You did not mention from where in Europe , but as an example from UK you have <URL> .
Assumptions Let 's make some assumptions : The question " how far can I see ? " can be answered by asking " how far is it to the apparent horizon ? " <URL> By this definition , a taller vantage point allows to see farther than a lower one The <URL> The maximum height above sea level in Ethiopia is <URL> The Red Sea is a large puddle of water which is likely to be visible if located between the observer and the apparent horizon Some Data The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 2000m is 159.7 km The apparent horizon distance from a point at a height of 4550m is 241km The average distance between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and the Red Sea is 60km ( calculated using my thumb as scale and google maps ) From where Can I See the Red Sea in Ethiopia ? Given the assumptions and the data above , one should be able to see the Red Sea from Ethiopia , given an observation point at a height of 2000m placed between the Ethiopia-Eritrea border and 90km from such border . The map below ( <URL> ) shows four circles with a a radius of 159.7 km , placed roughly at the border between Eritrea and the Red Sea . These highlight an area of land in Ethiopia from which the Red Sea should be visible . Moreover , an observer standing at the summit of the Ethiopian highlands should be able to see the Red Sea , since this is at a distance which is less than the distance of the apparent horizon calculated from that point . The yellow circle in the map below shows an area with a radius of 241km centred on the Ethiopian Highlands . This circle highlights the visible area from this point , a significant part of which encompasses the Red Sea . <URL>
The PDF you provided is both in Slovenian and English language . The English part starts roughly in the middle , so there is no need to translate . Be aware that Tušmobil 's cell coverage is not very good outside major cities and other populated areas . To cover the grey area , they have an agreement with the national cell provider Telekom Slovenije , formerly known as Mobitel . But that does not apply for the 24-hour internet for 1 $ . For that , you must be using Tušmobil 's cell network . Your other options are Telekom Slovenije . This is the best and most popular network , and also the most expensive . Here you have an option for 9,90 $ and you get 1 day of internet access , additional days are 2 $ . You can also get a 30-day option for 10 $ , which is a better option if you intend to use it for more than 5 days . See <URL> and <URL> . Simobil . This is the second most popular network , it is good in populated areas but the reception in other areas is poorer than Telekom Slovenije . But it is still better than Tušmobil . Here you have an option for 5 $ and get a 3-day internet access with that . Additional 3-days will cost you 5 $ , 30-days will cost you 10 $ . See <URL> and <URL> . Overall , a week 's worth of mobile internet wo n't cost you more than 10-20 $ . If you are intending to stay in larger cities , go for the cheapest option . But if you are planning on going to the mountains , national parks and other distant areas , then be aware that Telekom Slovenije ( Mobitel ) has better coverage than Tušmobil and Simobil .
You bring up a good point . Cancellation penalties are so different by property that its hard to really get a cancellation system going that would then allow you to fill rooms at the last minute . With that said though , there are sites like laterooms.com and lastminutetravel.com that you could check . In my travels , I 've found that there is always a room available in any given city , its just that you may pay quite a bit for it :-) . The major hotel booking Web sites usually pull from the same global distribution system , but some of them may have a special deal with specific properties and hence while one site will show sold out another may not . So this means you should try them all . Also , if you know where you want to stay , contact them by phone or e-mail as not all their rooms may be available online . Plus , not all accommodations can be booked online . I 'm an odd traveler as I 'll go to a totally unknown destination without a hotel room reservation . After 107 countries traveled , only once I 've had to pay $ 200/night for a room and that was in Amsterdam after walking around for 3 hours and could not find something that was cheaper and that I liked . I was tired and wet from the rain , so I caved . I hope this helps .
I just went through and looked up all the ratings . Below is the list of National Parks , sorted by rating and then by number of reviews as of September 1 , 2016 . * Glacier and Denali National Parks both stated 3.8 with no review count on the Google homepage , but 3.7 and review count when looking on Google Maps . I do not know why there is a discrepancy , but all other ratings are from the Google homepage .
The bio-date page of a passport is the page with your biographical data ( name , date of birth , passport number , expiration date , etc. . . ) . Most passports will also show your picture on this page , along with the <URL> at the bottom . Examples : <URL> Public domain <URL> Source : <URL>
I ended up getting a typhoid shot at the Zagreb city-run Andrija Stampar Teaching Institute of Public Health ( Croatian : Zavod za javno zdravstvo " Dr. Andrija Štampar " , <URL> ) . The address is <URL> . Look for the signs for " epidemiologija " , just to the left inside the main entrance . The medical staff spoke good English , the cost was around $ 30 ( April 2016 ) , and I was in and out in about 20 minutes .
Similar to what Tom mentions , I concur that one answer does n't fit all . But there are many factors ( unfortunately at this point I do n't have much sources for them ) which can be considered , As you mentioned , European and US airports do not operate at night time hours , but I do n't see this as a problem . For instance , DEL to FRA is covered by two direct flights , i.e. Lufthansa 761 and Air India 121 . Lufthansa leaves late at night whereas Air India leaves in the afternoon . So this problem seems like it can be easily avoided by morning flights which can land on airports in Europe in the afternoon . Hegemony could be a factor and to be quite honest , I see some evidence of it as well . Almost all flights from NRT ( Tokyo , Japan ) to most airports in the US are at perfectly good morning timings . BUT , here 's a reason which compels me the most . India has busy airports with heavy domestic traffic . In comparison to airports in US and Europe ( which either have more runways or have multiple airports in one city ) we have relatively lesser number of runways . If you were to visit the airport in the morning in Delhi , you would see clear evidence of this . So to prevent overcrowding of the runways in Delhi , most international flights tend to leave at night . As I showed you an example earlier , there are some ( albeit a much lesser number ) in the day as well .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
Probably not the answer you were hoping for , but I think the best way to get upgraded is to fly a lot with the airline . Generally when the flight 's overbooked in one class , and they 're trying to pick which person to upgrade , frequent flyer status is the first metric they use . The higher your status , the higher up the list you go ! Having a high status with a partner airline can work too , high tiers with a partner airline usually comes below the airline 's own frequent flyers , but above everyone else . Otherwise , if you 're flying on your own that 'll help in the event that there are n't enough frequent flyer to upgrade to free the required number of seats ! Being polite and smartly dressed can help . Offering to pay may be an option too - if they 're pretty full they may offer you a low price to upgrade , on the grounds that some money from you is better than none from a free upgrade to frequent traveller . Ask at checkin about that , and see what they say . If you have a title , make sure that 's on your booking . Friends of mine who are doctors seem to get upgraded more than ones who are n't , and the airline need n't know that you happen to be a Doctor of 14th century poetry or astrophysics , rather than a medical one ! In general though , the busier the flight , the more likely an upgrade . There are a few airlines that 'll upgrade people to fill a higher cabin , but most these days will only do it when a cabin is full . A different option is to volunteer to be bumped off a very full flight , but upgraded on the next one they put you onto . I know Delta to that for an example , but I think it 's a fairly general possibility . Does require a very busy original flight though , and the airline really wanting people to opt not to fly !
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
end question
start question
Pass in the Alps that can be crossed by mountain bike ?
I did some researching the last days and since no one else has answered this question , I 'll do it . During the winter , but also in spring or late autumn , passes are often closed for cars , because of the weather and road conditions . If you 're lucky , you can catch a day when the pass is still closed for cars , but it is already possible to drive over it . This occasions are rare , but sometimes it is possible . To check the current conditions and status of passes in the Alps , you can check <URL> . It is in German , but the meaning is really obvious . At least in Switzerland , there are a lot of signed mountain bike routes . These routes also climb over passes and if not using a separate way for bicycles , at least one lane on the main road is reserved for bicycles . For example <URL> crosses the <URL> . In some countries in the Alps , there are also a lot of roads that can only be used in one direction at one time . So it is not car free , but at least the traffic comes from only one direction . An example for that is the road to the <URL> . But maybe the best option is to look for hiking treks that are also accessible by bike . On most Swiss hike treks , it is not forbidden to also use a bike . Choosing this option , it is very important to prepare the tour carefully , to be sure that the whole trek is really ride able . A famous example is the <URL> , that is also part of some famous transalpian competitions . Last but not least , there exist some old paths , built by the Romans , that are still visible today , or where a new road is built at the same place . These roads are less traveled and it might be a good choice for bicycles . A famous example is the <URL> .
Generally the burden is on you to prove onward travel . Whether that be air or land . Some case examples : I flew into Canada , and was going to bus to the USA . I had to prove I had a bus ticket to leave I flew into Argentina , with the intention of busing around South America . I had a return ticket to the UK . This was fortunate , as it at least showed I planned on leaving at some point . I was still then able to bus out . I was required to prove this even before getting on the plane TO Argentina - airlines can be fined if they let you onboard without proof of onward travel AND a valid visa / entry permit . Therefore , you will likely need either a plane ticket out of Brazil which you will then ' decide ' not to use , or will need to purchase a bus ticket in advance . At a push , having a hotel booked in Argentina might be enough , as it 's evidence you 're leaving . I 've been told by people that Canada is satisfied enough with such proof , given you could go to Niagara Falls and then walk across , although I 've not put that to the test .
Go to the airport anyway . Most likely you will end up with a seat . If not , the airline will take care of you and get you to your destination on another flight . Some possible explanations : The flight is overbooked . If someone else fails to show up for the flight , you 'll have a seat . If not , they will offer incentives ( vouchers for future travel ) for someone to give up their seat and take a later flight . If nobody does , they will bump someone at random ( not necessarily you ) , give them compensation , and put them on a later flight . There are seats still available , but they want to save them for special customers ( elite-level frequent flyers , etc ) . Perhaps they are " premium " seats with extra legroom , exit rows , etc. . Right now these special customers have seats elsewhere on the plane . Sometime before departure , the airline will upgrade their elite customers into these premium seats , leaving their original seats for you . So you most likely will get a seat , though you may not have much choice as to which seat . If you buy your ticket further in advance , when more seats are available , you will have a better chance of being able to confirm your seat assignment .
No , you can not . This information is not available to the public nor is it obtainable from the airline ( s ) without some court order . I would imagine it is near impossible for even normal law enforcement to get it as there is no " show me anyone who has a flight booked on this date " query possible ( as far as I know ) , since this information is distributed between the global GDS systems . I would not put it beyond the reach of some clandestine intelligence organization though . Even when law enforcement wants to know if someone has booked a flight , they usually have their name and another variable - such as a credit card or bank information against which to check ; and then they work the way back to the airline . However , I can imagine a scenario at a local airport where there are a handful of airlines , that law enforcement can compel them to reveal their bookings for that day - but that would have to be under court order and not without serious implications . For the boarding pass , it gets even more difficult . Just keep the surprise a surprise . :) If you really do want to get to know this information ; it is highly likely your boss used a travel agent to book these tickets ( as group bookings are commonly done through agents - because online sites generally have a limit on the number of tickets ; and agents usually give better discounts on such packages ) . So , I would do some low-tech sleuthing and try to find out which travel agency the company uses . Chances are high it was the same one that was used last time .
According to <URL> , it was closed in 1835 . Later it was razed , and a library now stands on the site .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
There is actually a monument called ' <URL> ' ( Middle of the World ) in Ecuador . However they claim this is based on being on the equator ( it turned out later they were off by 240 meters when choosing the spot ) . Why the place is more special ( middle , centered ) than any other place on the equator I do n't know . It is a bit of a cheesy place but makes a fun day trip from Quito .
I found out that I can set the date when I exchange . More info here : <URL>
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Last time I flew Spirit , I was able to print my boarding pass at a kiosk without paying an additional fee . I believe the $ 10 fee only applies if you get a counter agent to print it for you .
You did not really specify where exactly you want to go , but since you mentioned Jungfrau region , I assume that you 're talking about <URL> . As Kathryn Hill already mentioned , it can get very cold up there . But this is not only the case in winter . Since it is around 3500 meters above sea level , it is cold year round up there . Even now in autumn , it can get as low as -20 ° C. And even in the highest summer season , the temperature might be around 0 ° C . So you should really be prepared for cold weather during the whole year . I would recommend that you particularly focus on wearing warm shoes that are water-proofed so that you wo n't get wet socks . Nothing is nastier than wet-socks when it 's cold out there . Furthermore , bring a warm cap with you and I 'm sure you wo n't regret if you also bring gloves with you . I personally would also wear a warm jacket , especially one that stops the wind . If it 's cold and windy , you will easily suffer from <URL> . Trousers are not so important if you do n't plan to lie or sit in the snow . In this case a normal jeans ( if you prefer with long underwear as Kathryn Hill mentioned ) is enough . Otherwise , I would recommend a waterproofed trouser . Additionally , you should not forget to wear sunglasses . If the weather is nice , the sun is very bright and since on Jungfraujoch , there is snow all year round , the sunlight will be reflected heavily . For the same reason , also make sure to bring your sunscreen with you . If you plan to walk in the snow , you could also borrow gaiters to prevent snow getting in your shoes . Concerning your medical question : There are <URL> on the Jungfraujoch homepage . The biggest danger is altitude sickness . Altitude sickness is caused by the decreasing air pressure and oxygen level in higher altitudes . However , normally , the first symptoms of altitude sickness will not be visible before 6-12 hours , so , normally , this should n't be a problem in your case . However , I would recommend to read the medical hints to be on the safe side .
( I 'm promoting and editing my comment to an answer since we have n't received anything better ) While I was there ( almost a week ) I found only one exchange place in Skopje which did n't list but did buy them when we asked about it ( no selling though ) . The rate was terrible , about 25 % below the official rate ! I was suggested to try the bus station but never tried as I managed to swap some cash with a traveller in my hostel heading the opposite way .
I was in Puerto Vallarta last week , and did some asking around , but with very little success . Cycling does n't seem to be popular there . The closest I found was some motorcycle and 4-wheeler rental places . I know it 's not quite the same experience , but at least you could be " out in nature " on some wheels ... Also , in my experience in other parts of Mexico , mountain biking just is n't popular . Hiking is , to a degree , and cross-country biking . But I 've never seen or heard of mountain biking , per se . And I 've never seen any trails suitable for mountain biking ( but maybe they 're kept at great distance from the hiking trails where I 've been ... shrug ) Here are a couple places I found : Harley Davidson Rentals 322-118-8800 322 -185 -1984 On the corner of Avenida México &amp; Calle Nicaragua Cool Rentals &amp; Cool Tours 322-223-3239 On Avenida México between Calle Honduras and Calle Panamá Avenida México is the main street that runs one-way north to south through the main part of Puerto Vallarta , so both of these places should be easy to find . They were both closed when I went by , so I was not able to go in and ask for any details or prices . Likewise , I can not make any actual recommendations . I hope this is of some use to you , even though it 's not related to bicycles directly . Have fun in Puerto Vallarta !
Well , you can go old-shool : buy a decent road atlas . Usually there is a table with distances between larger cities ( either at the beginning or at the end ) - so using it you can have an idea about the scale . Moreover , on every decent road map you will have distances on the actual map - however these are usually between junctions etc. , so you will have to sum up quite a few of them to get the distance for a longer route .
As a former Flightfox ' expert ' , this has changed over time . For a while , if you paid and ran a contest , and they could n't beat your price , you could request a refund ( if you proved you had a lower price ) , and you 'd get your money back . Then a few months back they changed their model and shut out most of the experts , changing the remainder to ' travel consultants ' . The idea being instead of having a bunch of people throw prices at you , you 'd get one of their best people working with you to find the lowest price . Odds are , you 're going to get amazing service . When I was competing as an expert on the site - and I consider myself reasonably good at finding flight specials , I was in awe at some of the prices some people were managing to find . I 'd use the site to get other experts to beat my prices for my own travel as well . They 're seriously good . Now the <URL> specify : On Flightfox , travel consultants ( the " Experts " ) try to build you the best trip itinerary in exchange for a fee . You pay this fee for services rendered . If you are unhappy with the service , you may request a refund from your expert . Your expert holds full discretion to approve or decline refunds . So there 's no ' guarantee ' , and there 's always a chance that you 'll find the absolute cheapest fare . Nobody can promise to beat every single price . But if you 're unhappy or they really ca n't beat you , it 's in their interests to refund . In the past when I used it and they could n't beat a YVR - > SFO return flight of mine , they refunded it . I 'd probably still use them for a complex trip . They 're amazing . However I now compete on darjeelin.com ( see referral link in my profile if interested ) as Flightfox has shut a lot of us out , which is disappointing . I 've met the founders and like them and really support the site - as an ' expert ' I 'll use darjeelin , but as a customer , I 'd still use flightfox . It 's a great solution .
A rail pass , like the Eurail , is not always cheaper than buying tickets separately . It depends on your age and on how much and how far you want to travel . If you book in advance you can get more or less important discounts . The drawback is that you have to commit to an itinerary in advance . A pass gives you much more flexibility . Also note that if you are using a pass , you have to pays extra fees for compulsory seat reservations . You can find an overview of the tariffs <URL> . Now you see that the definitive answer depends on you and your plan . You can easily check the prices and book the tickets via the following websites : <URL> , for train travel in France , as well as between England and France and Italy and France . Do n't be misled by the name of the site . It is not confined to TGV trains only . <URL> , for train travel in Italy and between Italy and France . <URL> for train travel in England . I have quickly done the exercise for a hypothetical trip in May . I managed to find all the individual tickets for around 160 EUR if you travel in the 2nd class . Note that you will have to book as soon as possible and that you will certainly have to incur fees if you change your itinerary afterwards . The Eurail pass costs 228 EUR if you are less than 26 years old or 348 EUR if you are older . Add to these prices the reservation fees . Note that the " Adult " ( 26 + ) Eurail pass entitles you to travel in the first class . If flexibility and 1st class comfort are important , go for the Eurail pass . Otherwise , I would try to book the legs individually . For long distance travel in France you can also refer to a previous question on our site : <URL> .
Kayak ( and other web sites ) state you should fill in the data as it appears on your passport or other government ID . Having said that , I often see people next to me in line with long non-English names that have obviously been truncated on their boarding passes for want of space . I would expect a small amount of extra hassle , but nothing serious . That 's what happened to my colleague who comes from a region where people have only one name .
That is more or less correct . Tickets are available starting 5 days before departure and have to be bought in person . Travel agencies can act as a proxy to buy on your behalf , but they also have to physically go to the train station to buy your ticket . I would guess this agency 's specification of dates has been simply padded a bit to cover things like holidays , weekends or such that might delay buying or sending tickets .
This can not be answered in absolute terms since the availability of tickets is not always given . Currently , for example , <URL> . There is , to my knowledge , no limitations who can get tickets to these shows , as long as they are available at all . As Ilya noted , <URL> in late 2012 how you can get standby-tickets by waiting outside of the studio .
IGN produces several series of maps covering the whole of France . For hiking , I always use TOP 25 maps ( 1:25000 scale ) . You can <URL> ( Grenoble is <URL> ) , have them print a specific area on demand ( only slightly more expensive and convenient if you want an area that is in between two maps of the regular series ) or <URL> ( the system had many problems at the beginning and it is still somewhat difficult to get around but it 's all there ) . I do n't know about using the site on the go or printing/downloading , I always get paper maps before serious hikes . There are also two other options that I never used . TOP 100 are less detailed but I believe that they have more touristic information ( trails , mountain huts , it 's all there on the TOP 25 maps of course but it 's so detailed that you sometimes need more effort to figure things out ) . TOP 75 maps are new and especially designed for hiking . Unlike the other two , they are not available for the whole country but there is one covering <URL> . Obviously it 's not online but other than that , it could be a good choice for your trip . There are also apparently some mobile applications ( more information in French <URL> and <URL> ) allowing you to download these data and use them on a GPS/mobile device but I never tried any of them .
end question
start question
What class of travel is suitable for a woman travelling alone on Indian railways ?
Non-airconditioned classes tend to have less strict ticket checks starting with the lowest class and gradually increasing till the highest class . Unreserved coaches are usually jam-packed with no place to sleep ; you often have to travel standing even at night and not advised . Three-tier non-AC ( three bunk beds in one ' column ' ) and second class / two-tier non-AC ( also called sleeper class ; two bunk beds in one ' column ' ) is the most common class of travel and it is safe for women if travelling in a group . Air-conditioned classes tend to have stricter staff supervision , ticket checking , and more numerous police patrols . ( First class non-AC enjoys the same benefits too . ) Although AC coaches are more expensive , for solo women travellers it might be worth the peace-of-mind . Look out whether the destinations you want to travel to/from are serviced by ' Duronto Express ' or ' Garib Rath ' named trains as these offer air-conditioned coaches at non-AC prices , and travel almost non-stop between destinations thus sometimes getting you up to a day earlier than other trains ( which means , one less day spent overnight ) . For solo women travellers , safety in second/sleeper class depends on what region you are travelling in : as a rough guide , most trains running or originating south India are ' safer ' than ones running or originating in north India . Rather than outright theft , what will probably be of greater concern for solo women travellers would be getting stared at or harassed by men trying to hit on you ; it 's a sad fact but it happens more in the north than it does in the south . If available , check whether there are women-only or ' ladies compartments ' on the train you 're travelling in . Cases of theft or robbery are much more common in the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar-Madhya Pradesh region than they are anywhere else . In case issues arise , contacting the ticket checker ( known as ' TTE ' on Indian trains , will help to know this term in case you want to ask someone where he is ; ' TTE ' stands for ' Train Ticket Examiner ' ) the best thing to do . TTEs are higher ranking officials , usually speak English well enough to be understandable at the very least , and will be able to coordinate with railway police personnel onboard if so required .
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
Here are my experiences changing two letters of my last name : First and foremost , always keep a translated copy of the document that explains your name change . Just in case . In my case , it was actually not even a notarized copy . After I got a new passport , I had to get a new residence permit with a new name ( I was living in Germany with an Azerbaijani passport back then ) , but that was a very straightforward process . I also had to get my drivers renewed , also quite straightforward . I still have my diploma with my old name , but it was not an issue when I was applying for grad schools in US . I however supplied a copy of the document explaining my name change . While living in US , I had a social security number with my old name , got that replaced with no problems as well . Overall I do n't remember having any issues due to my name change , so I would say do n't worry about it .
They mean the <URL> which is commonly used in Pakistan for inter-city transport . Image Credit : <URL> Here is one in action :
" Airline transit passengers travelling with a stopover at Dubai Airport ( or other UAE airport ) who do not leave the terminal building , do not need a UAE visa since they are not entering the UAE . " Taken from <URL> Moreover " Transit passengers stopping at Dubai International Airport for a minimum of 8 hours and meeting certain conditions mentioned below are eligible for obtaining a 96-hour transit visa . " from <URL> So technically you CAN NOT and therefore need not apply for a transit visa
I found the answer in the in-flight magazine ! Aircalin class as long-haul their flights to Japan and Korea . These flights get the full catering service , as well as an enhanced selection of films on the A330 . Flights to New Zealand , Australia and the surrounding islands are not classed as long haul . However , they do still have some catering , which is nice ! For an evening flight from Australia , it 's something like a wrap or a sandwich , a small salad and a bit of dessert . There 's also a drinks trolley , which is complementary for everything except champagne . On the medium haul flights , if it 's an A330 there are some films , tv shows , music etc , along with quite a bit of information on New Caledonia . If it is n't an A330 , then there 's just a fixed selection of TV shows broadcast .
You need an UK entry clearance before you leave Denmark or your carrier will refuse to board you . It does not matter that you have a Danish work permit , it is entirely governed by what type of passport you hold . For your question about the difference between ' visa ' and ' entry clearance ' . An ' entry clearance ' is what they will put in your passport if your application is successful . Americans , Canadians , etc who apply at the border get an ' entry certificate ' , or ' leave to enter ' . For your question about getting a long-term general visitor visa , if you are successful they will give you one valid for 6 months . If you build up about 5 or 6 of those AND you show them a viable need for visiting the UK over a long period of time , they will consider a longer term . A long-term visitor for ordinary tourism will not work . Adding : take note that if you apply for a long-term visitor visa , they will keep the extra money you paid and issue you the standard 6 month visa anyway .
I think you have to look a little closer at your page that claims widespread acceptance . each entry is a single claim ( supported only by a photo of an entry stamp page ) of one person who has managed to get into that country using a World Passport . Many of the claims are obvious fakes and the photos are not of entry stamps . So for most countries , only a handful of people in the history of the passport have been successful with it . Most of those could simply be due to an immigration official not paying attention . If you look at <URL> you will find a much more realistic assessment . Many countries and territories have stated that they do not recognize the World Passport because it is not issued by a competent government authority , and thus does not meet the definition of a passport . As a result , travelling on a World Passport has never been easy . By 1975 , Garry Davis [ founder of World Service Authority ] had already been imprisoned 20 times for his attempts to cross international borders with nothing but a World Passport . The United States Department of State 's official position on the World Passport is that it is just a booklet issued by a private organisation upon payment of a fee , and not a passport.As early as 1991 , the US Air Transport Association specifically included the World Passport in a training film as an example of unacceptable travel papers . In the United Kingdom , the Criminal Records Bureau of the United Kingdom 's Home Office states that registered bodies should not accept the World Passport as a proof of identity , warning that " a fake ' World Passport ' can be purchased online by members of the public and should not be confused with a genuine passport " . EDIT : If you follow the links where the WSA claims that the passports are officially accepted , many of them are letters in which the country says it accepts documents issued by the WSA as an identify document . An identity document is not a travel document , and wo n't necessarily get you into a country .
As was explained in the comments : The way that all the airline booking systems work , it is not possible to have people on different booking ( fare ) classes on the same ticket . If you have two people on the same flights in the same booking classes , it 's fine . If you have two people on the same flights but different booking classes ( could be business and economy , or even just flexible vs non-flexible economy ) , then they must be on different tickets and PNRs . You therefore need to make two different bookings for you , one for the people in one booking class ( + cabin ) , one for the people on the same flight but in the other booking class . Your best bet in this case is to skip the internet , and talk to ( shock horror ! ) a person . Be that a travel agent , or the airline 's booking line , either should work . They will create the two itineraries for you , hold them while you confirm you 're happy and double check that everything else is the same , then ticket the two for you . They should also be able to attach notes to indicate the bookings are linked . Oh , and one thing to be aware of , because you 'll have two bookings , if there 's a problem with the flight and it gets cancelled , you will almost certainly have to speak with another human . Otherwise , you may find that you and your wife are re-routed one way , your kids another , because the automated re-booking system wo n't necessarily know to keep the two together because they 're on different bookings . Note that if by " mixed-class tickets " what you means was the more common " one way in economy , return in business " or something like that , then many ( but not all ) online flight booking systems will be able to sell you the ticket , as will the airline or a travel agent .
Having a visa for India does not allow you access to Nepal and conversely having a visa for Nepal does not allow you access to India . Nepal and India are two separate countries . The fact that they offer each others citizens visa free entry does not waive the rules for other nationalities . To visit Nepal , you will need to meet Nepal 's entry requirements for your nationality .
Yes , it 's only relevant in the US , although in the EU the equivalent ( more or less ) rule is EU Regulation 261/2004 . Technically it no longer exists . From the <URL> : The term " Rule 240 " refers to a rule that existed before airline deregulation . There is no longer an actual Rule 240 . The term , as it is now used , refers to each airline ´ s " conditions of carriage " policy . You would need to contact the airlines to obtain this . And then there 's also a relevant <URL> : Federal Aviation Administration Rule 240 mandated that an airline with a delayed or canceled flight had to transfer passengers to another carrier if the second carrier could get passengers to the destination more quickly than the original airline . The original rule , referring to a federal requirement before airline deregulation in 1978 , is long-obsolete ; however , the major US airlines have filed " conditions of carriage " with the U.S. Department of Transportation guaranteeing their similar provisions . These provisions vary from airline to airline , and generally apply only to delays that are absolutely the airline 's fault , such as mechanical delays , and not to " force majeure " events such as weather , strikes , or " acts of God " .
She will need to apply for a non-immigrant visa just like an adult Russian would , using the <URL> form , which is done <URL> . She will be required to go to an interview and have her fingers scanned as part of the application process . Below 14 years children travelling with a parent ( who has their own visa ) or a school group , would be <URL> . Regarding the actual flying-there part , <URL> by the airlines for the purposes of solo travel . The unaccompanied minor programs are really designed for kids up to about 11 - they basically nanny the kid the whole way until hand-over . You CAN register 12-17 year olds as unaccompanied minors if you think such treatment is warranted . In this case , at 16 , I ca n't think of anything worse . There are <URL> of 12-17 year olds getting hassled for travelling alone by either airline staff or immigration , mainly due to incompetence and not knowing the rules . You should definitely make sure she has a parental consent letter allowing the solo travel , signed by both parents . This will not only smooth over these bumps should they occur , but may be required by Russian emigration laws ( see Robert 's link in comments ) . Good luck !
Actually it seems that the ticket distribution moved to Members of Congress only to combat <URL> going back to Clinton era . And then under George W. Bush under the claim that <URL> : '' The White House welcomes large numbers of visitors , consistent with previous administrations , '' said the White House spokesman , Ari Fleischer . '' The tours are free . We discourage the practice of having vendors or outside groups make a profit by charging unsuspecting tourists , including any tour that would charge money for access to the White House even as part of a larger tour . '' The unguided tours were still allowed on a first come first served basis by waiting in line : They recommend that visitors get their feet in the front door by standing in line at the White House Visitors ' Center ( the line sometimes starts before 5 a.m. ) or by contacting their representatives in Congress , who receive tickets for guided tours for their constituents . ( The public tours are unguided . ) You can take a look at <URL> which has a lot of good references on the changes to tours over the years but ticket distribution went completely to Members of Congress in 2003 as an additional " security " measure following the 9/11 attacks .
As far as I understand , the rule that the <URL> is unrelated to the visa requirement . The ESTA itself is <URL> , or up to 2 years if that comes up first . The passport , whether it 's associated with a visa or with an ESTA , <URL> it is issued by one of the <URL> . Almost all ESTA countries are exempt . Check with <URL> to make sure .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
I was about to ask why you did n't just check the website , but ticket fares are surprisingly well-hidden and there 's no actual mention of age limits on the English site ( update below ) . So , let 's check <URL> , which has this to say about age limits on trains in Europe : Children travel at a reduced fare ... The age limit for children varies by country from under 12 to under 16 ( and in one case , under 17 ) , so see the list of child age limits below . ... although the child rate is n't always 50 % off the adult fare . It mentions several other things to watch out for , including the fact that adult fares are sometimes cheaper and that it can get tricky when you book international tickets . I highly suggest reading the entire page . Anyway , the site goes on to <URL> , so without further ado : Austria : Children under 6 free , 6-14 inclusive ( = under 15 ) pay the child fare . Since I could n't find anything on the English site , I did some digging on the original ÖBB site and found the official definition : Kinder sind Reisende zwischen 6 und 14 Jahre -- ab dem 6 . Geburtstag bis einen Tag vor dem 15 . Geburtstag . Handbuch Source : <URL> , A. 1.2.1.1 - Kind , gültig ab 01.01.2016 Loosely translated this confirms Seat61 : child fares apply from a child 's 6th birthday up to the day before its 15th birthday . Note that a variety of family offers are available and international tickets also have cheaper rates for those below 26 . Rates and reductions are listed in <URL> ( PDF )
According to the European Aviation Safety Agency , a <URL> on child car seats for flights states the following : Regarding the use of a car seat as an acceptable child restraint device , this is regulated under the Regulation on Air Operations , through Annex IV ( Part CAT ) , specifically CAT.IDE.A .205 . The basis for the provision on child restraint devices is JAR-OPS 1 guidance material . To conclude , the proposed examples for acceptable child restraint devices include car seats , and item 2 of AMC1 CAT.IDE.A .205 lists the standards with which the CRD should comply . This includes the UN standard ECE R 44 , -03 or later series - this is commonly indicated on the car seat 's label . Information regarding this standard is available from a car seat manufacturer <URL> . Warning : from April 2008 , all child car seats that were manufactured before 1995 and approved to the ECE R44/01 and 44/02 standard are no longer legal and must not be used or sold . Only seats displaying the European Standard orange label , indicating approval to the Standard to ECE R44/03 , ECE R 44/04 or i-Size ( UN R129 ) may be legally used . It appears that the current standard version is R44/04 and should look like this : Source : maxi-cosi . com ( external link from above site ) Note that the FAQ also states that you must check with each individual airline : In the first instance , passengers wishing to use their car seat as a child restraint device ( CRD ) on board an aircraft should contact the airline or travel agency through which the ticket has been booked , in order to obtain information on which CRDs are acceptable and also to ensure that the car seat can be installed properly on the seat of the particular aircraft with which they will fly . For example , BA <URL> : If you have paid for a separate seat for your infant , or your child is under 3 years , you can bring your own forward facing car seat to secure into the aircraft seat . The car seat : can only be used for infants over six months old and children up to three years old must be designed to be secured by means of a normal aircraft single lap strap and face the same direction as the passenger seat on which it is positioned must have a 5-point restraining harness must not exceed the dimensions of the aircraft seat , and should fit into an area of 45cm x 45cm ( 17.5 ins x 17.5 ins ) must be strapped in place ensuring that the adult lap strap buckle does not lie directly over any part of the frame or under the structure of the car type seat after tightening
In a nutshell Only base fare tickets allow stopovers ( 途中下車 , tochū gesha ) ; tickets for additional fees such as limited express fees and seat reservation fees do not . In addition , only base fare tickets for trips of over 100 kilometers allow stopovers . However , base fare tickets for travel within one of <URL> ( Tokyo , Osaka , Fukuoka , Niigata , Sendai ) do not allow stopovers , regardless of the length of the trip . The ticket must be used within its validity period ; when the validity period of a ticket is over , it ceases to be valid regardless of whether you have reached your final destination . ( However it is possible to obtain a refund for the unused section if it is over 100 kilometers , minus a handling fee of 220 yen . ) Backtracking is strictly not allowed , even by just one station . You must always travel in the same direction . Example Suppose I am in Tokyo and i want to go to Hiroshima . However , I would also like to spend some time in Kyoto on the way . Because Tokyo to Hiroshima is 894 kilometers , a base fare ticket will allow stopovers , and moreover it will be valid for six days , so I can spend at most five nights in Kyoto . The first thing I do when leaving Tokyo on day 1 is buy a base fare ticket from Tokyo to Hiroshima , which costs 11,660 yen . Also , because Tokyo to Kyoto is a long trip , I decide to take the Shinkansen , so I buy a separate ticket to pay the additional Shinkansen fees . I can buy an unreserved , reserved , or Green ticket ; say I buy an unreserved one , it 's 4,870 yen . When entering the Shinkansen gates at Tokyo station , I insert both tickets together , and likewise when exiting at Kyoto . Upon exit at Kyoto , my base fare ticket is returned . I do not use it again until leaving Kyoto for Hiroshima on day 6 . ( If I do any JR travel while in Kyoto , I buy individual tickets or use an IC card . ) When leaving Kyoto on day 6 , I again buy an unreserved Shinkansen ticket to Hiroshima , which costs 4,090 yen . I again use both tickets to enter the ticket gates in Kyoto . Upon exit at Hiroshima , since my trip is now over , both tickets are retained . I paid a total of 20,620 yen . Had I bought Tokyo-Kyoto and Kyoto-Hiroshima tickets separately , I would have paid 23,650 yen , so I saved over 3,000 yen , the price of a very good meal or a very cheap hotel night . This example illustrates the basic principle : the base fare for an entire trip ( here , Tokyo to Hiroshima ) can be paid all at once , within some constraints , whereas any additional fees must be paid on a per-train basis . When are additional fees necessary ? A base fare ticket alone allows travel on local ( 普通 ) and rapid ( 快速 ) trains , in ordinary class and on non-reserved seats . In all other cases , additional fees are required : On express ( 急行 ) and limited express ( 特急 ) trains , including Shinkansens and the overnight Sunrise Seto/Izumo , for all seats . However , no additional fees are required for ordinary non-reserved seats between Miyazaki and Miyazaki Airport , between Aomori and Shin-Aomori , and between Shin-Yubari and Shintoku . On reserved and Green seats in local and rapid trains . Keep in mind that some rapid trains are <URL> . How to buy ? Doing this requires to be able to buy base fare tickets and additional fee tickets separately , which is usually done at <URL> , but can also be done at ticket machines and online . In fact , JR East 's English reservation service issues reserved seat tickets only , and it is always necessary to pay for the base fare separately ( possibly with a rail pass ) . JR Hokkaido 's English service , however , does not allow this . Some useful words at the ticket office : Base fare ticket : 乗車券 ( jōshaken ) Shinkansen : 新幹線 Limited express ticket : 特急券 ( tokkyūken ) Non-reserved seat : 自由席 ( jiyūseki ) Reserved seat : 指定席 ( shiteiseki ) Green seat : グリーン席 ( gurīnseki ) GranClass seat : グランクラス席 ( gurankurasuseki ) Reserved seat ticket : 指定席券 ( shiteisekiken ) " Only " : のみ ( nomi ) Today : 今日 ( kyō ) Tomorrow : 明日 ( ashita ) April 20 : ４月２０日 , or just 4/20 or 4.20 ( change accordingly ) In order to describe the desired ticket ( s ) efficiently , I find it useful to make a quick diagram on the notes application of my phone . For example for the Tokyo-Kyoto-Hiroshima itinerary above , if I only want to buy the Tokyo-Kyoto Shinkansen ticket at Tokyo station together with the base fare ticket , I do the following ( station names can also be written in English ) . To buy the Kyoto-Hiroshima Shinkansen ticket at Kyoto , proceed normally but mention that you want to buy the limited express ticket only ( 特急券のみ ) . For unreserved seats , only the day of usage is necessary , and not the departure time of a particular train : unreserved seat tickets are valid for one day , and can be used on any train on that day . Validity period of base fare tickets The validity period of a base fare ticket is a function of the distance traveled , as shown for example by <URL> in the headers section of a displayed route in the search results page . Non-integer distances are always rounded up . The validity period of
Tatkal tickets are exactly the same as normal tickets , except on a priority quota . You do n't need any special documents to book or travel with those tickets . ( Source : My dad 's general manager at Indian Railways ) With the changes in rules , you need to provide ID number of any document such as PAN Card or Driving Licence or Passport of one of the passengers in the reservation form and produce the same to the TT when he/she comes to check your ticket in the train .
From at least <URL> : Whether clocks stay set on " ship " time or are changed as the vessel moves through time zones depends on the ship , the itinerary , and the time of year so it 'll depend on the company you use , and the zone of the ship and where it travels during the tour . Most ships adhere to the time zone they are in and clocks are set forward or back to adhere to local time . Passengers are also advised to change their watches to the ' correct ' time -- there is usually a reminder card on your pillow before you go to bed . However , not all ships do that , particularly in the Caribbean ! Some ships stay on " ship " time , which can be different from " island " time . So the best authority is the ship itself , and they 'll know from experience that people get it wrong , and will do their best to ensure you do n't miss the boat . From friends who have travelled on a cruise ship in the Mediterranean , breakfast and lunch could be literally ' whenever we wanted ' - there was often a buffet . <URL> has seating times for dinner that you can request , and for breakfast , say , on their ship <URL> : Breakfast times vary daily , so please check the Personal Navigator -- the Disney Cruise Line daily newsletter detailing all there is to see and do -- for specific dates and times while onboard . So yes , times can change , and meal times can change accordingly as well , so in the end you 'll have to check with your operator and whether they have any special time-operations on the ship you 're travelling on .
end question
start question
Boats from Manaus , Brazil to Leticia , Colombia ?
I just found an answer on <URL> ( Portuguese ) . There are boats that take you from Manaus to Leticia . You just buy the ticket directly in the boat , there are no agencies . The schedule is a bit irregular but as a rule of thumb they go out every other day . The journey takes around 5 to 7 days . If two boats depart on the same day ( apparently it can happen ) you get 50 % discount . You have to bring your own hammock to sleep . Be careful . According to the text in the link Manaus can be dangerous due to drug traffic . Meanwhile I found some more information on this <URL> . Apparently it 's possible to negotiate with the boat owner and get a better deal for the ticket . The trip is actually to Tabatinga and not to Leticia . But these are sister cities . You can walk from one the other as you can see <URL> . You can get more information by calling the Manaus harbour : PORTO DE MANAUS : Phone : +55 (92) 3622-1330 Fax : +55 (92) 3233 2689 . According to <URL> page these are the boats that make this connection : SAGRADO CORAÇÃO DE JESUS OLIVEIRA V DOM MANOEL MANOEL MONTEIRO II VOYAGER III M. MONTEIRO FÊNIX VOYAGER IV ITAPURANGA And finally a <URL> and <URL> where you can search several routes from Manaus . They even show departure dates and contacts from the boat owner . Making reservations on-line is not possible .
Searching for " <URL> " returns hundreds of forum posts about this very topic , spread over several English-speaking countries . This leads me to believe that this is a global custom , rather than just a Brazilian quirk . On a personal level , the aversion to brushing teeth in the kitchen is explained by several reasons : It 's unusual . Likewise eating in the bathroom is a bit strange . Different levels of cleanliness between the kitchen and the bathroom . Watching someone brush teeth is rarely a pleasant sight . That 's the reason why Hollywood movies never show people using toothpaste and why everyone brushes with their mouth closed .
Talgo train has been operating in Kazakhstan <URL> , for now there are 5 trains in Kazakhstan , and the route Almaty - Astana is <URL> , and , according to the most <URL> , it goes every day . According the <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian and Kazakh , to search , use ( Almaty ) to ( Astana ) ) , the first available tickets for this are on August , 2nd . And this site also claims that this train goes every day , so you can try to get last-chance-tickets ( some tickets can be returned by people who change their minds about using this train ) . <URL> , if you want to get to the Astana earlier than this variant .
I usually plan my trips with Google Maps . Put both address and click on the public transportation . In your case : <URL> This is a 2 hour travel time for 27 miles and about US$ 5.00 price ( two fares if you get bus and train ) . Notice that you can get the train from the airport parking directly instead of picking up a bus first . You may think about US$ 74.00 for a taxi from this site : <URL>
I believe if I book online and travelling to another Schengen country , I would not need to show ID and only the boarding ticket ? That depends on the airline 's policy ( and to some degree , the gate agent 's knowledge of that policy ) . The EU no longer requires that airlines check for their passengers ' identification so long as they do not check in luggage . Many airlines ( SAS , Norwegian ) do not care and do not check in line with regulation . Ryanair , however , systematically checks . I regularly fly between Sweden where I live , the Netherlands , Germany , Spain , and Italy and I never have to show my ID . But if the airline does ask ... However , as a whole , being in a different country without an ID is not recommended and as Alexander points out , some countries such as Spain and France do require you carry some form of identification at all times e.g. national id card or driver 's license
The best cheaper way I 've found to get from Fez to Algiers is flying via Barcelona . As of April 2016 , Fez - Barcelona - Fez is around $ 35-50 on Ryanair , and Barcelona - Algiers - Barcelona is around $ 110 on Vueling , for a total price of $ 150 ( round trip ) .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
You can take the <URL> ( Airport Limousine Bus ) direct from Haneda ( International Terminal ) to Narita ( Terminal 1 then Terminal 2 ) for 3,100 JPY . It comes fairly regularly ( roughly hourly ) and takes around 95 minutes . The earliest departure is 06:25 . Alternatively you can take the train . The best route depends on time of arrival , but your main options will be : Route A Haneda - > Shinagawa ( Keikyu Main/Airport Line Rapid Ltd. . Exp. , 13 mins ) Shinagawa - > Narita ( Narita Express , 68 mins ) Total route cost : 3,600 JPY . Route B Haneda ( through Sengakuji , Oshiage and Aoto ) - > Narita ( it 's one physical line but changes name across the journey , starting out as the Keikyu Main/Airport Line and changing to Toei Asakusa Line , then Keisei Oshiage Line and finally Keisei Narita Sky Access , 94 minutes ) Total route cost : 1,760 JPY If you want specific timings to plan your train journey and see which of the routes is better for you , check out the always-useful <URL> website . Having taken the bus I strongly recommend it - very comfortable , spacious and air-conditioned . What 's more , you can see some incredible urban views on the elevated express ways and drops you right at departures at Narita .
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
The simplest and cheapest way to get to Khao San Road from Suvarnabhumi Airport is to take the Airport Rail Link ( ARL ) City Line train to Makkasan Station ( 20 minutes , 35 baht ) and then a # 556 bus at the bus stop immediately in front of the doors to the station ( 35 baht ) . Do n't take an Airport Express train - you 'll pay a lot extra to save 5 minutes . ( As of end of 2010 , the # 556 no longer runs from the Airport Transportation Centre . This is also the bus you should take in order to get a safe GOVERNMENT LICENCED bus from Southern Bus Terminal to destinations like Samui or Phuket . )
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
In general , a citizen ca n't be denied to enter his own country that 's sort of the meaning of being a citizen . Since you still have a valid passport there should be absolutely no problems . You are not a visitor , you are a citizen and all you need to do is convince the border guard you are a citizen . Even an expired passport would quite probably work but in this case , no problems . Forget the US passport .
Apparently , it 's complicated . The safest border crossing is Puerto Carreño to Puerto Ayacucho by boat . Before you go in Colombia , do these : DIAN ( Colombian customs department ) to make sure all your car papers are in order . Venezuelan consulate to get a form with all the current requisites for crossing your vehicle ( <URL> ) . Later [ the site which I am referencing from ] learned that we needed two additional papers : a Venezuelan third-party insurance ( easy to obtain , more on that below ) and an invoice of the purchase of our car . Immigration to stamp your passport . SIJIN department of Police , to get a VIN rub of your car 's chassis number . Then buy a Venezuelan insurance and go to SENIAT , Venzuelan customs . Once done , boat over , then 100 kms to Puerto Ayacucho to get your passport stamped ( three months for Europeans , free of charge ) . Reference from <URL>
You need the drivers license from your home country an <URL> that serves as a translation . Even if there is no legal requirement for this ( I found conflicting information on this ) , you can not rely that the policeman who stops you in the road nor the clerk at the car rental knows English well enough to read your US license . There are different ages required depending on the rental agency . <URL> you to be 21 , <URL> .
There are no direct connection that I 'm aware of . Your best bet is : From Ciampino to Roma Termini ( train station ) using the <URL> . The bus ticket is 3.90 Euros . From Roma Termini take the metro B line to Piramide stop From Piramide ( aka Porto San Paolo ) take the <URL>
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
<URL> goes from Motobu ( 本部 ) to Kagoshima ( 鹿児島 ) around twice weekly , but the price difference is marginal : <URL> : & yen ; 15,200 in 2nd class <URL> : & yen ; 14,300 in 2nd class And by remarkable coincidence , the <URL> are precisely the same .
end question
start question
Should I book in advance cooking course in Thailand ?
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
Based upon what you wrote , you should create an account at <URL> and use it to apply for a ' <URL> ' . Your husband does not qualify as a family sponsor , so you would fill out the form like in this image ... <URL> Should i book tickets before the visa will that make any difference on the decision ? It is a very bad idea to purchase tickets in advance of a visa application . It tells the decision-maker that you did not read <URL> and probably do not understand the rules . You also undergo the risk of cancelling tickets in the event your application is not successful or it takes a long time for them to reach a decision . Here 's a screen shot of the relevant <URL> ... <URL> And finally , in the remarks section of the form , you put down that you are visiting your husband and include his entry clearance number . If you have problems substantiating your marriage , then use ' partner ' everywhere . Your husband / ' partner ' should write a letter to the consulate supporting your visit ( naming you as wife or partner ) and you should include it with your application . They prefer wet signatures if possible . It 's ok to explain in the remarks section why you do not have a license as long as the explanation is reasonable .
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
There are several options in Thailand , but in general first of all this here : Diving in Thailand is - specially opposed to other locations in South East Asia such as Indonesia and the Philippines - not the best location to go to . Coral bleaching and overcrowding has severely deteriorated Thailand as a beach and dive location over the last 8 years , and even former AAA-spots as the Similan Islands but also Koh Thao in the Gulf have suffered a lot from rising water temperatures during individual record temperature summers . That said , it remains a matter of what one is used to in order to assess what is good or not . If you have been only diving in a muddy lake , Thailand is great . Once you have been in Indonesia , you will be surprised at the difference in reef health and how overcrowded Thailand actually is . First of all , for the lazy , there is a aquarium diving in the <URL> . It specializes on Shark diving . The advantage here is that you can see several types of sharks that you will never see otherwise in Thailand . On top of that , the Siam Paragon mall and the aquarium is something nice to see while in Bangkok . Ideal if you are on a weekend in Bangkok . Also you can go here around the year . Since you will not find other dedicated shark diving in Thailand such as in South Africa or Australia ( with cages , great whites and the like ) , any dive resort in Thailand can take you to locations that are most likely to be able to see sharks . The question is rather then for the best dive locations in this season in general . The best location in Thailand is by far the <URL> , however between February and May . You can then also find Whale sharks there . But you have to go on a live-aboard since it is so remote . However , and since the west coast of Thailand is worst in the summer since the visibility is very poor , many liveaboards do not operate and some specially famous dive locations are even inaccessible . If you do not mind this and find an operator , you can have a quite private experience however . On the other hand , in locations like Phuket , Krabi and the places inbetween such as Koh Racha and and Koh Pipi are also not ideal - again the overcrowding and the poor visibility . Also , since they are so close to land , overfishing has impacted specially the shark population . So the Gulf of Thailand is your best bet for this season , and there the more remote locations . Typical dive holiday locations in the Gulf Thailand are <URL> , along with the smaller islands around the region . Due to its remoteness , Koh Thao is your best bet , most of the hotels there are dedicated dive resorts . While there was also a coral bleaching during 2010 , it seems that <URL> since last year . Koh Pangan is a bit larger and can still reach Koh Thao dive sites by boat since the islands are only 35km away from each other , so you can stay in either of the resorts . I would make the decision dependent on the resort , it 's costs and the flights that you can get which matter more at this point since this can have a major impact if you are bound to arrive and depart on specific dates . And if you care to not overspend or not to sleep in a shack . So I would recommend to first look for hotels on both islands and see if those have an attached dive center . It will be easier for you than going to one hotel without a dive center and then having to commute to one every day . Transport is not ideal on these islands .
Tom 's answer is great , but let me add my two cents as a foreigner who lives several years in Thailand . Etiquette highly depends on location , on who you are , and who are you greeting with . In a business environment like greeting your colleagues in the office , handshaking is okay , because of the office culture is mostly borrowed from the West . If you 're a tourist in a tourist place , the locals would normally expect that you are not familiar with Thai language or etiquette . So a plain " hello " would be sufficient . It is great if you are familiar with the basics of the Thai culture , it shows that you 've expended some time learning . People would certainly notice it , and and this would raise your status quickly . But doing it in a wrong way is worse than doing nothing . One of the most common misunderstanding about doing wai is , the higher the position of a person you are speaking with ( related to yours ) , the higher you raise your hands and the lower you nod your head . Look at the picture below . A young man is greeting an older woman . His fingertips almost touch his nose , and he is not looking straight in the eyes . On the contrary , a woman is doing rap wai ( " receiving wai " ) . The same also applies to greeting police officers since they have high social status . Personally , it took me several years ( ! ) to get rid of looking straight in similar situations . <URL> Image courtesy of <URL> In a local shop or a restaurant , the situation is the opposite : you are the high-status customer , so doing a deep wai looks pretty awkward . Yet another problem I noticed -- do n't combine wai with English greeting " hello " . It looks very unusual . Pronunciation . To practice speaking " sawat dee khrup/kha " , just visit Google translate and listen to the phrase wearing a headset : Here 's the button to press : <URL> <URL> -- if you 're male ; <URL> -- if you 're female ;
First , make sure you are allowed to leave the airport with your passport/visa . Visa on arrival is available for many countries , but costs US$ 28 for 30 days . But that 's only certain countries , other ones are more complicated . <URL> is limited , but suggests the following sites : The Museum of Islamic Art , Doha Souq Waqif : the traditional old marketplace of Qatar . Has many good restaurants , especially at night time . Also sells many national products - bargaining is recommended . The Pearl : a man-made island connected to Doha by a bridge . You can find a big variety of restaurants and shops , mainly in the high range . Villaggio Mall : a spectacular Venetian style shopping mall with a canal and gondolas as well . A huge variety of shops from casual to luxury . Mathaf : The arab museum of modern art Katara : Cultural village which is home to many international and Arab restaurants , a beautiful beach , and holds many cultural events . Definitely a place to see . Aqua park : Aquatic Funfair . Personally I 'd see maybe one thing , do it properly , and then go hunt out strange foods and experiences . Middle Eastern cuisine is everywhere , and in many forms -- kebabs , breads , hummus , the list goes on . Do n't be afraid to venture into the Souqs looking for a meal ; it will be a unique experience in an authentic setting , and although some of the places you see may look rundown , that 's just the area in general , and the food will be probably be quite good . Be advised that many of the restaurants in the Souqs ( as well as the shops ) shut down during the afternoon hours . If you are in a funny kind of mood , you can try a McArabia -- McDonald 's Middle Eastern sandwich available only in the region . -- <URL> Another thing that I did in Dubai , and apparently they offer in Qatar as well is dune-bashing - riding around in big Landcruisers across the desert - it was AMAZING fun ! However , after my suggestion of it to a relative went bad - do n't do it if you get at all carsick ;)
The <URL> of the airport website says : L'heure limite d'enregistrement est fixée à 20 minutes avant l'heure du départ du vol pour les vols domestiques . Elle est portée à 40 minutes pour les vols européens . So , check-in ends 20 min before flight departure for domestic flights , and 40 minutes before departure for european flights . You can also try to call the airport at +33 2 98 94 30 30
I suggest <URL> I tend to avoid having to rent cars , but the few times I have , I found these guys to be the cheapest . They source car hires from multiple providers and , consistently , for me , have been cheaper than renting with the individual providers themselves .
Banff is about <URL> , and is worth visiting if you 're not going to be back in Calgary anytime soon . The normal list of Calgary attractions : Calgary Zoo Canada Olympic Park Spruce Meadows Telus World of Science Fort Calgary More information : <URL>
In the US hotels I stay in , room service dining typically includes a service charge and delivery charge with wording such as : All Room Service Orders are Subject to State and Local Taxes , a Delivery Charge of $ 3.50 , and a Service Charge of 22 % . The Service Charge Includes Gratuity . Being the USA , there will normally be an extra space for yet another tip . Feel free to draw a line through it .
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
Yes , just apply for it with a few days buffer either side . I 've done this twice . The first time I entered as expected as it was very much a holiday . The second time I was travelling up Finland to the arctic circle , and then crossing there . The buses from Rovaniemi were not every day , so I ended up bussing to Ivalo , and then to Murmansk , getting there a couple of days later than planned . The only confusion at the border was that I was a Kiwi arriving on a Russian bus company from somewhere in Finland . And on a Russian business visa . But once the border guy was over that , there were no problems . Point is , I arrived a couple of days into the period my visa was valid for . And there is no problem with that - it 's just a maximum period of validity , not a fixed arrival/exit date . All websites will tell you - DO NOT book flights before applying for the visa , in case you do n't get it . However if you want to in order to save money , you might still consider doing it - I certainly did the first time . It 's a calculated risk , if you 're going as a tourist , have no criminal issues or problems that may give them problems with giving you a visa , have an invite and have travel insurance , there 's very little theoretical chance of them denying you . However , stranger things have happened . Personally I never book accommodation more than a few days in advance - which has caused me some grief ( I got the very last bed at the hostel I 'm staying at in Seattle this weekend ) , but one thing to be aware of with Russia is that they often ask where you 're staying . Last time I was n't sure , and just put the 5 biggest cities I was likely going through . That worked fine , and the cities are n't listed on your actual visa . If you 're worried and are happy with hostels , you can always just book one with Hostelbookers and if you do n't get your visa , email them and cancel your booking . You only lose your 10 % deposit .
<URL> . Or for a picture version ( albeit comparing them to Australian plugs , but at least it shows you ) - <URL> . Basically , international outlet/plug types A and C , and they run at 220V/50Hz . Coming from the Netherlands , you will need an adaptor .
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
Assuming you 're also exluding mountains only accessible by <URL> , the highest one I 've heard of is <URL> ( 3438 m ) in Italy near the border to France . Here 's a <URL> . The most difficult/dangerous part can be seen at 1:40 - and you can see that it 's a very popular tour .
You can even get an IDP from AAA via Mail ! The application form is at <URL> I do n't know if they would mail it to Spain , but if you have someone in the US to go to them with the filled form and all the requirements ( passport photos and copy of drivers license ) he will get the IDP and can express mail it to you ! If not , your best chance is to just call the AAA . While you usually wo n't get any trouble without it , if something happens and you do n't have an IDP you are in trouble . Insurance companies are happy for any reason to save money . The police will also take a closer look after an accident .
So your flight is an international flight . The airport is fairly small , with just 5-6 restaurants , has wifi and opens officially at 4.30 am in the morning . To make sure , I 'd always check the advice of the airport 's website itself . In this case , the official <URL> says : It is advised that you arrive at the airport in plenty of time . The length of time prior to departure depends on the airline , so remember to check what time that applies to you . The usual attendance times are . On that advice , I 'd try and get there at least a bit earlier - but would consider risking it if it was me . But understand that if you are late and were n't there 90 min beforehand , the airline is not likely to be sympathetic :(
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
With regular NS trains ( intercity 's , sprinter 's and stoptrains ) booking in advance does not give you any discount . If you would travel with a NS HiSpeed train this could be the case , but there 's no direct HiSpeed connection between Eindhoven and Amsterdam , so it 's irrelevant to your journey . There 's a direct train between Eindhoven and Amsterdam Central Station which would cost you $ 17.90 one way . If you buy the ticket at the counter , instead of at the machine , you 'll have to pay an additional $ 0.5 . If you 're really tight on money you could look for someone who looks like a student and ask politely if you can travel " together " . 90 % off all students has a card which gives them and 3 fellow travellers a 40 % reduction on any train journey . Fellow travellers can make use of this system after 09:00 on weekdays , the whole day during weekends and also the whole day during the months July and August . When I was a student I 've had this question asked several times . When a conductor asked the other person why he had a ticket with 40 % discount , I would just say that we travelled together , making the discounted ticket valid .
end question
start question
When to buy plane tickets to get best rates ?
<URL> , it 's 54 days in advance . At least in 2013 it was . Quoting the article , [ They ] monitored 4,191,533 trips . For each trip -- that is , a flight from city A to city B on a specific date with a specific trip length -- we looked at prospective fares over about a 10 1/2 month booking window , ranging from 320 days in advance , to 1 day in advance , including every possible booking date in between . It adds up to a database of 1.3 billion air fares -- and a serious headache for those who were tasked with making sense of it !
TL ; DR : If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Detailed explanation , with pictures : The problem is that there is no single " the price " that goes up and down . On any given flight you can buy as many as a dozen different tickets , each at a different price . They carry different privileges -- eligible to earn frequent flyer miles , lower change fees , lounge access , seat selection included , less credits needed to upgrade , free meal , etc -- depending on the airline . Often , some or all of those privileges mean very little to you and you will just buy the cheapest one . When all of the absolutely cheapest ones are gone , you have to buy the next most expensive class , and that means you will pay more . So how do prices go up ? By the cheapest seats getting bought . How do they go down ? By those seats being cancelled and returned to the pool ( unlikely , since they have high change fees and are bought by people who have firm plans ) , by discount codes or overall " seat sales " being issued , or by seats being moved from one class to another . That last thing is called " yield management " and it is what some very smart people do for a living . They do n't want a plane to go out with an empty seat ( getting $ 0 for it ) but they do n't want to sell it to you 3 months in advance for $ 200 if somebody with an urgent need to travel would pay $ 1500 for it the week of the flight . So they might decide to move an unsold seat from the $ 1500 fare class to the $ 200 fare class , but only if they are sure that 's the only way they 'll sell it . You can see that they can go out with an empty seat 5 times , and the 6th time sell the seat for a premium , and still be ahead overall . They are pretty good at guessing how many " urgent needs " are likely to arise in a given week . And trust me , the holiday season is rich in " urgent needs " . The chances of cheaper seats being available right when everyone wants to fly are slim to none . There are ways to watch the fare classes on a given flight . For example Air Canada offers Tango , Tango Plus , Latitude , Discount Business , and Business . Tango and Tango plus actually have some smaller fare classes inside them . If you look at a random city pair on a random day , you will see something like this : You can see that already , on many of the flights , all of the Tango fares are gone . There are clearly two prices for Tango , and only one flight has the cheaper one left . Similarly there are 3 prices for Tango Plus . And so on . As it gets closer and closer , fares will disappear from some flights . Over time , you can get familiar with the patterns between two cities . You might notice that the 7am flight is alway last to lose its cheap fares , and wait till you see a pattern like this one before you buy . As always , it helps to be unusual . If you prefer a flight at a time of day most people do n't ( like 7am ) you can pay less . If you are n't trying to fly the Friday before Xmas , you 'll pay less . And so on . But look at the difference between Tango and Tango plus here . When all that 's left is $ 597 fares on every flight , they can have a 20 % off sale and bring it down to $ 477 - but you would have been better off with $ 364 in the first place . If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Update Nov 7th , two weeks later : Look what has now happened to that same YYZ-YVR flight on the same date , Dec 23rd : Every flight has gone up dramatically , except ( for some strange reason ) for the last flight of the day . Waiting a few weeks to book would have cost you hundreds of dollars . Let 's also look at a flight two weeks later ( the same distance from today as my first set of prices , but not a holiday ) See how much cheaper those Dec 23rd flights might have been before Oct 23rd , when I took the first screenshot ? The cheapest is 229 ( each way , before taxes and addons , but that 's not the point ) while today the cheapest for the 23rd is 374 , almost double , and if landing at 1am Vancouver time , 4 am body time , does n't seem feasible then it 's going to be $ 607 , almost triple . Ouch . I see no benefit to waiting ... but I plan to update this answer again in a few weeks :-) Update Nov 24th , two-and-a-bit weeks closer to Xmas : Still looking at YYZ-YVR on Friday Dec 23rd , same airline : Now it 's really awful . The cheapest is $ 607 , in fact some of the economy classes now being sold cost more than sitting in business class would cost ! Again let 's advance to some point as far away from now as Dec 23rd was when I started this . Say Jan 23rd . Wow ! Now some flights are as little as $ 199 ! Notice also that there are two less flights on Jan 23rd than on Dec 23rd . The airline has added as much capacity as it can for the route on t
Sloterdijk was a village out of Amsterdam but has now been gulped up by the city and is part of it . Just like the villages around London are part of Greater London . It is within the city bus system area and on those buses you can use the travel passes for the city . And depending on where you want to be in Amsterdam , the bus might well be faster than going by train and take a bus from the Central station . The <URL> will tell you door to door , your hotel to wherever you want to go , how to get there . You can even set it to ' no train ' to get that out of the results . When you arrive you can ask whether there still is a bus pass that allows travel on the NS trains ( national railways ) within the Amsterdam area . I will look further and update if I do find one . An OV chip seems a good investment but you need to realize that at the start of any train travel you need to have $ 20 on it , even for just a $ 2.20 ' within the city ' run . And it has to be a different OV chip for each of you , so as a couple you can be left with about $ 35 on your cards . Officially you can get a refund for that money , but it takes time and effort and you will always lose some money . The Amsterdam tourist information office site has a <URL> and non of them includes the train within Amsterdam , apart from the ' Schiphol return ' which you already found . An <URL> mentions renting a bicycle , which might suit you . It is cheaper than three bus or tram tickets per day , but it does include some effort . Riding is safe and helmets are not used by those using utility bikes as rentals mostly are . Dutch cyclist do only use helmets when going high speed or off road , as a rule , that means that if you want to rent a bike and peddle on the bike lanes , you can do so without helmets , which makes bike rental much easier for tourists . Helmets are not only not mandatory , they are also not often used .
Yes , there is , and yes , airlines do have a group discount . This depends on a lot of factors however . I know dive resorts who charter one whole airplane every 5 days since they change the complete occupancy of their quite remote resort each time . You will never know until you ask though since the availability of open seats in regular airplanes is a main driving factor for the price .
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
Taipei to Keelung is effectively a suburban service , there are trains every 15-20 minutes and reservations are not required ( or even possible for most trains ? ) . And even for long-distance trains , advance reservations are generally not necessary , unless you 're traveling at peak season ( eg . Chinese New Year ) or on some special train ( eg . the Alishan Mountain Railway ) .
Yes , you can ( I did so yesterday ) , for any train in India , as of April 2014 . There is no separate queue for foreign tourists , you have to wait in line at the " Reservation Office " . Expect to spend 30-45 minutes in line . While you are waiting ask the ticket agents for the form , you can fill out your train/address details on the form which will speed up the process once you get to the front ( and make the people behind you happier ) . You must bring your passport . You can pay in rupees .
First off , it 's never going to be ' cheap ' , unfortunately . There are a few reasons for this . ( * these prices correct as of November 2010 ) The Base If you fly , there 's no way around the fixed fare of USD$ 420 to fly return from Quito or Guayaquil . Then there 's the $ 100 National Park entrance fee . And another $ 10 for taxes . So we 'll ignore all that and just call that the ' base ' , and focus on the rest being cheaper ... A lot seem to focus on the cruise you 'll " need " to do . That 's not always the case . From <URL> : The airport beside Santa Cruz is on a small nearby island in the north side called Baltera , and from here you must get a 50 cent ferry across , then a $ 3 bus down south to the town . Once in town , it 's very easy to set yourself up with a $ 20 private hotel room with A/C and TV , and even Wifi ! Even out here in the middle of the Pacific ocean you remain connected to your Facebook Wall posts ! ( or GlobeNotes obviously ! ) The volcanic island of Isabella is about 2 hours by boat from Santa Cruz , and boats leave daily for only $ 25-30 . Bear in mind that boats only leave Santa Cruz at 2pm , and then leave Isabella only at 6am , so an overnight is required . Many people have told me that , with these two islands ( Isabella alone being 52 % of the total Galapagos landmass ) you can actually see MOST of the wildlife that you see on the far off islands that require cruises , the main exception being red-footed boobies and a few other bird species which are only found on the remote islands . Giant-Tortoise , Sea lions , Penguins , and TONS of Iguana . You name it . . you can see them all within about 15 min boat ride from the coast of either Isabella or Santa Cruz . Score ! It 's worth noting that according to <URL> : If you are planning to visit the Galapagos Islands , Guayaquil is the cheapest place to take a flight from . There are three air carriers that will take you across the Galapagos Islands as well as the Ecuadorean mainland , LAN-ECUADOR <URL> , Aerogal <URL> and TAME [ 5 ] have non stop daily flights , departing from Guayaquil is cheaper than leaving from Quito ( Is closer and most of the Quito flights do make an stop at Guayaquil 's airport for Refueling and picking up passengers . International departure airport tax was just recently increased in Guayaquil and is exactly $ 29.75 ( January 2010 ) . About 15 $ cheaper than Quito airport . Now , once you 're in Quito or Guayaquil , there are two sides to consider with tours . One - the travel agents will often claim the best tours are gone months in advance . Certainly some will be , but I 've NEVER hard of a person disappointed with their tour , no matter when they booked it . However , I have heard of some FANTASTIC deals bought on the ground in Quito . When staying at the <URL> in Quito , the <URL> downstairs was very closely linked with the hostel , offering free city tours and salsa lessons and the like . In addition , they were able to advise people about Galapagos options . I heard of people getting final berths on 5-star boats for the equivalent of paying 2 days for 7 , others getting discounted meals , and they were all booked in Quito or Guayaquil . So in conclusion , it 's hard to say for certain whether things are cheaper on the ground , but from anecdotal opinions , my experience , and the very reason tour companies exist in these cities , is that it is possible to beat prices when on the ground . And of course , this will flex with seasonal trends - more likely to get bargains in low season .
There 's really two different issues here - that of pre-selecting seats , and that of how check-in works with multi-airline itineraries . As far as pre-selecting seats , every airline has different policies . Specifically for SAS , they allow you to pre-select seats only if you has elite status with their frequent flyer program ( Eurobonus Gold ) , or on flights to/from the US regardless of status . Some other airlines will allow it at time of booking , some only allow it if you pay an extra fee , etc. . The specific airlines website should give you the details there . The second issue is checking in with a single connecting itinerary with multiple airlines . Again the exact rules will vary here depending on the airlines involved , but in general you need to check-in with the airline that is flying the first leg of your journey - in this case , SAS . Depending on the agreements between the airlines they may be able to also check you in for any additional flights with other airlines , or they may not be able to - in which case you would normally do so once you arrive at the transfer airport . In these cases seat selection again depends on the specific carriers . eg , if you were flying Emirates followed by SAS then within 22 hours of the flight you would be able to go to the SAS website , select " check-in " , and whilst it will not actually allow you to checkin ( as the first leg is with EK ) it WILL allow you to select seats ! In short , there is no simple or single answer to what you 're asking . Most airlines will publicize their rules for pre-selecting seats on their website - but be sure to read the full conditions to make sure that they apply to you , without needing status or paying any additional fees . Specifically for Cathay Pacific , they DO allow you to select seats in advance , regardless of status . If the website/travel agent you are booking on/with does n't give you the option , you can go to their website , enter your surname and booking number , and select your seats free of charge . British Airways on the other hand only allows you to select seats at the time of check-in ( up to 24 hours before your flight ) .
Next to travel.se I am also a big fan of <URL> . The userinterface might not be up to current standards , but they seem quite complete in their listings . as expected they do list the <URL> Tickets seems to be available through <URL> , or purchase tickets to events <URL>
Here 's what I found out : While you can reserve tickets through Lawson 's website ( if you read Japanese ) , you have only 2 days to print your tickets out at a Lawson 's branch in Japan before they cancel your reservation . So it 's not a great option if you want to buy tickets in advance . It 's March 30th now , and the April 9th 10am slot is already sold out . On the other hand , JTB only has a limited number of tickets it can sell . So just because you see open slots at Lawson 's website , this does n't mean you can get a ticket for them from JTB . I tried purchasing tickets from JTB on March 27 and they had no tickets earlier than April 21 . In summary , if you want to ensure a visit to the Ghibli museum , bite the overhead and reserve it through JTB , about a month in advance ( probably earlier if you plan to visit during Japanese holidays like Golden Week or Obon ) .
So since you have to basically go on a tour ( unless you volunteer ) , it 's fairly easy to get a visa - see <URL> . Book a tour and they 'll sort the visa for you . <URL> . Volunteering is certainly possible , and a quick google reveals many who have done it . I 'll try and indicate different examples , as each might be harder or easier for future readers . <URL> through Health Volunteers Overseas . <URL> from people who have done it - including a page on <URL> . Another <URL> describes volunteers from Japan , Singapore and New Zealand . Finally <URL> advertised . Many other such sites would exist as well , google certainly showed many more . What 's important , however , as the last blog post pointed out is that you should only volunteer to actually contribute something towards their country , not just to avoid a tourist fee . Of course , if you can succeed in doing both , everyone wins !
You can buy the 4G SIM card in Telkomsel Grapari in Jakarta and Bali , read <URL> under " Terms and Conditions " . You can find the address list <URL> .
Not sure where you 've been reading that , but I can assure you they 're quite wrong , <URL> sells every make of cheap electronics , so Chinese no-name brands and outright ripoffs are legion . Back in the day when iPhones were the new hotness and were n't officially available in Singapore yet , I remember seeing a plethora of " jPhones " , " iFones " , " iPhons " etc , all thinly disguised Windows or Linux . Some dealers are n't above selling you the real thing and slipping a clone in the bag instead , although the Tourist Board is cracking down on this pretty hard . The general rule of thumb for exploring SLS is that the higher up and deeper down you go , the more esoteric the fare on offer . To generalize , the ground floor is mercenary camera dealers and is best avoided , while the first floor is mostly mainstream audio gear , but the second floor up is all IT . The " inner ring " stores facing the atrium are fairly mainstream ( laptops etc ) , but the windowless " outer ring " stores behind them sell components , used gear , etc. . The <URL> is a good place to start hunting , most shops have their own websites . <URL> is also an excellent forum for more info .
Update : Good news , when you load the official page , you 'll now see that they accept VISA payments . As a result , you can now buy advance tickets from outside of Peru directly with the website . However , there are still many other ways to do this . I 'd recommend <URL> for sources on how to do it . There are numerous online tour agencies that you can pay to get you tickets . Once you 're in Cusco , you can buy a tour then if you 're doing one of the trails . Once you 're in Aguas Calientes ( final stop on the train route ) , you can buy tickets there . You can even buy tickets at the last second at the gate when you arrive at Machu Picchu . So do n't despair , there are plenty of other ways to achive your dream of going :)
I fly either that route ( as part of a GRU-SCL-AKL-MEL ) or the GRU-SCL-SYD-MEL route about 8 + times a year , though typically in business . There are really only two airlines to get you from SAO to AKL , and they 're Qantas and LAN , who each code-share the other 's flights . LAN 's fares are usually cheaper tha Qantas , even for exactly the same flight ( ie a LAN-marketed-fare on a Qantas-operated flight ) . The service and amenities in business at least are almost identical on both the LAN and Qantas flights out of Santiago ( SCL ) . In economy I suspect Qantas will be better , as I do n't think LAN have seat-back entertainment in economy . Because of the lack of competition on these routes , you will not find great variance between days of the week , especially if booking from further out . As the date gets closer , the weekends and Monday and Friday tend to book up , leaving only the higher fare classes aqvailable , so 1-4 weeks out you may see perhaps as much as a 20-30 % difference in fare between a mid-week flight and the other days . But this depends entirely on what has filled up . I recommend you book a LAN-marketed flight on Qantas metal , via an OTA such as Expedia . This is likely to be the best value .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
Both in the Netherlands and Belgium you can buy semi-open tickets at the station for the other country . You can perfectly buy a national ticket for Belgium in the Netherlands and vice versa . The benefit of these tickets is that they have a validity window of 1 or 2 months . This is not the case if you buy train tickets in the respective countries self . So for local trips in Belgium you need to buy your tickets in the Netherlands and for your local tickets in the Netherlands you need to head to Belgium . Caveat : This does NOT work with tickets bought online , only with tickets issued at the train station .
<URL> , it does n't appear that you need to register with the police . The procedure for entry into Transnistria from Moldova is pretty straightforward ( as of March 2015 ) ; any travel document valid for Moldova and/or Ukraine ( depending on point of entry ) is sufficient . You will be asked by the border guards ( some of them speak decent english ) your reason for visit ( tourism/business ) , and what hotel you plan to stay at . Then you will be given a entry card that allow you to stay in Transnistria for 24 hours . Be sure not to lose this important piece of paper , and above all , make sure you 're actually checked and get it , because , at least when entering by minibus , guards often do not perform checks ( though they definitely will on exit ) and not having an entry card is almost guaranteed to lead to being asked for a bribe , see below If you want to stay longer , you will have to register at your hotel , the Ministy of Interior or the immigration office in Tiraspol . You only need your passport , the piece of paper from the border and a receipt from your hotel . Keep the small square piece of paper they give you and present it to the guards when you leave . It 's all simple , free and easy . So , it seems you need to register with your hotel and the Immigration Office . All I can found info wise on the police is about corruption , check the link for details .
While growing up I had to turn on the heater before taking a shower and sometimes when its getting late , you really do n't have time to do that . Here 's some advice which might help . I 'm going to go ahead and assume that any hot water source is unavailable and you are in a frame of mind where the water is too cold !!! Step 1 - Making Peace with the Cold Water Okay so you do n't like cold water , the best way to make peace with it is to convince yourself that it 's not too cold . It 's like entering a cold swimming pool , if you dip your feet in it for a while , it 'll be easier for you to get in . When you wake up in the morning , your body temperature feels lower because you have n't had breakfast yet , that 's a good thing because it makes it easier to ease into the seemingly freakish cold water . If you happen to have a shower , then turn the shower on and let it gradually touch your feet first , followed by your hands . Keep the water running and slowly ease in from the extremities of your body all the way to your face . You face is the part which you 'll dread the most , so save it till the end after you feel like the body temperature going down . If you happen to have a jug and a bucket of water , follow the swimming pool strategy . Fill in the bucket halfway and dip your feet and hands in it . Then slowly start pouring down the cold water on your hands and proceed . One additional thing which might help is to have a towel on you . A towel which you could dip in the water and squeeze out/rub on your body will help . Step 2 - Taking the Leap of Faith You have to remember , practice makes a man perfect ! Doing it the first time is much harder than doing it the Nth time . After cooling down your body for a few minutes , hold your breath and step into the shower , as soon as you get into it , do n't chicken out ! The leap is the hardest , after it , it gets exponentially easier . Same goes with a bucket of water and jug , when you 're ready , repeatedly take a lot of water from the bucket and pour it over yourself . You start doing it , do n't stop ! Water in which you were dipping your hands or feet it will actually be warmer and make it a bit easier , which is why I feel using a bucket and jug is easier with cold water . Step 3 - Finish as soon as possible Remember , once you get into it , there 's no coming back , there 's no point doing the whole procedure from scratch again . So , keep pouring that cold water over you , it gets much easier when you keep doing it . Pause for short breaks only when you need to use soap or shampoo . Wash your body in little sections , torso at once , feet at once , hands at once etc. . After you 're done , get a fresh towel and hug yourself tight with it . I 've done the exact procedure I mentioned a several hundred times in my life quite comfortably , of course I like my hot water , but where there 's a will , there 's a way .
end question
start question
Are there cheap GPS or other navigator devices with downloadable maps for the whole world ?
If you have a Nokia Symbian device , then you can get <URL> installed on it . Ovi Maps allows you to download map files for as many countries as you want and store in on your memory card . Once that 's done , you can set Ovi Maps to offline mode and still be able to use it to get directions . If you get a local SIM , then it will be able to show you rough location data too . I find Google Maps ' public transit planning feature very handy too but I often can not use it on roaming . Instead , I use this app called <URL> ( available for iPhone , BlackBerry , Symbian , Windows Mobile , PalmOS - no Android or Windows Phone 7 version yet ) that allows you to store public transit information data offline for many major cities around the world . <URL> ; you can also use the same page to customise your download in case you do not want the full package . They are <URL> too . EDIT : Google Maps has recently launched a beta feature ( only on Android phones though ) that allows you to save map data for a specific radius on your phone for offline usage . Not as useful as downloading maps for a whole country like Ovi Maps allows , but if you have wifi access every now and then on the road then you should be able to take bits of Google Maps offline on the go . EDIT 2 : Android users can also try out the free <URL> app that allows you download offline maps country-by-country . The maps themselves are mostly barebones with no point-of-interest data .
As a former Flightfox ' expert ' , this has changed over time . For a while , if you paid and ran a contest , and they could n't beat your price , you could request a refund ( if you proved you had a lower price ) , and you 'd get your money back . Then a few months back they changed their model and shut out most of the experts , changing the remainder to ' travel consultants ' . The idea being instead of having a bunch of people throw prices at you , you 'd get one of their best people working with you to find the lowest price . Odds are , you 're going to get amazing service . When I was competing as an expert on the site - and I consider myself reasonably good at finding flight specials , I was in awe at some of the prices some people were managing to find . I 'd use the site to get other experts to beat my prices for my own travel as well . They 're seriously good . Now the <URL> specify : On Flightfox , travel consultants ( the " Experts " ) try to build you the best trip itinerary in exchange for a fee . You pay this fee for services rendered . If you are unhappy with the service , you may request a refund from your expert . Your expert holds full discretion to approve or decline refunds . So there 's no ' guarantee ' , and there 's always a chance that you 'll find the absolute cheapest fare . Nobody can promise to beat every single price . But if you 're unhappy or they really ca n't beat you , it 's in their interests to refund . In the past when I used it and they could n't beat a YVR - > SFO return flight of mine , they refunded it . I 'd probably still use them for a complex trip . They 're amazing . However I now compete on darjeelin.com ( see referral link in my profile if interested ) as Flightfox has shut a lot of us out , which is disappointing . I 've met the founders and like them and really support the site - as an ' expert ' I 'll use darjeelin , but as a customer , I 'd still use flightfox . It 's a great solution .
A bit more searching and I 've found <URL> . Getting closer , I 've found <URL> , which looks promising ... And The Cruse Village has a <URL> :
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
Round-the-world fares do exist . Most airline alliances and occasionally single airlines offer around the world fares . <URL> ( includes British Airways , American Airlines , Cathay Pacfic ) <URL> ( includes Lufthansa , United ) <URL> It can be very cost effective , especially for premium class ( business and first class fares ) . There are limits on all of them , usually they prevent backtracking across a continent , a limited number of segments , and only visiting each continent once ( once you leave you do n't go back ) . <URL> is a forum with a lot of trip reports done on RTW fares ( check the trip reports forum ) . In response to your comment , usually if you arrive at one airport and depart from another then that counts as an overland segment and counts towards your ticket usage . For example , if you flew from New York to Berlin , took the train to Madrid , and then flew out from Madrid to Cairo , three segments would be used : New York - Berlin Berlin - Madrid ( overland segment ) Madrid - Cairo It does n't matter if you fly or not , it still takes away from your overall segment limit . A segment refers to one specific flight .
I live in Turkey and travel to Bulgaria regularly . ( ~ 20 times now ) . My general idea would be that this might be easier to find in Bulgaria as long as you were in one of the major cities . Turkey does n't seem to have this stuff just anywhere . That being said , it 's cheap-ish generic gear can be found at some major markets in Turkey , so I 'd be inclined to hit up a few stores and pick something up before I hit the road .
There is indeed very little information about this online . A question asked prior to 2003 on the site ' www.h2.dion.ne.jp ' ( no longer online ) : Q : Do shinkansen trains have power outlet sockets for running laptop computers ? A : Generally , no , although the latest 700 series trains running on JR West Hikari Rail Star services do have power outlet sockets . <URL> confirms that the most 700 series models have power outlets for passengers . Hikari 546 is a N700 which have power outlets . Hikari 470 is a 700 which most likely have power outlets . Max Toki 329 seems to be an E4 series which is not likely to have power outlets . Only the N700 trains between Tokyo and Osaka have Wifi , and you still have to pay for it before you board the train using one of the Japanese carriers like <URL> or <URL>
I looked through our database at <URL> where we 're working to aggregate all the world 's bus providers and routes . We 're sure we do n't know about everything yet , but we 've found a lot of routes . There are several long routes in South and North America based on driving distance measured on google maps . Here are the top contenders for long same-bus trips with no transfers . South America : There are a few documentaries and tv reports about the long direct routes on <URL> where you can see the same coach goes all the way through . 5582 km : Lima , Peru to Buenos Aires , Argentina ( Ormeño ) - Via Santiago , Chile . 5573 km : Lima , Peru to Sao Paulo , Brazil ( Ormeño ) - Via Rio Branco , Acre , Brazil . North America : 4644 km / 85 hours : Los Angles , California , USA to San Salvador , El Salvador ( Usa Tours ) - Once a week via Tijuana , Guadalajara , and Guatemala City . 4607 km / 65 hours : <URL> - via Kansas , Pittsburg and Philadelphia . Impressively , Greyhound runs two of these a day . 3538 km : Saint Paul , Minnesota , USA to Morelia , Michoacán , Mexico ( Transportes Chayo ) . 3435 km / 52 hours : <URL> - All passengers are required to get off the bus for cleaning in Sudbury and Winnipeg amongst other places . 3254 km / 44 hours : <URL> - There are several other buses from Chicago to Mexico but this is the most frequent , at least daily , and the longest we 're sure is a direct bus . Europe : 3631 km : Braunschweig , Germany to Grozny , Chechnya , Russia ( KVN ) - The route is currently a bit longer than normal since it 's detouring around the entire eastern Ukraine through Belarus . 3558 km : Burgas , Bulgaria to Liverpool , England , United Kingdom ( Sofia Bus ) - Via Maribor , Stuttgart , Mannheim , Paris , London , Manchester . Africa 1868 km : Johannesburg , South Africa to Lilongwe , Malawi ( Intercape )
IGN produces several series of maps covering the whole of France . For hiking , I always use TOP 25 maps ( 1:25000 scale ) . You can <URL> ( Grenoble is <URL> ) , have them print a specific area on demand ( only slightly more expensive and convenient if you want an area that is in between two maps of the regular series ) or <URL> ( the system had many problems at the beginning and it is still somewhat difficult to get around but it 's all there ) . I do n't know about using the site on the go or printing/downloading , I always get paper maps before serious hikes . There are also two other options that I never used . TOP 100 are less detailed but I believe that they have more touristic information ( trails , mountain huts , it 's all there on the TOP 25 maps of course but it 's so detailed that you sometimes need more effort to figure things out ) . TOP 75 maps are new and especially designed for hiking . Unlike the other two , they are not available for the whole country but there is one covering <URL> . Obviously it 's not online but other than that , it could be a good choice for your trip . There are also apparently some mobile applications ( more information in French <URL> and <URL> ) allowing you to download these data and use them on a GPS/mobile device but I never tried any of them .
<URL> , in Greece , does not permit women to enter . Wikipedia explains the rationale behind this prohibition as Monks feel that the presence of women alters the social dynamics of the community and therefore slows their path towards spiritual enlightenment . However , you may want to refine your question . For example , most restrooms are divided on gender , although I largely suspect that that is not exactly the type of answer you were looking for .
As far as I know there is no such website or app that allows to book last-minute cheap flights . So you have to use any of the well-known services . In particular , the flight trip between Barcelona and Madrid ( or viceversa ) is known as " puente aereo " ( literally " aerial bridge " ) and in general the cheapest company that operates this route is <URL> ( 13 flights per day ) . Prices starts from 50-70 $ but it depends on the schedule . Also the high-speed train is a good option and the bus is the cheapest option .
I 've found ( anecdotally ) that initially in London , the walking times were way too slow - I was beating the times regularly . Then I moved to Vancouver and found them too fast . I 'm a quick walker , so was n't sure what was happening . I eventually figured it was down to knowledge . I ' knew ' London far better , and even though I might be using a map , I could navigate the crowds , the streets and so on far better than in Vancouver , where I was regularly having to check landmarks . When it comes to driving , the Google Maps times are best possible times . So it 's assuming you can drive at basically the speed limit all the time . It gives no thought to inevitable traffic problems ( they 're improving that , especially in cities , but it 's not there yet ) , and as you 've pointed out wo n't handle rest times . I drove from Melbourne to Sydney ( Australia ) this year and the times were definitely low . I wanted to stop for lunch , or briefly check out some sightseeing spots , sure , but even the sections where I was just driving ( week day , during the day ) in a car I was n't used to , on roads I was n't used to , the estimates were n't ideal . Perhaps if you speed , or are really used to driving on Japanese roads it 'd be more accurate , but currently it 's a best-case , for the most part . ( disclaimer : this post will outdate as Google improves , but that 's the situation to the best of my knowledge currently ) EDIT : Someone did a pretty good breakdown , and a discussion follows , on this topic on reddit ( it was about why speeding seemed to match the accuracy ) . Some of the discussion will be of interest : <URL> Further relevant posts , linked from that discussion : <URL> and how they 're trying to use your data to improve their algorithms : <URL>
Google 's official <URL> lists the following information in their <URL> : Average ( avg . ) speed Speed limits show how fast someone can drive legally . When getting directions in Google Maps , speed limits help calculate travel time . Default speeds : Roads in every country have a default speed limit depending on the road priority , surface type , and the country 's speed guidelines . If you 're not sure about the speed value , leave it as default . Some segments might have different speed limits and should be changed to ensure best routing . Verify the speed limit by looking at posted signs in Street View ( where available ) . Therefore Google does n't calculate the average road speed by looking at actual travel speeds , or at least it does n't do so directly . If you wish to verify their assumptions you could try viewing a given road on <URL> . Ecuador , Peru and Bolivia all have partial Street View coverage , so it should be possible to view at least part of the route before going : <URL>
I do n't know about other places , but when I visited Istanbul a few years ago I had the opportunity of seeing a ceremony of Whirling Dervishes in the former train station of Sirkeci ( where the Orient Express used to end its journey ) . It is held in the evening , I think more than once a week ( but I was there in late December , so perhaps it was more frequent than in other periods of the year ) . The tickets could be bought at the ticket office in the train station . I do n't know whether you are deeply interested in Sufi philosophy and traditions or if you are just curious ( the way we were ) ; if the latter holds , you may have a look at <URL> or even <URL> . If you are interested in getting in closer contact with this group , you may want to visit <URL> .
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
I found a list of laundry service providers in Bangkok . You can look over it . I hope it will help you to find your nearest service provider . <URL>
According to the InterWebs there are only two Korean restaurants in Romania , both in Bucharest ( <URL> and <URL> ) , however where-ever there is a good number of Korean tourists or workers , there is usually also a Korean restaurant . Looking at the <URL> of Daewoo Mangalia Heavy Industries . all the managers listed there have Romanian names , the president and CEO is Korean , but it seems he is based in Korea . So we can assume there are not many Koreans working at the site , and therefore there is no place to get Korean food . There are a few Chinese places up the coast in Constanta .
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
Not the scale of the Badlands , only a small museum , there is <URL> Museum in the South-West of France , somewhere between Carcassonne and Perpignan in a small village named Espéraza . Near that place there is another museum dedicated to the <URL> . This region on the foothills of the Pyrénées mountains is also full of medieval Cathar castles .
Yes , there is a comprehensive list of what vaccinations are provided by the NHS . <URL> , which says : Free travel vaccinations The following travel vaccinations are usually available free on the NHS diphtheria , polio and tetanus ( combined booster ) typhoid hepatitis A -- including when combined with typhoid or hepatitis B cholera These vaccines are usually free because they protect against diseases thought to represent the greatest risk to public health if they were brought into the country . Interestingly it says " usually " rather than making a blanket statement . I 'm not sure if this is because the decision is made at an individual trust/surgery level , or if they are just covering themselves . Further down the page it also notes that : People in certain risk groups may be offered extra vaccines I personally found that when I attempted to get Typhoid/hep A from the NHS , my GP had a temporary staffing issue with regards to nurses , and as a result simply said " we 're not doing travel appointments " . Which was somewhat frustrating , although they did at least provide a list of private suppliers . At the time this answer was placed , the webpage stated it was last reviewed on 16/11/2015 I have no idea if this applies at all to the Scottish NHS .
end question
start question
Does anyone still offer standby without already having paid another fare ?
Most airlines eliminate cheaper seats as you get closer to departure . The vast majority of last minute bookings are business travelers who will pay whatever it takes to get there when they need to . So no real motivation to sell discounted seats ( especially since last minute for business needs can truly be last minute ) . The route you are looking , USA to southern Europe , will be busy in spring , so the cheapest seats are likely selling well already . You could try a broad search , say til 1 June , find the cheapest ticket and then try to standby for an earlier departure . Or two , just bite the bullet and book the best fare for the dates you want to go . But " standby fares " went the way of the dinosaurs with paper tickets ;-)
You are an EU national living in the UK and want to sponsor your cousin for a short visit . Your cousin is an Indian national who is working in Oman . From Paragraph 24 of the rules , your cousin will need an entry clearance . In order to be successful , he will need to clear all of the points listed in Paragraph 41 of the rules . See <URL> Your cousin should apply on-line as a GENERAL VISITOR . Near the end of the application , he will answer some questions about making a biometrics appointment at a facility in Oman . Once the appointment is booked , he will see a page of information on what to do next . If you are lawfully in the UK and have the financial capacity along with an acceptable level of credibility , you can participate in the application process by offering to help . Because cousins do not have the degree of relationship needed to qualify as family , your cousin will be treated as a FRIEND , and they will need a pretty clear understanding of why you want to do this . For example , do you normally sponsor your cousins in the same way ? What 's special about this particular point in time ? With this background information , your cousin should start by opening an account and going through the application rigmarole at <URL>
My initial thought was along the lines of ' but Maori are just part of the community ' - but while that 's true , there are still some options that are actually pretty awesome . And to time with the Rugby World Cup , <URL> - maraes being traditional community ancestral house or meeting venue . There are some good options out there , and I 'll list a couple of them now : <URL> - two marae on site , where you get two nights stay ( at least ) , cultural experiences , guided tours of the valley and surrounding forest , and an opportunity to see some of their arts and culture . <URL> - probably touristy , but the contents look like you really get the complete experience . From the initial Hongi ( nose touch ) , you 'll learn some language , go to a great marae , sleep over in a traditional meeting house ( optional , you can stay elsewhere for extra , but why would you ! ) , great Maori food - and importantly , you 'll share in making a Hangi - the traditional earth oven meal ( has to be seen and tasted to appreciate ! ) , learn about the Haka and try some of the traditional arts - weaving , carving , as well as learn about the history and culture . If I were a tourist in NZ , the latter one really would cover everything , although as a warning - like so many things in this vein , it 's probably a little touristy . Of course , the other option is to try couchsurfing and see if you can find a homestay on that ! However it 'd be more likely to be modern rather than traditional culture , of course .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
Deutsche post does n't offer such a service . Callshops and copyshops do offer sending a fax . A qiuck search in <URL> will show you some copyshops and almost all of them will also offer sending a fax . The price may vary from store to store . I found this <URL> of a copyshop in Berlin ( see page 13 ) . If you send a fax to a non European country it will cost 4 EUR for the first page and 1 EUR for each next page .
I do n't think that there will be some special actions in November for Russian Railways . May be some additional trains for the <URL> , but this is n't the case for you . But I have a good news for you - there always some discounts depending on the train , and some special pricing for international trains . Bad news is that the main interesting actions are in Russian . For International trains you can explore <URL> on Enlish version of their site , but this information only about international trains , so I would n't get the details here . For inner trains there are two main option to save the money ( all links will be in Russian , please try to use the Google Translate for it ) : <URL> <URL> First one is strategy to encourage the passengers to but tickets earlier - for inner trains you can buy ticket up to 45 days from deliver date , up to 60 days for international trains , and for some trains you can rally save money with early purchase . The process still in progress , as for many trains carrier has a monopoly , and ca n't quickly introduce such discount according to the laws . You may be interested in route Moscow - Ufa - Moscow , other destinations are far too away from Trans-Siberian railroad . The main thing you should note about this option is that the <URL> tickets are n't available , so you have to buy expensive tickets , but with a discount :) Note that upper seats in <URL> are cheaper than lower ones . <URL> are also available for some trains . Second one is a repeatable discount , so each Tuesday you can buy cheap platzkart tickets even with discount . Right now , today you can buy ticket for October , 7 to 27 for a set of trains . Some of them are quite unusual , but Moscow - Ufa still available . Bad news is that the trains can be a random choice , and the seats are platzkart-sided , which is n't very comfortable , and personally I suggest you not to try this one out without good company : <URL> So , if you 're feeling lucky , choose train you like , and Good Luck with your travel !
As you know , regular German type D visas are not restricted to Germany but also allow the holder to <URL> ( some visas or other documents restricted to a single country do however exist , e.g. for asylum seekers ) . It 's not required to enter the Schengen area through Germany either . Article 5 of the Schengen Borders Code even includes several provisions explicitly referring to this possibility ( my emphasis ) : For intended stays on the territory of the Member States of a duration of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period , which entails considering the 180-day period preceding each day of stay , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : [ ... ] ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement ( 18 ) , except where they hold a valid residence permit or a valid long-stay visa ; So you can cross any external border , your long-stay visa can replace the Schengen visa you would otherwise need . Furthermore , the regulation also includes this : By way of derogation from paragraph 1 : ( a ) third-country nationals who do not fulfil all the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 but who hold a residence permit or a long-stay visa shall be authorised to enter the territory of the other Member States for transit purposes so that they may reach the territory of the Member State which issued the residence permit or the long-stay visa , unless their names are on the national list of alerts of the Member State whose external borders they are seeking to cross and the alert is accompanied by instructions to refuse entry or transit ; This means that even if you do not meet the usual conditions for a visit to the Schengen area ( e.g. you ca n't prove you have enough money or health insurance ) , you should at least be allowed to transit in Amsterdam . Note that the visa must however be valid so you have to check if the period of validity on the visa sticker itself allows you to enter early . Finally , some countries ( do n't know about Germany ) require some long-stay visa holders , including students , to complete some formalities ( e.g. medical check-up or some form of registration ) within a specified time of entering . Presumably the delay runs from the date on your entry stamp . To the extent that it 's the case in Germany , it would mean that you have one week less to take care of that .
It all depends on the company . In the US it is customary to tip taxi drivers , however some shuttle companies have no tip policies . The difference between the two are that taxi drivers lease their cab from the company they drive for and rely on tips . Shuttle drivers usually get paid by the hour and tips are an added bonus . If this is a private shuttle 20 % is more than enough . 20 % = Great 15 % = Average 10 % = You 're a jerk
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
It has always been illegal and people have been arrested for smoking it in the open . I always love the faces of the tourists being arrested at Schiphol airport or in front of the Central station in Amsterdam for smoking weed . It is a global misconception that in Amsterdam it is as free as smoking cigarettes on the street . The principle has always been , what is called " Gedogen " , which means that it is tolerated as long as you do n't use it in the open and do n't create annoyances . It is the Dutch way of dealing with social problems . It is similar to the so-called " afwerkplekken " for street prostitution . These are designated area 's where street prostitution is tolerated . When ever there is a social problem that is hard to eradicate , the Dutch approach is encapsulate it in known zones , relieving other area 's from problems related to that social problem . In the seventies the Dutch government introduced so called " coffeeshops " , which are designated establishments where cannabis use is tolerated . Again recognize the difference between tolerated and allowed . What has changed recently is the legal status for these coffeeshops . They are now only allowed as a member-only organization for local residents . To get access to a coffeeshop you need to register as a member providing proof you live in the same city . The change of this regulation was guided by the pressure from Belgium and Germany . Border cities like Maastricht , Roosendaal , Terneuzen were like magnets to weed smokers from France , Belgium and Germany , causing problems in those cities and the surrounding countries . This was the reason behind introducing the member-only requirement for coffeeshops . This is also why the weed-pass as it is informally called was first introduced in the border regions and later imposed on other cities like Amsterdam . As Mark already said , again some cities like Amsterdam chose not to spent resources on enforcing this . Border cities did introduce the legislation to require the member-only status of coffeeshops , with the effect that most coffeeshops did close .
I ca n't prove a negative , but as far as I can tell by looking at the sites of A-Line and Marix , the answer is no , they do n't offer any sort of hop-on-hop-off ticket , nor do you get any " stopovers " if you buy a longer ticket . There 's a third option from Amami to Kagoshima , the once-weekly <URL> via the tiny and obscure <URL> ( long on my personal to-do list ) , but this costs even more at & yen ; 11,620 one-way .
No , the ETA subclass 601 is not the right visa for this purpose . To quote the <URL> Business visitor activities include : making general business or employment enquiries investigating , negotiating , signing or reviewing a business contract activities carried out as part of an official government-to-government visit participating in conferences , trade fairs or seminars , as long as you are not being paid by the organisers for your participation . Business activities do not include short-term work . If you want to work in Australia , you can apply for a Temporary Work ( Short Stay Activity ) visa ( Subclass 400 ) . ( Emphasis mine ) Now some anecdotal evidence ( see the answer by @pkaeding ) suggests you can get away with this visa anyway . Enforcement of these things often varies by nation enforcing , and the ethnicity and class of the visitor ( white people in expensive suits more likley to be waved through ) . However I know that in the UK trying to do this could cause you a lot of trouble , and that in the US sometimes you might get waved through with the answer " business " , sometimes you might get asked more questions at the border , and then turned around . <URL> The Temporary Work ( Short Stay Activity ) visa ( subclass 400 ) is a temporary visa that lets you enter Australia to : do short-term , highly specialised , non-ongoing work participate in an event or events on a non-ongoing basis at the invitation of an Australian organisation . in limited circumstances , participate in an activity or work relating to Australia 's interests . Generally you can stay in Australia for up to three months where required , but depending on your work or activity a longer period of up to six months may be allowed in limited circumstances . Which sounds like exactly what you want . The wording of the site implies its not too difficult to get , but who knows .
How high is " high " ? Poking around on Ryanair , I can see fares of eg . 49 GBP all in for Stansted to Porto on July 13 , and it 's a 3-hour train ride from there to Lisbon . I do n't think there 's any way you can get there even nearly as cheaply by train alone , but if you want to try , Seat 61 lists out the options : <URL> Based on the prices there , it looks like London-Paris-Irun-Lisbon would set you back a minimum of 150 quid even with cheap advance fares .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Most of the passport " ranking " systems are based on the number of countries you can visit without a visa . And they apply to everyone who holds that passport . As such the rank of your Sri Lankan passport is the same as the rank of every other Sri Lankan passport . That said , the fact that Australia granted you a visa and that you traveled there within the terms of that visa , may be taken into consideration by other countries for which you are applying for visas . But the keyword is " may " . You still need to fulfill all of the requirements of the country that you wish to visit . If your qualifications are weak , then perhaps the consular official may take your previous visa/trips into consideration . But having the visa does not increase the value of your passport , nor does it guarantee any better treatment .
There is no point to opening an account if you are not going to use it . Depending on the rules of the program , your points may expire in as little as a year , and your account may be closed as dormant if there is no activity . With that in mind , it is perfectly fine to belong to more than one loyalty program , even within the same alliance , regardless of how often you use them . Cathay Pacific ( Asia Miles ) and Air France ( Flying Blue ) are not partners , and there is no way for you to earn mileage on a Cathay Pacific flight in your Flying Blue account . It would thus be appropriate to join a program where you can earn miles . Note that it does not necessarily have to be Asia Miles . Depending on your future travel and earning/redemption patterns it might be better to collect Avios in British Airways ' Executive Club , or AAdvantage miles from American Airlines . In general , however , it is to your advantage to concentrate earning in a handful of preferred programs , one for each carrier ( whether air or ground ) you use most often , but not more than one for each airline alliance . Remember , frequent flyer miles are not a currency . They can not usually be transferred from one program to another without extremely drastic devaluations through third parties , and you can not usually combine points from multiple programs for a single redemption . With extremely rare exceptions , you can only accrue in a single program at a time , so you would want to apply them where they are most valuable . Concentrating your earning so accelerates the accumulation of miles both for elite level qualification and for redemption . For more infrequent travelers , it helps keep the account active , perhaps reducing the risk that the account will go dormant and the miles be forfeited .
Last time I flew Spirit , I was able to print my boarding pass at a kiosk without paying an additional fee . I believe the $ 10 fee only applies if you get a counter agent to print it for you .
Some airlines will match , others wo n't , so it 's tough to answer in the abstract As a general rule though , you 're more likely to get matching from a North American airline , and quite unlikely to get it from a European one except during one-off promotions . Also matching inside of an alliance is usually tough to get , between alliances is easier . For some examples , BA , Emirates , Lufthansa and Singapore are known for not offering status matching , where as Delta and Continental do . Things do change over time , but at the moment your best bet is to look through the <URL> , look up your new " local " airlines and see .
I have now traveled over 20,000 km on Indian railways , and I wanted to do the same too ! Never had the chance though . As of today , there are only Diesel and electronic locomotives are in run today . Riding on top of an electric obviously means you are risking your life a lot . Mumbai is probably where it is most impossible to do so , unfortunately . Mumbai local is entirely electronic , and the power supply runs just a few feet above the train . The long distance trains that depart from Chithrapathi Shivaji terminus or Mumbai Central stations have tight security ( due to 2008 bombings and the nature of Indian railway systems in general ) . There is only one incident that I could get a glimpse of such experience . This is in Varanasi to Gaya railway . It is still an electronic loco , so you can not ride on top . It was almost the mid night , and I believe it was the last train . I had no luggage to carry , and was trying to get to the train somehow just as the locals . A few people climbed to the engine , and there was a bar that you could hold on to . Also , a few people tied their foot cycles to the windows and somehow managed to stay by holding to the windows . Not even the above would n't be possible in Mumbai local because the narrow railway gates and tunnels . I 'm not sure if you will be able to do so , but from what I have experienced , your best odds would be at Bihar and West Bengal ( The Darjeeling train is not good either ; I 'm in Darjeeling right now and pretty disappointed really ) . Riding on top of buses is a different story though . It is equally dangerous , but buses travel slow , and the roads are rather majestic ( I have done this several times in Abhaneri , Rajastan ( where the deepest Indian stepwell is located ) , Gaya , and Shimla ) Also , keep in mind that <URL> about 30,000 deaths per year from railway systems in India , so please be careful .
They definitely still exist - they 're more common in the southern part of Taiwan , but if you 're looking in Taipei , the one near Fu Jen University had quite a bunch last time I went . <URL>
end question
start question
How much transfer time do I need when traveling from Germany ( via London ) to the USA ?
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
It is still possible to find ATMs which do not charge the 150 baht fee for international withdrawals . As of Jan 2013 , the Aeon ATMs skip the fee . They are in many shopping malls ( e.g. Siam Paragon , Terminal 21 ) , but usually difficult to find . Citibank used to allow this as well , but no longer . Exchange rates at ATMs are consistent and almost always better than in other places . Do watch out for hidden and public fees on your home bank 's end -- some banks add a 1-2 % " exchange fee " plus some amount in fixed " because we can " fees . Policies on opening bank accounts in Thailand vary by branch . There 's no law or consistent set of rules , even within a single company different branches have different rules . If you try several banks/branches , there should be one that lets you open an account without a longer-term visa . A basic ATM account should be cheap and easy . Once you have a local account , you can use a wire transfer to get money into it from abroad . The send/receive fees are usually fixed ( $ 30 - $ 50 ; check both banks ) , this works out cheaper than international ATM fees for large amounts . When wiring money , send USD and have the Thai bank do the exchange to THB . Unless in a huge rush , avoid Western Union : their fees and exchange rates are atrocious .
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
Ah , MUFJ , that mutant offspring of semi-insolvent Japanese banks . You 're in for some fun times ! The sanest way to approach this is to go to the bank branch and ask , they 'll rustle up somebody with enough English to help you out . The Japanese keyword is <URL> ( gaikokusōkin ) . A few pointers : Not all branches handle remittances , so pick a nice big branch that does . See <URL> ( Jp only ) . Bring lots of ID , both personal and bank-related . Make sure you know your " anshin bangō " security code and can sign your signature the way you did when you opened your account . Find out everything you possibly can about the bank account you 're sending to . This includes SWIFT codes , branch names , branch addresses , etc. . Expect it to take forever . Seriously , if you 're out of there in less than an hour , it 's a good day . Expect to pay <URL> for the privilege , more if you 're sending lots .
From the SBB Web site it seems that all you will need is your daughter 's passport or other official ID ( to prove her date of birth ) and the fee . You 'll need to give an address as well , which will be printed or written on the travelcard ; it 's not clear whether this needs to be an address in Switzerland or your own home address abroad . You 'll get two travelcards , one for each parent . A photo is not needed . ( From <URL> [ PDF , German ] ) As Roflcopter says , Zurich airport railway station can be busy and it can be quiet . If the ticket counters are busy you could try the SBB travel agency next door . I 'd be surprised if issuing the ticket takes more than five minutes . But assuming you do n't live in Switzerland , you 'd probably be better off with <URL> tickets for yourself and the free Family Card which Max mentions for your daughter . Even if you 're not doing enough travelling for a " go-anywhere " Swiss Pass to be worthwhile , a Half Fare Card ( CHF 120 ) will more than pay for itself just with one return journey from the airport to Jungfraujoch ( CHF 340 full fare ) .
She will need to apply for a non-immigrant visa just like an adult Russian would , using the <URL> form , which is done <URL> . She will be required to go to an interview and have her fingers scanned as part of the application process . Below 14 years children travelling with a parent ( who has their own visa ) or a school group , would be <URL> . Regarding the actual flying-there part , <URL> by the airlines for the purposes of solo travel . The unaccompanied minor programs are really designed for kids up to about 11 - they basically nanny the kid the whole way until hand-over . You CAN register 12-17 year olds as unaccompanied minors if you think such treatment is warranted . In this case , at 16 , I ca n't think of anything worse . There are <URL> of 12-17 year olds getting hassled for travelling alone by either airline staff or immigration , mainly due to incompetence and not knowing the rules . You should definitely make sure she has a parental consent letter allowing the solo travel , signed by both parents . This will not only smooth over these bumps should they occur , but may be required by Russian emigration laws ( see Robert 's link in comments ) . Good luck !
I think you have the basics right . In your case , both passports could let you enter Germany but the US also has a rule that US citizens must use their US passport to enter the country ( I think European countries , including Germany , are much less concerned about that ) . Since the US uses airline data to replace exit immigration and checks passenger manifests ( <URL> ) of incoming aircraft , I would guess that using your US passport to book the ticket might be required to avoid problems . You can always show both passports to the airline staff ( although they might not even ask for it as US citizens do n't need visas to enter Germany ) and use your German passport for the German passport check ( although I am not even sure that using the local passport is required there ) , even if the ticket was booked on the US passport . Finally , under EU law , relatives ( spouse and dependents under the age of 21 ) who are not EU citizens should only undergo a ' minimum check ' ( i.e. checking the validity of their documents and establishing their identity but not asking questions about purpose , financial means , etc. see article 7 of the Schengen Borders Code ) and can use the EU/EEC citizens lane ( article 9 ) if they are travelling with you . But since you are travelling to your country of citizenship ( and not to another EU country ) , you are not formally exercising your rights to free movement within the EU and the rules could theoretically be different .
Yes , you can . On March 23 , 2013 , the ten largest transit smartcards in Japan became fully ( * ) compatible , and this includes Pasmo , Suica and all three systems used in and around Fukuoka : <URL> ( JR Kyushu ) , <URL> ( Nishitetsu ) and <URL> ( Fukuoka City Subway ) . ( diagram <URL> ) ( * ) For tickets , anyway , electronic money is a little more complicated , and there 's a long tail of non-top-ten cards that are only partly compatible . See <URL> for the gruesome details .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
Your principal concern will be with the airline . They can impose a variety of requirements , but these can vary from company to company . You can generally find information on the company 's web site , or , presumably , by calling the company 's customer service office . Transavia appears to have no special documentary requirements . For children from age 5 to age 11 , unaccompanied children must pay for and use the unaccompanied minor service ; from age 12 to age 15 , this service is optional . For sixteen and seventeen year olds , therefore , we can infer that the service is unavailable . You are probably also wondering about legal requirements imposed by the countries you 'll be traveling in . There appears to be no definite requirement in international , EU , or Dutch law . For example , from <URL> : Documents for minors In addition to their own valid passport or ID card , all children travelling : alone ; or with adults who are not their legal guardian ; or with only one parent may need an extra ( official ) document signed by their parents , second parent or legal guardian ( s ) authorising them to travel . There are no EU rules on this matter , each EU country decides whether or not it requires such documents . Check , before the child travels , the requirements of the country you are travelling both from and to : Here follows a " choose country " link that allows you to check the requirements for various European countries . This is followed by a disclaimer and some additional information : The European Commission is not responsible for the content of external websites Bear in mind that , even where a country does not require minors to carry such an authorisation to leave or enter its territory , other countries they transit through may still ask them to show one . When travelling by air it is highly recommended that you check with the airlines beforehand as many require such authorisations and have their own specific forms for this purpose . As each country 's rules may change without notice you are also encouraged to check with the authorities themselves or with the respective embassies or consulates . It is definitely a good idea to follow the above advice . Using the " choose country " link for Denmark , we find Other than their own valid travel document ( passport or ID card ) , no particular extra official document is required authorising minors of any EU country to enter or leave Denmark . For the Netherlands ( omitting some text irrelevant to your case ) : Other than their own valid travel document ( passport or ID card ) , no particular extra official authorisation is required for minors of any EU country to enter or leave the Netherlands . Finally , although it appears not to be required , it would not hurt anything to carry a letter signed by your parents or guardians stating that you are traveling with their permission . You could bring a photocopy of their passports or ID documents to support the authenticity of the letter . You would also want a copy of the document showing their relationship to you . This would normally be your birth certificate , but if they are adoptive parents or court-appointed guardians , it would be the adoption papers or a court order or the like .
The standard way would be to take a train . The <URL> is the place to look for train schedules and prices , and you can book online and print most ticket types at home . The website normally shows the fastest routes only , but you can tell it to omit ICEs ( high-speed trains , often more expensive ) or to stick to regional trains ( slowest and usually cheapest ) . The bad news about German rail prices is that they are very complicated . The good news is that the DB trip planner will usually offer you the cheapest price for a given connection . The exception is that sometimes a day ticket is cheaper even for a single trip , and the website wo n't always tell you . Generally speaking , you will get a substantial discount if you decide on a day and time early and book a non-refundable , non-exchangeable ticket . These tickets can often give you high-speed travel for a similar price as regional trains . Some ticket types also include the possibility of local travel ( buses , trams , U-Bahn , S-Bahn ) at the beginning or end of the journey , check if it 's a possibility ( it 's rarely a deciding factor in choosing a fare type ) . At the moment , the cheapest fare I can see in October is 44 $ for a high-speed connection ( direct , or ICE most of the way with one change ) , if you avoid the heaviest-loaded peak hour trains , for a 4 1/2 to 5 hours journey time . Alternatively , you can pay 42 $ for a ticket that lets you travel on all regional trains in Germany for a day provided you start after 9am ( <URL> ) . Do note that Freiburg to Hannover is 10 hours on regional trains . If several of you are traveling on the same route , note that some ticket types offer considerable discounts for additional passengers . For example , the Quer-durchs-Land-Ticket is only 6 $ for each additional passenger traveling together . The <URL> , valid for one day on a Saturday or Sunday in regional trains only , is 39 $ for up to 5 people . Thus one possibility for cheap travel is to find someone who 's taking the same train anyway and offer to pay the add-on price . I do n't foresee this working well for a cross-country journey like yours though . Sometimes you can get cheap fares on budget airlines . These are often only attractive if you have a cheap way to get to and from the airport ; otherwise the cost of local transportation can be prohibitive . There 's no airport near Freiburg ; the closest is the <URL> , and a bus ticket to Freiburg is a whooping <URL> . If you do n't take the train and do n't fly , your other option is to hitch-hike . That can come out cheapest , if you find someone going the right way at the right time . If you 're traveling from the <URL> , the situation is quite different . Flying might be more attractive , though for this particular combination of cities it does n't seem to be : you ca n't fly direct to Hannover , only to Hamburg , and <URL> 's cheapest fare comes out at 41 $ ( including the booking fees in small type ) . The best train route is via Basel ( which you can <URL> by a <URL> <URL> ) ; this requires going through Switzerland ( which may be a problem for some visa types ) . ( While there are both an SNCF ( French railways ) station ( Basel/B âle SNCF ) and a DB ( German railways ) station ( Basel Bad Bf ) in Basel , they are separated by a few hundred meters of Switzerland . The SNCF station is next to the Swiss railway station , Basel SBB . Since Switzerland has joined <URL> , border checks are no longer systematic and Shengen visas are valid . ) At this time , the 44 $ rate from Basel Bad to Hannover is available if you travel near the middle of the day . Book early , as prices will rise towards the standard fare ( 119 $ ) as the travel day approaches . Many discount rates are also valid from Basel SBB ( which is where the bus from the airport drops you ) . There 's also a discount rate for international tickets from and to Germany , <URL> , but I 'm not sure if it 's available from Basel . There 's a direct night train as well ; it 's more expensive than the day train but can be less expensive than the day train plus a night in a hostel . If you need to avoid Switzerland , take a bus to Saint-Louis then French regional trains to Mulhouse and on to Strasbourg . You can look up the times , but not book , on the <URL> ( Saint-Louis is " St-Louis ( Haut Rhin ) " ) . You can look up times and prices on the <URL> ( French only as far as I can see ) ; there are no discounts for advance purchase on regional trains , so buy your ticket when you arrive at the station .
Smog is becoming more of a problem with urbanization , especially in developing countries with fewer restrictions on emissions control . ( <URL> ) In cities like Beijing , where it 's a serious problem , there 's often a government or city board that monitors it and provides warnings . In Beijing , that 's the The Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center . Usually when smog levels are high or dangerous , they 'll release a statement . So if you 're concerned , keep an eye or ear out for their announcements . What to do about it ? Well one government , at least , has provided some suggestions . The Ministry of Environment ( MoE ) in Canada , produced a website on <URL> . The key points : avoid exertion outdoors replan activities for when smog levels are lower stay away from high traffic areas ( exhaust fumes make it worse ) stay in a well-ventilated place drink plenty of fluids if you experience any symptoms ( shortness of breath , etc ) seek medical attention ! They also have information on how you can help to reduce levels ( on the same page ) .
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
Yes , you do need one . The US does n't share the concept of " in international transit " that a lot of other countries have . When you step off a plane on US soil [ * ] , you must clear US customs and immigration . Only then can you proceed to board your next flight . The DHS have an entry about this in their <URL> : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require travel authorization if they are only transiting the United States in route to another country ? Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require either a travel authorization or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the travel authorization application in ESTA , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination location in the address lines in the Address While In The United States field on the application . . [ * ] In a few places ( such as Canada an Ireland ) , they have juxtaposed border controls and you end up clearing US customs and immigration before boarding the plane . Either way , you still need to clear immigration on an international connection .
In some airline examples , it 's only when you get to check in - either online or in person , that the passport details are requested . Before then you 'd receive only a booking reference number , and you may be asked for your name and other identifying details ( as you 've stated Expedia did ) . The booking number is enough to confirm it was your ticket , and at check-in , the passport details will be entered , either by you or the airline staff at the counter .
If you go to Hostelbookers ( generally a bit cheaper than Hostelworld ) and search by price , <URL> . In the high season when I was there last year it was still possible to walk into some hostels and get a bed , but not guaranteed , especially around weekends when more people travel and use them .
The best way to find out whether you need a reservation on a certain train is to look up the train in a rail planner . I use the <URL> for this , as it is easy to use and gives good information . Enter the cities you want to travel and adjust date and time of day , if traveling more than a few months from the time you check , just pick a random date but try to use the same day of the week , and hit search . In the results you will find trains with an R , a grey dot with a white R means compulsory reservation , they also have a different R for recommended reservation . Click on the orange arrow before the results and you get details . The train you mention was in the results I got without reservation notice with it , so you can get on it without a reservation , also when you hold a rail pass . For first class travel I might not bother with reservations but for second class long distance travel I do make them when possible . Trains do tend to fill up , also when you do not expect them to .
Per the <URL> , Egyptian citizens generally do need a visa to transit either landside or <URL> in London but can be exempted in some cases . Travelling to the US is one of those cases , having an EEA residence permit is another one . You might be eligible for the ' transit without visa concession ' if : you arrive and depart by air have a confirmed onward flight which leaves within 24 hours have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : [ ... ] you have a valid uniform format residence permit issued by an EEA state The first three conditions must be fulfilled to qualify , which seems to be the case for you . Your Greek residence permit gives you the right to enter Italy as both countries are part of the Schengen area ( I am assuming you have a <URL> , if not then this answer might not apply ) . But you only need to fulfill one of the other conditions in the list ( in fact , it seems impossible to fulfill them all ) and you told us that you do fulfill one of them ( namely having a residence permit by an EEA state , as Greece is indeed a member of the EEA ) . So flying to Italy instead of the US should not be a problem if you fulfill the other relevant conditions . That said , asking the embassy or even applying for a visa can not hurt if you want to be absolutely sure ( the visa does cost something ) . You can also ask your airline , as they will want to check your visa status before carrying you to the UK .
I would say it is likely possible but it is fairly short . As you say you will need to leave the secure area of the airport , collect your luggage and go through luggage drop off , passport control and security . Waiting for your luggage should not take too much time , but 10 minutes is the least to expect . Most of the time non of the lines on the way in will be long , but three times 10 minutes will eat up most of your time . And it is not unlikely there are more delays when things go wrong . Add the walking times , and you are almost out of time without any delays . EasyJet can be late , they do not promise to get you there on the minute , just to get you there . With the later flight out of Schiphol , a delay of a few hours will not be a problem , but with the early flight a 30 minute delay can be too much . I would go for the later flight , 6 hours in Schiphol is not too bad . If it is more than 6 hours you might consider going out of the airport if your incomming flight is on time . I guess KLM city hopper will not allow you to change to a later flight without paying costs if the EasyJet flight is late . If the tickets are cheap you could buy a ticket for both the early and a later flight .
end question
start question
Cities in Europe to visit during the end of October ?
Sevilla should be very nice , and you can organize a trip to Cordoba and/or Granada if you wish . Note that if you want to see Alhambra in Granada you should really book tickets over Internet more than a month before travel .
Everything you need to know is on the airport 's <URL> . The short answer is yes , easily . The fastest , but most expensive , way is just to take a taxi . Follow the signs to the taxi rank , should take around 20 to 30 mins to get into town and budget around 25 pounds one way . You can pick up any black cab on the way back . Trams are 8 pounds return , run every ten minutes or so ( officially every 8 to 12 minutes ) and go down Princes Street which I 'm guessing is the <URL> you wish to go to . You can get off on the terminus or just after it turns off Princes Street . Journey time is around 35 minutes . Similarly the Airlink bus is 50p cheaper , takes about as long , runs about as often and stops at Waverly which is a short walk . There are local buses that are much cheaper , but they take a long route and stop a lot , I doubt it 's worth it . So , even if you want to get back to the airport two hours before departure you 'd still easily manage two and a half to three hours in the city . Time enough to go shopping and grab a bite to eat . Of course you 'll have to clear security when you return to the airport , and this can take a looong time during peak hours . They 've redone the security area so it 's faster now but it can get very busy . Also if you 're pulled over for further screening you may need to wait in a queue for that . Basically I would n't try cutting it too close . I 'm also assuming that you can legally enter the UK . I guess any big bags will left on the plane but for what it 's worth there 's a <URL> service at Edinburgh airport . There 's also one at <URL> but the airport one is cheaper .
Maui Weather Is Very Localized Weather on Maui is very localized , so the average temperature does n't really tell the whole story . Also , the rain tends to fall all at once like a flash food , so the quantity of rain is n't that relevant except for the windward shore ( i.e. Hana ) where it rains all the time . Key Aspects Determining the Weather You Will Experience on Maui In my experience here 's what you need to know about weather for Maui : The weather on the windward shore ( i.e. Hana and the road to it ) is wet and not hot . Unless you stay in Hana you can comfortably drive to most of the island on a day-trip basis , particularly if you stay in Kihei area . There is good weather ( sunshine , little wind , warm temperature ) somewhere on the island almost every day . It is relatively common for any one part of the island to have sort of lousy weather ( by tropical standards ) for a week at a time . Your Strategy Will Determine Your Odds of Experiencing Good Weather Assuming you 're not staying in Hana , you 've got two basic strategies that will determine the weather that you experience . Strategy 1 : You rent a car and drive to wherever the weather is good every day . Likely Outcome : You 'll enjoy a hot beach every day -- you just wo n't know which one until the day of . Worst Case : You 'll have one or two days of bad weather . Strategy 2 : You stay in one place all day every day . Likely outcome : You 'll have a few good and a few bad weather days . Worst Case : The weather is miserable for your entire stay . Recommended Clothing Even for those who are cold most of the time , and even when it 's raining , it is rare that long sleeves are required . ( The one exception is at elevation on Haleakala -- temperatures decline all the way to freezing as you reach the top the crater . ) My wife and I have been on several multi week trips to maui at all times of the year and have never needed more long pants than those worn on the plane . We normally wear short sleeves and swim gear ( i.e. bikini or board shorts ) Then we use cotton hoodies and hats or <URL> to regulate body temperature up , or go shirtless and into the water to regulate down . Sun Exposure Maui is pretty close to the equator which has two effects : the peak midday sun is very high and intense the days are fairly short so the peak is also short In other words , Hawaii has an extreme peak of UV exposure in the middle of the day . That peak is difficult to manage even with sunscreen , hats , and sleeves ; particularly if you are hard-starting a tan . This is demonstrated by the many tourists you 'll see with sunburns on the top side of their bodies . If you stay in the shade between 11a and 2p you 'll have a much lower likelihood of burning . Water Temperature The ocean water often feels cold when you get in , this is because your skin temperature is typically high in Maui , so <URL> when you first get in . Once you are in the water , it is warm enough to stay indefinitely unless you are completely sedentary . Many swimming pools in Maui are not heated and seem to be noticeably colder than the ocean . I usually ca n't stay in these unheated pools indefinitely because they are too cold .
There are a lot of options . It really depends on your preference , but my list of cities you can always visit no matter what season : Amsterdam ( the Netherlands ) Maastricht ( the Netherlands ) Delft ( the Netherlands ) Brugge ( Bruges ) ( Belgium ) Monschau ( Germany ) Edinburgh ( UK ) Grenada ( Spain ) Barcelona ( Spain ) Funchal ( Portugal )
Promoting comments to an answer ... Looking at the ever useful <URL> , there are three typical routes . One is via Turkey , Syria and Jordan . My understanding of the current situation in Syria is that this one is out . Next up is a direct ferry from Greece , but that is n't running currently . Finally there are suggestions that you can get a ferry from Cyprus on to Israel , I 'd suggest you try looking into that . If you wanted to get to Jordan avoiding Syria , then you 'd have to go through Iraq , which is n't any better ! I think you 'll have to consign yourself to not overlanding it via Turkey any time soon . Ferry in is your best bet . One other possible option is via Egypt . Friends in Egypt tell me that the situation in the country is much better now , however relations between Egypt and Israel are n't great ( to say the least ... ) . That 'd likely mean taking the <URL> and then onwards by land to the border ( and hope it 's open ) . Snag is , that ferry is reported to have issues at the moment too , as it normally stops in Syria on the way Looks like your only bet is the Cyprus ferry , assuming <URL> is telling the truth about it running at the moment ...
I 'm sure there is another one nearer to your destination , but at least in <URL> , there is a sign for sure . I pictured it personally last summer . <URL> I found a German page that has picture the same road sign as I did :
As with everything else in China - if you go to a place that is opened for tourists , be prepared to see a lot of them . You can usually avoid the hordes by going on a weekday ( as opposed to weekend ) , avoiding national holidays , going early in the morning and picking a place that is less-known ( pick # 3 , # 4 , ... place as opposed to # 1 , # 2 place ) . That being said , the great wall is a very popular destination and the virgin places are harder to find . But - being that long ( 6500km ? ) - there is logically quite a lot of choice if you 're looking for a more unique experience than the " Disneyland " you see at Badaling or Mutianyu . Here are a few options : Go to Jinshanling . Although a tourist destination as well , it is less crowded . Also , you can keep walking on the wall for very long - until you reach unrestored sections , where you are practically alone . You can get there in quite a few ways : Easiest is : Get to Miyun ( by public bus from Dongzhimen ) , then get a minubus to Jinshanling for 200-300 RMB ( need to bargain ) . Very good if you are many people , because the 200-300 gets divided and it turns out pretty cheap actually . Take a train from Beijing to Gubeikou ( for example train 6453 from Beijing North at 06:38 arrives in Gubeikou at 10:50 ) and then a minubus . Here is the list of all trains that go through Gubeikou <URL> - be aware that Gubeikou is not listed in the official timetable , and you might not even be able to buy tickets for Gubeikou directly , but trains do stop there and you can buy tickets for the next station - Luanping - and just hop off at Gubeikou . I returned from Gubeikou to Beijing by train once and even the staff at the train station insisted that the train does n't stop - but I insisted to wait anyway , and the train stopped indeed . Take a bus from Sihui long distance bus station ( which is just south of Sihui subway station ) . I went this way once . Was planning to go to Gubeikou , but the driver insisted that it 's not on the way ( even if it was listed in the timetable ) . Turns out he wanted to take the expressway , which was a bit of a detour from Gubeikou indeed , but he let me get off very close to Jinshanling . Go to Jiankou . Probably one of the most breathtaking sections - highly favored by photographers . But be prepared for some serious ( and dangerous ) hiking on the crumbled wall . I only went there by car , so I do n't know about other options - but seems you can get there by bus : <URL> . Go by yourself to any other section - never mind if it has a name or not , it 's opened to tourists or not . I highly recommend you this book : <URL> . It lists plenty of locations on the great wall and detailed instructions on how to get there . As for the second question : You are allowed to walk on the sections opened to the tourists . Besides that - walking or camping on the wall is technically illegal , but you will probably have no problem ( worst case you get a fine ) . And hey , camping on the great wall is awesome !
Nowhere . Even entering Ireland would require an ID with a photo on it ( and airlines flying there typically insist on passports ) . Edit : the comment is right , I was thinking of the ferries which do require some photo ID ( anecdotal evidence suggests , however , even a library card is enough ) . So yes , you can get to Ireland by driving in from Northern Ireland .
There is <URL> related to various topics like Ataturk , Islam , etc. . Apparently there have been additional censorship and limiting of access to social networks as Twitter and Facebook but people have gotten around that too according <URL> and <URL> .
According to the <URL> in your question , you do seem to <URL> of a B-1 visa : If you apply for a B-1 / B-2 visa , you must demonstrate to a consular officer that you qualify for a U.S. visa in accordance with the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act ( INA ) . Section 214 ( b ) of the INA presumes that every B-1 / B-2 applicant is an intending immigrant . You must overcome this legal presumption by showing : That the purpose of your trip to the United States is for a temporary visit , such as business , pleasure , or medical treatment That you plan to remain in the United States for a specific , limited period of time Evidence of funds to cover your expenses while in the United States That you have a residence outside the United States , as well as other binding social or economic ties , that will ensure your return abroad at the end of your visit You may need a letter from the company that you are interviewing with , stating that they have invited you to their office for a professional matter . You will also ( per the second item on the list above ) be required to show your return ticket to Russia to prove that your stay in the US is specific and limited . I suggest talking to whoever scheduled your interview to see if they have experience with international candidates ( many companies can help their job candidates figure out what the necessary paperwork is ) , and keep trying to get in touch with the US embassy near you . It seems pretty clear that B-1 is the type of visa you need , but it 's always best to make sure with the US government directly .
( Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor , etc ) Ebola is not contagious in the same way as , say , influenza outbreaks . It 's a horrible contagious disease , but it requires an exchange of bodily fluids for transmission - particularly blood , sweat , sexual fluids , vomit , bile etc. . Transmission usually occurs in close proximity - between family members , sexual partners or others sharing accommodation , through medical contact , or contact with improperly-treated deceased . Check your own government 's travel advice : but for an example , the ( very cautious ) UK government are currently <URL> let alone Morocco - here 's their <URL> : The risk to most travellers is very low ... Transmission of Ebola can only occur when there is direct contact with the blood or body fluids of an infected person , animal , or objects , such as needles , that have been contaminated with blood or body fluids . As for Morocco , not only is it the other side of the Sahara to the Ebola outbreak , the areas between ( Northern Mali , Western Sahara , South West Algeria ) are unstable barely populated areas with banditry and very little travel or trade . If ebola was to spread to Morocco , it would almost certainly be by plane travel , which is a ) closely monitored and b ) no more likely to arrive at Morocco than any other country that flies to Guinea . Those Ebola horror stories from the past that people love to share , of terrifyingly fast-spreading outbreaks , usually involve poorly prepared hospitals and communities responding in ways that aid transmission , such as re-using needles , traditional burial practices such as embalming bodies , and treating the sick without taking appropriate precautions . There have been major efforts since then to ensure medical facilities are better trained . You 'll see from news reports that even in the countries most effected , the numbers of people affected are ( so far , touch wood ) low . If you were going to one of the country where there were some cases of ebola and you were worried , these might be sensible precautions : Take similar precautions as you would to avoid HIV infection ( no unsafe sex or shared needle use , avoid other exchanges of bodily fluids ) Consider additional precautions to avoid exchanging sweat . Maybe skip the gym . If you 're exceptionally worried or there were reports of medium-sized outbreaks while there , and you wanted to feel like you were being extra-cautious : you might want to make more effort to maintain personal space and maybe avoid skin contact such as shaking hands , you might want to wash your hands more than usual and consider using <URL> physical contact with people or things that have been in close contact to other people before touching food or your face , ... but even these might be a bit excessive unless you were right in an outbreak , in which case there would probably be an evacuation plan . I 'll end with a quote in the USA Today article <URL> from a director of virology at the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit : " You probably could n't get Ebola if you went to Conakry [ capital of Guinea ] now if you tried " If it was me , I 'd keep an eye on the news , and I 'd take normal health precautions , but would n't let worries spoil the trip .
As far as I can establish from Wiki , there are seven famous stepwells in India : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They look fantastic , I 'll have to get myself to India sometime soon !
What criteria would you use to label people xenophobic ? And would these criteria really reflect your own experience visiting these places ? In <URL> , the criterion is the answer " strongly/somewhat disagree " to the statement " The presence of foreigners is good for the city " in the EU survey " Perception survey on quality of life in European cities " . While the question does fit with the definition of xenophobia , it does n't really reflect the experience of visiting these cities as a tourist , assuming the sample size is sufficient for a meaningful analysis ( which is most unlikely ) People tend to be a big part of the reactions they get . Some people can travel just about anywhere and enjoy a great welcome while others go to the same places and are endlessly disappointed , scammed ... Any broad generalization on the matter is more likely to cause problems than it is to help travelers . You would be better served by making a list of countries you are interested in and doing some more detailed research on those . Check out what scams are frequent . Check out if people complain of double pricing . Check out if formal segregation between locals and foreigners . Read accounts of foreigners who travel cross country by bike/motorbike as they will usually give you a good idea of how they were perceived by people they met . etc. . It will give you a far better picture of the situation than some superficial xenophobia index .
Yes , the regulations did change both in the US and in Europe . There is an older question about <URL> , where I recently added an <URL> explaining the change of rules of both the <URL> and the EASA . For your specific case with Swiss , the change by the EASA is responsible . Their <URL> states : The EU 's Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) has today updated its guidance on the use of portable electronic devices on board ( PED ) , including smartphones , tablets and e-readers . It confirms that these devices may be kept switched on in " Flight Mode " ( non-transmitting mode ) throughout the journey ( including taxiing , take-off and landing ) without a risk to safety . and then goes on The updated safety guidance published today refers to portable electronic devices ( PED ) used in non-transmitting mode , better known as " flight mode " . It allows , for the first time , the use of personal electronic devices in flight mode in all phases of the journey , from gate to gate . Swiss adopted this and reflected it in their regulations starting May 1 , 2014 . See this <URL> for example . Other European airlines are also starting to permit this . I am however not sure how the rules changed in other parts of the world .
The hospital will want to verify your ability to pay before admitting you . And as your insurance provider is outside the country , they would likely want a local representative to confirm payment services are available within the country . A fair number of " travel insurance " issuers work through just a few actual coverage underwriters . And the bigger underwriters maintain offices in major countries around the world . So knowing who actually underwrites the insurance coverage and their local office number could help in the situation you encountered . But having the phone number is not a guarantee , as some travel insurance policies do require you to pay up front and be reimbursed by filing a claim afterwards . In terms of being refused admittance due to lack of a means of payment , this depends on the nature of your visit . As Choster mentioned hospitals have a mandate to provide primary medical care in an emergency , but this applies primarily to life threatening emergencies . A private hospital can refer less serious cases to the regional public hospital where indigent care is provided .
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
I was just reading an <URL> : " The <URL> travel gurus suggest it 's best to buy airplane tickets mid-day on a Tuesday or Wednesday . "
So , I called Air Canada and they said we are wrong . The 2 baggage policy from my International Flight would only apply if I was travelling with connections . As I 'm stopping over some cities , those will all be domestic flights , applying the domestic flight rules .
When in doubt , follow the instructions given by the foreign consulate . You ca n't really go wrong ; worst case , they 'll tell you what to do and it should n't be a radical difference from the posted information . They seem to process things very quickly , and the process is very similar to the process for getting a US visa from Canada ( which I 've done ) . So I will answer as if you have not read the page you linked :P Yes , <URL> . <URL> ( possibly now outdated ) has the details for the " L " tourist visa . Previously the submission requirements included : Your US passport and a copy of its information page A photo of yourself , subject to the usual requirements of size etc. . The completed visa application form $ 130
We stayed in a kibbutz at Ein Gedi which was nice . I liked that we avoided the big ' glitzy ' hotels on the dead sea and while it was n't luxurious it was very comfortable . Plus , it was interesting to learn more about kibbutz life which is a big part of the culture in Israel and we were close to the Ein Gedi spa where we took a dip in the dead sea . We stayed two nights , arriving the first afternoon from Petra and had enough time to go to the dead sea before dinner . Then we spent half of the next day hiking up to a nearby waterfall and the other half back at the spa . The next morning we headed back toward Jerusalem .
end question
start question
How close can one get to Eldborg with public transportation ?
Website you mentioned in the question , covers <URL> . Also , bus operator has a handy <URL> tool . What you probably want to search , is the route from <URL> . You will have to switch buses at Borgarnes ( from no. 57 to no. 58 ) . Make sure the driver will drop you off where you want though . You can also try hitchhiking from Borgarnes . In the summer there are a lot of tourists and Snaefellsnes peninsula is quite popular destination . Also , make sure to be dropped off at the road to the farm south of Eldborg ( Snorrastadir ) and take an " official " trail from there . As far as I recall , there is a fence around the crater area ( it 's nature 's reserve I think ) and the terrain around it is quite difficult . You can also sleep at this farm if need be - there is camping site , showers , kitchen etc. . EDIT : I highly recommend to use this instead of Google maps , it is just much better ( you can see the trails etc. ) : <URL>
Generally speaking , no , that 's not allowed . The relevant Schengen regulation does leave the door open in special circumstances , but that 's not how French consulates traditionally work . You have to apply to the consulate serving your place of residence and can not simply choose one that 's convenient for you , even in the same country . However , it does not hurt to ask , either by trying to contact the NYC consulate directly or by lodging an application at another consulate , explaining why you do that ( you can write a short letter to join to your application ) . Since it 's a reasonable reason and it 's out of your control , they might agree to see it as a valid justification to apply article 6 ( 2 ) of the Schengen visa code but it 's really up to them ( see also <URL> and <URL> ) . Some practical tips : Always be congenial and to-the-point in your communication , do not suggest you feel entitled to something or get angry -- even if you have good reasons to ! -- but stand your ground and do n't be obsequious either and you might get lucky . But it 's a long shot .
" Sir/Ma ' am , no thank you . " or " Sir/Ma ' am , I am not interested . " Followed by ( if needed ) " Sir/Ma ' am , I am sorry , but I specifically requested and was given this seat . I am not willing to change to another seat for any reason . Perhaps someone else might wish to help you . "
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
It turns out one can view their bus ticket on <URL> : Enter the flight confirmation number along with the email used on Wizzair.com to reveal the E-ticket : I think they 're supposed to send out a notification 3 days before the flight takes place , but there 's no need to wait for it . If the ticket does n't show up on P-Airbus . com , it 's possible to receive it by contacting the transfer service support at wizzair@wizztransfer.com .
Now that we 've cleared up the fact that the document is a work permit , I 'll assume it 's an I-766 Employment Authorization Document ( <URL> indicate that the card itself says " Employment Authorization Card , " and that the indication " Form I-766 " is found on the back of the card ) . According to the TSA , this document can be used to board a flight . The list is at <URL> , and the last entry , as of this writing , is Immigration and Naturalization Service Employment Authorization Card ( I-766 )
This Havataş bus appears to be new ( it 's certainly new to me ) , so I ca n't comment on their service . Istanbul 's public transit does not run regularly at night but the buses to Atatürk Airport are fortunately one of the exceptions . If you use the clunky ( in terms of interface and translation ) İETT <URL> website , you 'll find that there is a public transit option involving a change of bus that will get you to Yenikapı on time : You can only search on exact strings with correct accents so " Ataturk " and " Yenikapi " wo n't give you any results . The trip as quoted by the website will cost you four bus tickets which you 'll have to find , unless the bus drivers accepts cash ( technically they do n't sell tickets on the bus , but most drivers will actually do so by carrying electronic tickets which they sell privately ) . You might want to look into whether the 03:30 96T from does n't just continue through directly to as I expect it does , or if the 96T from at 05:36 did n't start at the airport . If nothing else , you 'll save yourself 2 bus tickets and an hour and a half sitting outside a mosque ( cami = mosque ) at night . Whatever you do make sure you have a backup plan because you ca n't trust the İETT website ! Keep an eye out for the Havataş bus since it 'll leave from the same place as the city buses ( but do n't get on the similarly-named Havaş bus ! ) . You should also be ready to abandon the whole public transit idea for a taxi at if you start running into problems . It 's not actually that far , so it wo n't run up too much of a fare .
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
Mike Brant is buried in the Sde Yehoshua Jewish Cemetery in Haifa , also called Mahane ( camp ) David or Neve David after the neighborhood it located next to it . The Cemetery can be seen <URL> . There are two bus stations , one beneath it and one above it , different busses go to each station , so you should decide what entrance you need before . The location of the stations is : The red circle is the above station and the blue , the below . To find out what busses go there you can check the <URL> . The station in the german colony is called German Colony : Kiryat Eliyahu , Sderot Ben Gu ... ( the main street ) or German Colony : Yitskhak Sadeh . The station above ( red ) the cemetery is called Kfar Samir Cemetery : Military Cemetery , as can be seen from the picture , there are several stations there , and you do n't need the military cemetery , but the civilian cemetery , which is the next station after the military cemetery , you can ask the driver to tell you what station you need . The station below ( blue ) the cemetery is called The Old Cemetery : Sderot ha-Hagana , there is only one station there . I could find the exact location of the grave in the cemetery however , only a picture of the grave : ( <URL> ) There are more pictures of the grave online . Sadly I could n't find the exact location of the grave , only that it 's located near a wall , but it is n't clear what wall it is , and if it 's a wall separating the different cemeteries , or a bounding wall .
Picking a random date in the future , <URL> shows that flying to Larnaca and then going by airport shuttle is probably the cheapest option in terms of paying . However , if you 're searching elsewhere for flights , check out both Larnaca and Ercan as options , and flying out of both CDG and ORY in Paris , as they seem to produce quite different prices . Other than that , you 're down to hitching or cycling - driving and taking a ferry looks extremely exorbitant !
It depends on if you are a visitor or if you are a Californian resident . Visitors are allowed to use their foreign driver 's licence without limitation . If you become a resident of California , you must obtain a Californa driver 's license within 10 days . Source : <URL>
Traveling with a power-strip is an old trick for avoiding to carry multiple plug adaptors , but going from the US to Europe you need to be a little careful . Electricity in the US is ~ 110 volts , whilst in much of the rest of the world it 's 200-250 volts . Although power boards/power strips are generally passive , and thus the number of volts should not have any impact , many of them do include various types of fuses or additional circuitry ( eg , USB ports ) that could potentially have issues with higher voltages . If you were to plug multiple high-current devices into a power board ( eg , a hair dryer ) it 's also possible that you could draw more watts than the board is designed to support . There are a few products that are specifically designed for travel , and designed to support both 110 and 240 volts , such as the <URL> range ( Note : Amazon does n't say it , but the manufacturer has confirmed that these items are designed for up to 250 volts ) Note that going the other way is far less of a problem - a power board designed for 250 Volts will work fine in the US - I have several where I have taken an Australia power strip , removed the Australian plug and put on a US plug so I do n't even need an adapter to use it !
You can look up a comparable flight for today on <URL> . This is best done as close to your date of departure as possible , as terminal use may change occasionally . You can usually see tomorrows flights as well . For example : <URL> <URL> The websites of the respective airports will also usually have this information , especially the outbound airport . Terminal info on arrivals varies between airport websites .
Visa typically go in ( or are used in conjunction with ) a travel document ( that 's actually an explicit requirement in countries I am familiar with , I do n't know Mexican law but official websites suggest it 's the same there , see below ) . So even if you somehow got a visa , that would n't solve the passport problem . But having a green card should exempt you from any Mexican visa requirement so at least the visa should not be an issue , the travel document is . The <URL> indicates that travelers require a " Passport or valid identification and travel that is valid under international law " . If you ca n't get a passport , that would mainly leave the <URL> and the <URL> . In the US , <URL> but not the former ( see comment ) . The US also issues something called a <URL> but as far as I can tell , it 's just some ad hoc document that would allow the person to reenter the US , it might not be " valid under international law " as far as Mexico is concerned . Still , <URL> and <URL> suggest that it is in fact accepted as a travel document by many countries so it could be another solution . If that does not work , yet another solution could be to get a US Re-entry permit ( for the return to the US ) and some form of " laissez-passer " from the Mexican authorities ( no idea if they issue something like that or how much it costs but some countries do ) . Both the refugee travel document and the re-entry permit are listed as WHTI-compliant travel document by major US airlines like <URL> and <URL> so flying should be no problem , provided you have the right to enter Mexico . None of this is particularly cheap or easy , being a refugee typically sucks . Considering that this is a pretty atypical case , I would try to check everything ( including a potential visa requirement in spite of the green card ) with the Mexican authorities as soon as possible .
There are several ways , but it does n't really matter . First there are several ways US immigration can know these things . You might have been on a flight to the country in question . Or the US might find out from one of their intelligence partners . Your own country probably knows you made the visit , if you exited the country on your way there . But that 's not the point of the exercise . They really do n't care about someone who has visited Syria as a tourist . The targets of this measure are people that the US suspects of having links to terrorism , but no real evidence . They know enough about those people to know that they have visited the countries in question , so they ca n't evade the measure by lying . People visiting these countries for legitimate reasons are just collateral damage . The second point is that if you do n't declare your visit on the ESTA , and US immigration knows or find out about it , you are guilty of lying on an immigration form . That 's going to get your VWP privileges removed , and make it much harder for you to get a visa in the future . That 's just fine by them as it gives them a reason to exclude someone acting suspiciously without needing any evidence of wrongdoing . Lying on an application form is a great way to get yourself in trouble .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
end question
start question
If my Schengen visa insurance expires on the day of my departure ?
In my experience , travel insurance usually covers you until the date of your planned return home , or the actual date when you return home , whichever is later . This generally only applies if your delay is caused by something out of your control that is covered by your policy . So , if you fall ill on the last day of your trip and have to be taken to hospital , your travel insurance should also cover the time you have been delayed . After all , that 's what you bought it for . I can not recommend strongly enough that you read the fine print for your insurance policy so that you understand what it does and does not cover . You should make sure your insurance end date is the date when you plan to actually step back into the front door of your house . Not , as you imply , the date when your flight departs from Europe .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
It 's perfectly normal to stay in several Schengen countries and arrive/depart from different countries , the Schengen area has been created to make things like that easier . You do n't need to worry about the plane tickets per se but you do need to present a coherent itinerary . Explain why you want to go to both countries , what you will do there ( with evidence like invitation , bookings , etc. as applicable ) and <URL> .
Since there is apparently no " main destination " in your trip , your visa application should be processed by the first Schengen state you will enter , in your case Germany . This is from article 5 of the Schengen visa code ( Regulation ( EC ) No 810/2009 ) : The Member State competent for examining and deciding on an application for a uniform visa shall be : ( a ) the Member State whose territory constitutes the sole destination of the visit ( s ) ; ( b ) if the visit includes more than one destination , the Member State whose territory constitutes the main destination of the visit ( s ) in terms of the length or purpose of stay ; or ( c ) if no main destination can be determined , the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter the territory of the Member States . [ I highlighted the most important bit ] The border between Germany and Austria is an " internal border " , which is why there will be no systematic passport check when landing in Vienna . Frankfurt is where you will cross the external border to enter the Schengen area ( which is called " territory of the Member States " in the official regulation ) .
I do not think that you have any reason to worry . Remember that each country sets its own criteria for visa issuance , and that the criteria are different for different types of visas . France is not part of the United States , and will not be concerned with whether you qualify for the B1/B2 visa . It will be sufficient for them that you have it . Because visitor visas have different requirements than student visas , it 's unlikely that anyone at the French consulate could even guess whether you continue to qualify for the US visitor visa , given that your application to them should be designed to show you meet the requirements for a student visa . There is one thing though . If , while processing your visa application , France determines that you are wanted in the US for a crime , they might notify the US of your location . ( And most likely refuse your visa . )
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
The lottery part is merely for the right to apply for a Green Card , really , so if you are not selected in the lottery it is not considered a failed Visa application . My brother actually won the lottery and could have applied , but his plans had changed since entering and decided not to proceed . You can still use the ESTA and visa waiver stuff in future , in fact you can have more than one visa application outstanding at the same time , according to these imigration lawyers <URL> . It 's probably worth noting however , that having applied for immigration <URL> the US immigration authorities view of any subsequent visa applications , as they will take it as a signal that you wish to migrate to the USA . So if you apply for a tourist visa they make take that into account and decide that your real intent is to stay permanently . This is generally more of a problem for applicants form countries with a high rate of illegal immigration via overstaying short-stay visas , for example , in which I doubt Sweden ranks highly .
The views are pretty sweet from some of the hotels . Here 's one from a room that cost me $ 25 extra for a " falls view room " : Really , it 's from the room : I 'm pretty sure it was the Sheraton . Update : since someone mentioned the Skylon tower , here 's a shot ( on a fairly old cellphone ) from the restaurant . Go up for dinner on a night they have fireworks , and you can see fireworks from above , which is very cool .
Coverage is specific to each policy which can vary greatly for each country so it is hard to generalise , but I 'll generalise anyway and hope it helps . As you mentioned , there are broadly two types of insurance that you need to consider : collision - which covers damage to the vehicle ; and liability - which covers damage you may inflict to others . Since insurance is a high margin area for car rental companies ( at least in the US ) it is smart to do your homework ahead of time and avoid making the decision at the counter The first place to check is your own car insurance policy , if you have one . Generally it includes liability for any car that you drive and not just the car ( s ) that you own , so that which would include a rental car . It may also include collision coverage of rental cars depending on your policy which means that you do not need to purchase any coverage from the car rental company . Some credit cards do include insurance for car rentals as a benefit , but this is specific to the particular credit card program . Call your credit card company to check the details of your coverage . If you do n't have coverage through either of those , you can purchase third-party insurance which is likely to be cheaper than purchasing through the car rental company . Depending on the car rental company , you may on occasion need to provide proof of any external insurance coverage if you decline the rental company 's coverage . Also , in the case of damaging the vehicle , you may be required to pay the rental car company for the damage and then claim it back through your insurance provider . You may also find rental companies selling personal belongings or similar protection . This is generally unnecessary as your belongings are likely covered by either your Homeowners , Contents , or Travel insurance . As a side note -- in my experience , insurance offered by the rental companies in the US is expensive ( e.g. doubles the cost of the rental ) but offers low or even zero deductibles . In Europe , the insurance offered by the rental companies is generally cheaper ( e.g. a couple euros extra per day ) but the deductible is much higher ( e.g. $ 500 - $ 1000 ) and they may require a deposit to cover it ( e.g. a hold on a credit card ) . When I first rented a card in Europe I was shocked by this and was n't prepared to cover the deposit . But now I much prefer it as I no longer have a car insurance policy and hate paying the outrageous rates when traveling back to the US and there is no high deductible option .
The best way to do that on a mobile device is by using <URL> to share your location . Whatsapp can be installed on any smart phone ( even some feature phones comes with it ) , click the " send location " button and the other person will receive an accurate location and once click it will automatically open the navigation application . I personally always use Whatsapp when I need to share location . Other messaging applications also offer the same feature but Whatsapp is like a universal app and most people have it . Anyway , if you want to do it by sharing GPS coordinates in any browser in any device that has a GPS feature , go to <URL> and it will give you your GPS coordinates . Copy and paste the location and send it using any messaging method and let them use either the same page or any other page/app to reach you .
Here 's my understanding ( based on lots of Russian travel ) : You can legally explore anywhere in Russia , except keep the following in mind : 1 ) Do n't forget about registration requirements . If you 're moving around a lot , this is likely a non-issue , but keep all your bus/train tickets , etc. . If you 're using a central hub city for radial day-trips , register in the hub city . 2 ) " Closed cities " : Some cities require a permit to get into ( typically ones with sensitive military-related industry ) . I do n't know whether it 's possible to get a permit unless you e.g. have a close relative there . Some cities ( e.g. many cities in the north of Krasnoyarsk Krai ) are closed only to foreigners , so locals may not know they 're " closed " . There 's a list here : <URL> 3 ) Border areas . Unless you 're in the process of legally crossing the border via an official crossing point , you need a border area permit to be there . The permit is possible to get but takes a long time ( around 2 months ) . Note that in some areas ( e.g. in the Arctic ) some areas may be defined as " border areas " despite being thousands of kilometers from the actual border . 4 ) Due to recent political tensions , I would STRONGLY advise to stay away from anything that is even remotely related to the military or any sensitive industry , especially if you 're carrying a camera , GPS-capable phone , etc. . Also , stay well away from any remote place with especially luxurious houses / " dachas " that appear to be well-guarded . 5 ) Some nature reserves have areas that are forbidden to enter ( or forbidden to enter without a special permit ) for reasons of nature conservation . These are usually marked . With all that said , seeing the little remote villages of " real Russia " can be very fun and rewarding !
Almost certainly your " exit " was recorded when you left the country , despite the fact that they did n't take the card . The airline provides these details to the US government , and they are tracked using that rather than the I-94 itself ( this is one of the reasons that the I-94 cards are no longer used when entering by air ) . Your can confirm this by going to the <URL> and clicking on " get their I-94 Number " . You can then request a " Travel History " which will show all entries and exits from the US . If your exit is correctly recorded then you can simply throw away from I-94 . If the exit has not been correctly recorded , but you have subsequent entries/exits ( which it sounds like you do ) , then you can also safely throw away the I-94 - but I would suggest keeping a copy of any " proof " that you have related to when you left the US on that trip ( eg , copies of flight itineraries , tickets , etc ) just in case it ever becomes an issue - although the odds of that are extremely low . As a more generic answer , if you have not had any subsequent entries to the US then you can post the I-94 back to the US DHS/CBP , as <URL> .
You will not have an extra two months . The visa is valid once it is issued ; even if you do not utilize ( ie , travel ) on the visa . Unless canceled or revoked , a visa is valid until its expiration date . Therefore , a valid U.S. visa in an expired passport is still valid . If you have a valid visa in your expired passport , do not remove it from your expired passport . You may use your valid visa in your expired passport along with a new valid passport for travel and admission to the United States . A visa is a permit to enter the country . It is also not a guarantee of entry ( you can still be denied by border control even if you hold a valid visa ) . Generally on a B1 visa , once you enter the country - you are allowed to stay for 6 months ( sometimes , up to a year on entry ) . For example , you get a visa on July 1st valid for 6 months ; you can travel anytime between July 1st and December 1st - after December 1st , your visa is no longer valid ( even if you did not travel on it ) . It does not matter if you fly on July 2nd , or November 2nd - the visa expiry does not change .
You can get Biometrics for a Canadian Visa done at any USCIS Application Support Center ( ASC ) . The list of <URL> . You can find the instructions for attending an ASC on the <URL> - scroll down to the section entitled " If applying from within the United States "
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
I 've had a malfunctioning barcode passport ( those pre-biometric hologrammed ones ) for 10 years . Basically ever since I first got the passport I was unable to successfully scan it anywhere I went . During that timespan I travelled many countries , including and not limited to the US , India and Australia , and it never worked . What happens in case the automatic scan does n't work is that the customs officer tries scanning it again and when that fails too they enter the passport number manually in the system . That 's it . I would say you have nothing to worry about . Unless there are valid reasons for not letting you in the country you should be fine . In case you just want to know if the RFID works you can try reading it using a dedicated reader ( or a compatible mobile phone ) . <URL> but at least you 'll know if the chip responds .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
Be exceptionally polite : ) It did the trick for us . We applied for a Russian single entry business visa in Mongolia , with a Dutch passport . I kept my mouth shut and my girlfriend did the smiling and talking . And no , I 'm not talking about a bribe . Paying money to get things done is something , I feel , should never be encouraged .
Acceptable medical insurance for a schengen visa must meet following criteria : Medical coverage of at least Euro 30,000 ( valid in all schengen countries ) Must cover emergency medical evacuation and repatriation of remains . However some embassies/consulates of Schengen Countries requires a " grace period " which will be added to the validity period . This means that 15 days will be added to your visa 's validity . Please note , that validity period and duration of stay is not the same . An example : if you in your application form applied for a 8 days visa , you will always be given 15 days of grace , in total 23 days . And answer to your first question Does hungary follow the same rule of additional 15 days ? The best answer you can get from Hungry Embassy/Consulate at your home country . Moreover not all Schengen countries applies this requirement and you have already made 23 days travel insurance , does n't matter Hungry requires additional 15 days or not it should be acceptable.It will not be a problem .
end question
start question
Can I drop off carry-on luggage at Heathrow and pick it up later before flight ?
I think I found the answer . Most airport has this facility where you can drop-off ( store ) your carry one and pick it up before flight . There is usually a fee for it . <URL> 9 pounds/day <URL> 20 durham/day
The Airport Limousine ( route # 600 ) bus runs every 18-20 minutes between Seogwipo and the airport in Jeju City express , stopping only at a few select stops , including Jungmun Tourist Resort Complex ( and International Convention Center ) , World Cup Stadium and terminating at the Seogwipo KAL Hotel . These are all usable stops . They 're there for people at the stadium/hotel/resorts to get on the airport limo to the airport , or to get from the airport back to any point . However , if you 're wanting to use it to get from say , stop 2 to stop 3 , there 's no reason for a driver to say ' no you ca n't get off ' . ( That would be , in essence , kidnapping ;) ) You may find , however , that the driver gets frustrated as there 's no way to charge you a partial ticket , but if you 're ok paying the full fare , just say you 're buying a ticket , and then request an early stop . It probably would n't be the most common , or economical use of the bus , however , and it may be worth investigating whether a taxi or regular city bus is n't more useful for short distances , depending on your planned route .
In case of emergency ( which is more likely during take offs and landings ) people should be prepared just in case . So during daytime , opening window shades and putting cabin lights to full makes the eyes used to sunlight so if something goes wrong and passengers need to be evacuated there will not be sudden change in light contrast which might lead to temporary blurred vision . Same thing at night flights , window shades are open and cabin lights are dimmed .
No you ca n't turn up late to check-in on a delayed flight , unless the check-in closing time is delayed along with the departure time . Note that usually this is not the case . The check-in closing time is set relative to the scheduled departure , and usually remains the same , regardless of whether the flight is delayed or not . Hence if you show up at the airport late for check-in , even though you still have plenty of time before boarding due to the flight being delayed , you will be considered as a no-show . This happened to me a few years back on a snowy day in which all inbound and outbound flights to/from LHR were delayed . Several websites and forums mention this ( see <URL> and <URL> ) . However I believe <URL> to be more authoritative : We are unable to check in passengers arriving at the check-in desk after the check-in deadline . These passengers lose their entitlement to be carried on the flight and do not have any right of reimbursement , issue of a credit note or free rebooking . This check-in deadline will remain the same even if the departure of the flight is delayed . ( Emphasis mine ) Other airlines , including Emirates and British Airways , carry no mention of whether the check-in deadline can be modified , probably because they assume that when flights are delayed the check-in closing time does not vary . However they do mention that arriving late for check-in will cause you to be denied boarding in their Terms of Carriage . <URL> says : 6.3 You must comply with the applicable Check-in Deadline . We have the right to cancel your reservation if you do not comply with the Check-in Deadline or , if no Check-in Deadline has been indicated , you fail to check-in prior to closing of check-in for your flight . See also Article 5.7 . <URL> says : 6c ) You must check in by the check-in deadline If you do not complete the check-in process by the check-in deadline , we may decide to cancel your reservation and not carry you . By completing the check-in process we mean that you have received your boarding pass for your flight .
I do n't think any airline would allow you to take that sword as carry-on luggage into the cabin with you . However , you should be able to check it in as luggage ( but it may be considered oversize luggage , which may be an extra fee ) . Just be sure to pack it well ( you can find info about packing actual swords as luggage online , which may be helpful ) .
The situation is a little complicated and there a few things you must consider . First of all I 'm going to tell you about all the legal prospects of this situation and what can happen if then open up your bags and find two packaged phones inside . Take a look at this <URL> already posted here . Now , since these are two packaged phones , despite being underneath your limit of Rs . 33000 , they are items which can be re-purposed by anyone else which quite honestly is what you are doing here because of the fact that you are giving them to your parents . Even though you do n't plan to sell them , you still wo n't take them back with you , so they are technically imported into the country . Now , one second thought , you could take the phones out of the packages and put them either in your suitcase or your hand-luggage . Now , is this fool-proof ? Obviously No . And the reason it is n't is because you are importing things into the country and if they ask you to pay import duty on it , your only argument can be , " Hey these are for my own use ! " Now , if the two phones are packaged , this argument is far less convincing . Otherwise they might let you thru without much issue . Keeping this in mind , if the phones are in your hand luggage and are not packaged , you should be fine . If you decide to take them in your luggage without the packaging or packaging separately in different luggage or something , that would be pretty fine too ! If you do decide to take them as packaged goods , that 's up to your own risk .
I ca n't prove a negative , but as far as I can tell by looking at the sites of A-Line and Marix , the answer is no , they do n't offer any sort of hop-on-hop-off ticket , nor do you get any " stopovers " if you buy a longer ticket . There 's a third option from Amami to Kagoshima , the once-weekly <URL> via the tiny and obscure <URL> ( long on my personal to-do list ) , but this costs even more at & yen ; 11,620 one-way .
Since Cathay is HK ailines and all planes are registered in HK , so they follow HK law . Based on HK Law ( <URL> ) , spearfishing gun is arm . The Sect 2 of the ordinance consider any harpoon or spear gun , however powered or size , as arm . However the law does not rule the ammunition of spearfishing gun . Base on sect 8 , you may take spearfishing gun on CX flight if you stay in restricted area . However , the items should be put in checked luggage , and also <URL> There is no other specific rules related to carry general diving equipment on flight in HK , except gas tank and arms .
The <URL> has a <URL> . This document mentions toy guns as being forbidden in carry-on luggage ( emhpasis mine ) : PASSENGERS AND CABIN BAGGAGE Without prejudice to applicable safety rules , passengers are not permitted to carry the following articles into security restricted areas or on board an aircraft , on either their person or in cabin baggage : guns , firearms and other devices that discharge projectiles -- devices capable , or appearing capable , of being used to cause serious injury by discharging a projectile , including : firearms of all types , such as pistols , revolvers , rifles , shotguns toy guns , replicas and imitation firearms capable of being mistaken for real weapons It would therefore be safe to assume that since both nerf and water gun can be classified as toy guns , neither will be permitted as cabin luggage on board a British Airways flight . To be extra sure <URL> and ask them directly .
From an airport security standpoint I think the helmet should cause no problems in your carry-on . The TSA prohibited item search tool does not mention bicycle helmets . <URL> including motorcycle helmets , which are considerably tougher than bicycle helmets and can be used as an offensive weapon . Interestingly enough , TSA says that motorbike helmets are allowed in carry-on luggage : <URL> The same is also true for other , arguably more potentially dangerous and heavy , helmets including football helmet , welding helmet , lacrosse helmet , etc. . Therefore it is safe to assume that bicycle helmets are allowed too . Now , in terms of carry-on luggage allowance , I think you will be fine . For starters , the combined volume of your small backpack with the helmet attached will most probably be comprised within your maximum allowance . Moreover , I have flown with items strapped to my carry-on backpack multiple times and was never questioned . If worse comes to worse , either jam the helmet inside the backpack , wear it , hang it from your trousers and call it a keychain , or do something so that it does not appear to be part of your carry-on .
<URL> To date it only mentions police checks . Never does it talk about automatic checks . Indeed the motorway vignette is a 2-part sticker . One part is to be stuck to the windshield , whilst the other is to be kept as a proof of purchase and is to be shown when being checked by police . The reasoning here is that it would be somewhat hard to show the proof of purchase to a camera driving by an automatic control . Quoting from the linked site : A proof of payment of the fee is a 2-part sticker . Part one of the sticker is to be placed on the inside of the windscreen . Part two of the sticker is to be retained . [ ... ] During police checks , both parts of the sticker are required . Indeed the rest of the internet seems to agree with this - for example <URL> . It is therefore safe to assume that , to date , the payment of a motorway sticker for vehicles with a gross mass < 3.5 t in Czech Republic is checked only when one gets stopped at a manned police control point . In other words , there seem to be no automatic controls for such vehicles . Lorries and other > 3.5 t gross mass vehicles however have their own automatic toll-payment mechanism , <URL> . Having said this , at the time of writing the penalty for driving with an unvalid/expired vignette or without one are of ( <URL> ) : Fine of up to CZK 5,000 or a penalty notice of up to CZK 500,000 in administrative proceedings .
I have met the " fruit sniffing " dog several times and am aware ( from watching Border Security ) of currency-sniffing and firearms-sniffing dogs in addition to the classic drug-sniffers . Generally , these dogs sniff people 's bags more than people . ( The Canadian beagle that met my flight from the Caribbean once sat [ the dog 's signal ] about my bag , but the handler did n't even want to look in the pocket when I said there was no fruit in it . The Australian german shepherd did n't sit and the handler was not interested in looking to confirm when I said there was peppermint gum in the pocket the dog smelled at the most . ) [ As an aside , in addition to being more interested in bags than people , the vast majority of these dogs work Arrivals not Departures and are found in the baggage hall . The chances of someone being sniffed on their way to a plane are very low . Still , since you worry about this , let me also add that they should allow plenty of time to get to the plane so that unexpected stop-and-search moments do n't result in them being paged to get to the gate and almost missing the plane . I found <URL> that specifically shows cash dogs working in Departures at Heathrow . Watch it and you will hear the handlers tell people " let the dog sniff your bags " ( not you ) and see that the dogs do not touch the people . You can also see people putting backpacks and other worn-high bags such as purses down towards the ground to let them be sniffed . ] My recommendation to you ( and it helps other things as well ) is to have your pockets as empty as possible . In my case that means completely empty . Everything , even my boarding pass , money , and cellphone , is in my carry on bag . Make sure that none of your bags [ carryon or checked ] contain fruit , meat , drugs , thousands of dollars in bank notes , guns , or illicit drugs of course . Also , have a quick chat with your imam to clarify the difference between going over to someone 's home and patting their dog and generally deliberately interacting with a dog vs being in a public place where a working dog approaches you , sniffs you without touching you , and then leaves . The public is not supposed to pat or interact with the sniffer dogs and the dog is not supposed to touch you at all . This conversation may reduce your anxiety about airport dogs a little , which is a good thing , because anxiety in an airport always gets you extra attention . Your imam may also advise you about the washing that is required after a dog has licked ( unlikely with a trained professional ) or nuzzled you or your possessions . If you need to bring something specific to clean up from the dog contact , have it with you in your carryon , in a size and format that wo n't cause issues going through security . Finally if the dog approaches you , put your bag down , stand up , step back from your bag , and hold your arms out a bit - partly to make yourself bigger and partly so your hands are up and away from the dog . Look at the handler , not the dog , and say " please do n't let the dog touch me " - the handler should understand that request and be fine with it .
I recommend you to add one day to your application - there is no problem to stay one day less than you were going to , but you can get real problems if flight will be delayed - if you would n't pass through the customs in time , you can be marked into black list .
You really do n't need to bring it , soy milk is widely available at most any supermarket in Australia . You should be allowed to import soy milk if it 's commercially packaged , but you must declare it to <URL> on arrival , if you fail to declare it you may be subject to fines .
Most major airlines are fairly lax regarding the weight of carry-on bags - even when they do officially publish a limit . Unfortunately for you , AirNZ is an exception . Both Air NZ themselves , as well as the major airports in New Zealand , do frequently check carry-on bags and if they are over 7Kg you will be forced to check them . If your bag looks light then you 'll probably get away with it regardless of weight , but if it even remotely looks like it might be more than 7Kg then there 's a very good chance that it 's going to get weighed and rejected ...
Always follow the marketing airline 's policy , in other words , the airline that sold you the ticket , regardless of which airline is operating the flight . In your case that 's Iberia .
The 6-month passport validity requirement is country-dependent , and I have n't been able to find that requirement on Peru 's embassy and travel websites . Some airlines are also picky about the passport validity time frames . However , the <URL> recommends that you renew your passport at least 9 months before the expiration date , and you are within the 9-month window .
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
The prohibition applies to liquids , gels and aerosols . Since you describe the food as squidgy it will with very high probability be considered a gel and not pass . My advice is to take freeze dried camping foods in your hand luggage . Those are entirely dry and pass without any problems ( source : I do this all the time ) .
Short answer - no , not any more . ( It used to be possible pre-9 / 11 , but is n't allowed now ) To change between terminals airside at Heathrow , you need to go through Flight Connections . After the bit where they can issue boarding passes if you do n't have one , is the part where they check your boarding pass . No boarding pass for a different terminal , no access to the airside shuttle bus . Alternately , if you 're allowed to enter the UK , you could enter the UK in T5 , take the free train connection to T1/T2/T3 and walk the couple of minutes from there to T3 . However , you 'd then be stuck , as they would want to see a boarding pass before letting you into the security queue , and you wo n't have a T3 boarding pass , only a T5 one , so they wo n't let you in . . There is a workaround though if you want to do a ( significant ) amount of shopping . As described in <URL> at the end , Heathrow provides a <URL> . If you contact them in advance about it , they can apparently arrange for the item to be brought to another terminal so you can look at it and purchase . Apparently , if you have a lot of time , and it 's quiet , they might be able to arrange a transfer , but that part is n't guaranteed . That looks to be your only way . Well , other than booking a fully refundable ( check the T&amp;C closely ! ) ticket out of T3 , follow flight connections to T3 for that , shop , go online and cancel the ticket , ask customer services in T3 to " land " you , follow flight connections back to T5 on your onward boarding pass , then collapse in a heap on your return ... !
end question
start question
How can I get from Cuenca , Ecuador to Arequipa , Peru ?
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
Options I found : Fly directly from Singapore to <URL> for circa 90 USD . Bus from Singapore to <URL> with <URL> for circa 3 USD , then direct flight to <URL> with Airasia for circa 40 USD . So a total of circa ** USD ** . Note that <URL> . I took this bus in May 2015 &amp; it took around 1h45 to do the bus journey at a low-peak time , allow at least 3h if travelling on a week end or public holiday . Fly to <URL> ( Malaysia ) for circa 30 USD , then fly to <URL> for circa 30 USD . Found those prices using <URL> . So a total of circa 60 USD Take the ferry to <URL> for circa 22 USD ( 45 min ride ) , then take another ferry to <URL> with the <URL> for circa 25 USD ( this one is a long ride , 6 to 8h ) . As explained in <URL> " To buy the ticket from Dumai , you need to visit a ticket agent who will sort you out -- there 's no need to go to the port to buy a ticket . " , &amp; there does seem to be only 1 ( yes one ! ) ferry per day . So this means potentially having to stay in Batam overnight ( who knows ? ) . Then <URL> for circa 13 USD . So a total of circa 60 USD All in all , my research seem to always point to taking a plane rather than a ferry ... unless you really have a special reason for avoiding planes ( transporting loads of luggages , transporting a bike , fear of planes , or else ) . Here is another good reason not to take the ferry in Indonesia <URL> Note : you must add circa 12 USD to every flight with AirAsia if you have a checked baggage Note regarding trains going from Singapore to Johor Bahru : There 's no point in taking the train to JB , the new terminal is very inconvenient and services are infrequent and unreliable . Take a bus instead . Final note : there is nothing " special " to do in Medan , so if you arrive before 4pm try to plan your journey to your final destination straight from Medan ( typically using a tourist bus or a public bus ) , roads can be dangerous at night so many transports do not work when it 's dark ( after 7pm ) . The hotel/hostel hosting you can provide more info , it 's a typical thing to do . Resources : AirAsia route map : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
There are no direct buses available from Toronto to Boston on any of the major carriers <URL> , <URL> . Rail is also out which will put you based on my estimation of <URL> service into about 17 hour range with transfer in New York Penn Station . So your only option left would be to do a car rental , which may be just as expensive as the flight . Plus border crossing could add enough time to your 9h 30min journey that it will put you over your time limit . It is also possible that there are small bus companies or tour companies that offer the service but I ca n't find anything online .
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
There are n't many flights to El Nido from anywhere , never mind from Cebu or Negros . There used to be a SEAir flight which I 've taken and which was a wonderful experience , taking off from the giant NAIA at Manila in a tiny plane and coming in to land just a few metres above the sea :) You can still fly there on <URL> - but I think resort customers may get priority . <URL> has info on transport to El Nido . Do n't think that the lack of flights shown is due to the page being incomplete - El Nido airfield is just that , a field , and it does n't see much traffic . To cut a long story short , you 'll need to get yourself to Manila and take a ( prebooked ) flight with ITI or any other small airline which may now fly there , or get to Puerto Princesa and go up to El Nido in one of the regular vans . <URL> may also be an option from Manila to PP , if you 're a bit of a masochist . If money is tight , fly Cebu to Puerto and then overland . If money no option , fly to Manila and then to El Nido but do check the flight to El Nido is running and has a seat beforehand ! ( EDIT : ITI website claim the airstrip has been upgraded but so far as I know none of the usual suspects fly there yet - Air Asia , PAL , Cebu Pacific , etc. )
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
The Pacific route is a beautiful route ! Expensive , but beautiful none the less . From the West Coast of the U.S. , you can take Amtrak 's Cascades train ( tel. 800/USA RAIL ; www.amtrak.com ) to Bellingham , Washington ; the dock for the Alaska ferry is quite close to the railroad station . From the east , it makes more sense to use Canada 's Via Rail ( tel. 888/VIA-RAIL ; www.viarail.ca ) . The transcontinental route starts all the way back in Toronto ; you change in Jasper to end up in Prince Rupert , B.C. , where you can catch the Alaska ferry north . <URL> Regardless , your <URL> ; you 'll have to double back East to head North , and you 'll only go as far as Prince Rupert . ( Screenshot from www.viarail.ca ) I would go with if I did n't have a job !
Although the official currency of Peru is , US dollars are widely accepted in many places . I found out three ways to exchange dollars into soles : In banks - the banks have the worst exchange rates and there were always lines . Besides , not all commercial bank exchange money . I do n't recommend this . From street moneychangers - there are people in most cities , they wear blue vests with euro and dollar signs , and they are licensed money changers . They offer better rates than banks and sometimes you can even negotiate the rate ( almost always in Lima , not so often in smaller cities ) . I recommend this In supermarkets - most supermarkets ( like Wong , etc. ) accept payment in USD and give change in PEN . They had the best exchange rates and I frequently paid with large notes to get more money changed . I strongly recommend this . I heard that casinos , which are almost at every corner in Lima , exchange in the same way as supermarkets , and have even better rates .
There are a few companies in Tarapoto that go to Chachapoyas , we asked around and we found Movil tours ( big buses ) and Turismo Selva ( combi ) that went direct to Chachapoyas and Excluciva ( big buses ) and Virgen tours ( combi ) that went to Pedro Ruiz . Pedro Ruiz is a common stop along that route , on the way back we stopped there and flagged a combi type van that took us back to Tarapoto . There 's very frequent vans on that route so it 's always possible to just signal to one and if there 's space they 'll take you . In the end we went with Turismo Selva because they had the earliest departures ( 7am ) and it cost 35 soles .
So , you 've actually ended up asking multiple questions in one which strictly ( [ faq ] ) you should n't do , but I 'll try to address it as one . In relation to getting there in time for your flight , it depends on the airline you take , what they say , and also how much lee-way you want to give your arrival at the airport . However , yes , you can take ground transportation , and depending on what your plans are it 'd be a consideration . You can get buses directly from Flores to Belize , however , if you 're in Tikal , there 's this from <URL> : Don David 's is fantastic - we were there in January . They will be able to arrange all your transport if you need them to . I have rarely met such helpful people ! The buses to Belize run from Flores / Santa Elena but will pick up at El Cruce which is the main road junction about 20 minutes walk from Don Davids . Alternatively , Don Davids will arrange a ride into Flores . The buses run direct to Belize City with just a stop at the border . We used the service in the other direction with a direct bus from Chetumal to Flores via Belize City . The only advantage in going to Flores is that there is more choice of agents but they are all selling tickets on the same bus services . So you could ask your Tikal Inn if they can do the same , if not , wander over to Casa Don David 's and ask them for help . What about driving ? Some kind person has detailed <URL> ( well they went the other way , but just reverse it ) . <URL> ( Tikal Park ) lists a few flight connections that may be of use to you . And someone else <URL> : Finally , there is <URL> , but be aware the discussion is from a few years back , and may not be up to date . Conclusion - if you 're up for an adventure , I 'd go for the bus ride . Driving sounds like too much hassle . But if you have the time , public transport is always a fun time , or a good story . Much more interesting than just another flight .
You can go by train from Wrocław to Oświęcim ( Auschwitz ) and then from Oświęcim to Kraków . The last train from Oświęcim to Kraków is at 20h54 . You can check the train times and fares <URL> . I think that a less stressing way is to go to Kraków first and visit Oświęcim on a day trip from there . Alternatively , if you do not want to go to Kraków first , you could consider to spend the night in Oświęcim . This could be the night before or after the visit .
Being there certainly would increase your chances - as you can go and see the places , meet the estate agents , and call people during day hours . Example : place comes on the market at 9am , calls start at 10am , they could show someone through at lunch and by the time you wake up in the US , it 's gone . I was in Riga in May sorting out my Uzbekistan visa , which took six days . There was a British woman in the hostel looking at places to live in . It was really hard , but with the help of locals ( including the hostel staff ) she was finding more sources , friends of friends who knew of places , and the like . Definitely easier when you 're in a city than from afar . You could also consider <URL> a bit when you arrive , or do what I 'll be doing for Vancouver when I head there soon , and stay in a hostel for a bit . There are some hostels in Riga ( Central Hostel was really nice and good value ) which are n't party hostels , but are very well located , and you 'll make a lot of connections if you talk to the staff . Even going to a Couchsurfing meetup in town could net you some more connections or offers of a place to stay . My recommendation - try from where you are , but accept that it 'll be easier on the ground , and make back-up plans to make connections on your arrival .
Well firstly most buses wo n't go directly to El Calafate . You 'll likely have to change buses , and likely will want to - it 's a long way ! However , a convenient stopping point could be Puerto Madryn ( Chubut ) . It 's a great little beach town , with the Valdez Peninsula - and I kid you not - you can sit on the hostel balcony and point at the whales as they come near the shore ! Some great seafood restaurants too . If you 're going to consider the bus , consider upgrading from Semi-cama to full-cama or cama-suite or whatever the bus company you choose calls it . Semi-cama is seats that partially recline . However for about $ 5 more from Puerto Madryn to Buenos Aires ( that 's the price difference it was for me ) you can upgrade to full-cama , which gives you a seat that folds down into a BED , as well as good food , and tv . If you 're on a strict budget do n't bother , but once I discovered that , wow , it 's so much better for the huge trips . In El Calafate , I also highly recommend the America Del Sur Hostel - it had a spectacular view over the town and Lago Argentina , and you can organise trips to the glacier from their reception ( we did a day tour to the glacier - it 's spectacular ) . Much of the flat part of Argentina is fairly boring scenery , but I liked the coastal route , and once you get into the mountains it 's great . You 'll spot guanacoes ( like llamas ) and rhea ( like ostrich ) and other animals . But I guess it depends on your preference , how you handle seriously-long bus trips , and how much time you have as well . Look into Andesmar ( my favourite ) , El Rapido ( sometimes cheaper ) , Omnilineas and Plusmar .
Get the 4am Southern train service from London Victoria , gets you into Gatwick at 4.46 am There 's also a 4.30 am Gatwick Express that 'll get you in at just gone 5am , but tickets are bit more on that . See <URL> for examples for tomorrow ( well , that URL will always work for the coming Tuesday , but the site has a search ! ) ( There 's also the option to stay in Brighton , and get the <URL> to Gatwick , but you 'll probably find London both easier to get to and cheaper to stay in , even if it lacks a beach ! )
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
end question
start question
Car damage caused by potholes in the EU , what to do ?
[ Disclaimer : my predictions of the behaviour of insurance companies are based on my experience with North American ones . I have no reason to believe European ones are different . ] The word pothole has two meanings . The first is a small area of road a few inches lower than the rest , with sharp edges : This really should n't damage your car . If it does , any insurance company could probably say it was your fault for not driving in accordance with the road conditions . With proper driving , a steady diet of this kind of road might require a " front end alignment " more frequently than usual . It is not worth your time to try to get someone else to compensate you for that . If you break an axle or something else dramatic , it will probably be as a result of improper driving . The second meaning of pothole is a huge round hole that can swallow entire cars : This picture might be fake , but it depicts something that does happen Should you meet one of these , I suspect your insurance company will go after whoever designed , built , and maintained the road , seeking compensation for your damages . They 'll pay you and save you the trouble of pursuing the relevant local government yourself . That 's one of the purposes of insurance .
According to <URL> : If your baggage is damaged , lost or delayed during an easyJet flight , you must advise a member of easyJet ground handling staff at the airport of arrival immediately . In the event of loss or damage to baggage the airline 's liability is normally limited to a maximum of 1,000 <URL> ( approximately # 820 ) . Essentially , it does n't matter whether your airline is low-cost or full-service . ( If I 'm not wrong ) They have minimum obligations for carriage that they must adhere to as declared in their terms and conditions . Baggage handling falls under the purview of airlines and that 's whom you must seek compensation from . In your case , you will have to contact EasyJet but they may argue that baggage damage was not notified to them at the airport , thus allowing them to claim they were not responsible for it . If you have travel insurance of some sort , then it could cover compensations . Alternatively , check if your credit/debit card has travel insurance included .
I am not sure whether it is the cheapest , but <URL> currently has <URL> from many European cities to Delhi , Kolkata , Bangalore , Mumbai or Chennai for 550-600 Euros return . You have to change in Dubai . You can fly from Madrid to Delhi on February 24th for 464 Euros .
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
Find out what car rental companies are available at your destination , then call/email them to ask . Try to ensure whoever you ask checks policy rather than just answering what they think is right - because you may find whoever is at the desk on the day you collect has a different idea , and it could be important to show them the correct answer . I 'd also be keen to check if the law of the countries you intened to drive in are happy with this arrangement . In some European countries you can be compelled to hand over your license when stopped by law enforcement and there is of course the possibility you get into an incident of some form . It could be problematic if it turns out that you were breaking the law with a driving license not in your legal name .
It 's true that EU " laws " are not automatically valid , instead , specific countries need to implement them in their local laws . I will focus on the lateness part here ( not luggage and/or injuries ) . Some common rules not always listed include : a ) No refund if some other train with less delay ( than eg . 1h ) was available b ) No refund if you were informed about the delay before bying the ticket c ) Special rules ( or no refund at all ) for discounted tickets like week/month/year pass etc. d ) How/where to get the refund varies greatly e ) Sometimes , refunds are coupons with expiration date f ) For two-way-tickets , the price of one way is used for the calculations Some countries , in alphabetical order ( might add more later ) : Austria More than 1h late , not only regional trains : 25 % refund if these 25 % are at least 4 $ More than 2h late , not only regional trains : 50 % refund if these 50 % are at least 4 $ <URL> France Depending on the company eg . one of these : a ) 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % b ) 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % , 3h 75 % c ) 30min 20 % , 1h 50 % , 2h 100 % Not all trains are eligible , domestic trains can be queried online . <URL> Germany similar to Austria <URL> Italy For trains with mandatory seat reservation : 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % Cancelling the journey and getting a full refund ( for the part not used , if applicable ) is possible too . <URL> Netherlands Depending on the company and the delay reason eg . one of these : a ) 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % c ) 30min 20 % , 1h 50 % , 2h 100 % <URL> Norway 30min 50 % , with some exceptions <URL> Spain Varies depending on route , train and reason . Sweden 1h 50 % <URL> Switzerland 1h 25 % , 2h 50 % , only if the refund is at least 6CHF . <URL> UK 1h late 50 % refund , or 100 % if journey cancelled <URL> About hotel costs etc. if necessary , on many sites it is not mentioned at all , so I would not rely on that . I 've seen something for Austria and Switzerland , but somewhat limited .
As a national from an EU country you do not have are any obligations as regards residence permits . However , if you want , you can apply for one at the préfecture , the town hall of the place of residence or the police station . You are not subject to work permits . You have to fill in a tax return if you are over 18 and if you live in France permanently with your family ; that is where you have your main place of residence ; that is where you perform your main professional activity ; the core of your economic interests are in France For more information you can have a look at <URL>
I traveled most of the Panamerica by public bus in 2008-2010 . A normal car should be sufficient for the main road even though south of Mexico is is usually a 2-lane affair and can be pretty windy in the mountains and you ca n't go too fast . However you may want to leave the Panamerica for some side trips and the smaller roads are often not in the best condition . But normal cars are used by the locals everywhere .
The practice of accompanying an espresso with a glass of water is typical in southern Italy , and in particular in Naples in which coffee is something of a mystical ritual . Recently other establishments across Italy ( and worldwide ) have begun following this practice . High-end places might serve you a glass of water as an implicit statement saying that their coffee is so good that it requires you to clean your mouth to properly taste it . The purpose of the glass of water is twofold . It cleans the palate before drinking the coffee , allowing you to better enjoy its taste . It also helps compensate for the thirst that usually comes after drinking the coffee ( a preemptive measure , if you will ) . <URL> : Un ottimo servizio prevede che l’espresso venga accompagnato da un bicchiere con acqua ( poca , non occorre pieno ) . Se l’acqua dell ' acquedotto è buona , va benissimo . Perché l’acqua ? Perché il caffè fa venire sete e desiderio di bere . Quando berla ? Un vero intenditore la beve sempre prima di bere il caffè , affinché rimangano a lungo in bocca il gusto e gli aromi . There 's a chance that the bar you visited serves a glass of water with hot chocolate , for similar purposes as outlined above . Of course , nothing stops you from drinking the water after finishing your hot beverage . You might see a few frowned faces around you , but all in all should you really care ? I believe you 're free to consume your purchased drinks in whichever order you prefer , regardless of unwritten rules and traditions .
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
There are currenty ( February 2013 ) no ferries connecting Egypt with any country on the European mainland , but you may be able to get from Malta to Libya . If confirmed , this means you can travel Greece -- Italy -- Malta -- Libya , but the information on the Malta -- Libya link appears unclear . Edit : However , one can get to Tunisia or countries further west , see <URL> . This is likely because of the political situation . See , for example , <URL> : Then a new weekly ferry service started on 20 May 2010 linking Venice in Italy with Alexandria in Egypt , see www.visemarline.com . However , sorry as I am to be proved right , this service did n't last more than a year - it ran in a circle via Syria , and has fallen victim both to the problems in Egypt reducing tourist numbers and the current problems in Syria . The Visemar service was cancelled from May 2011 . So although the Mediterranean is full of useless cruise ships going round in circles , there are now sadly no proper scheduled shipping services at all linking anywhere in Europe with Egypt . This was a service linking Italy with Egypt . You 're asking Greece to Africa in general . From Greece , Egypt would make the most sense . Another possibility would be Libya : There appears to exist a cargo ferry connecting Malta and Libya that takes passengers : have a look at <URL> : The service operates from Valletta Cruise Port Terminal ( next to Valletta Waterfront ) to Misurata Port , Libya . I am not sure if this service actually exists , as the website states The service will be operating ... even if they should have started in 2011 . However , <URL> from June 2012 states that Passengers now have a choice of two companies to cross over to the mainland1 , and <URL> states that the ferry really exists . In any case , Malta has a <URL> , and there are ferries from Greece to Italy . 1From context , I think they mean two companies connection to mainland Europe , including one continuing to Africa Edit : of course , one can get to other African countries further west : see <URL>
There are plenty of buses to Eugene from other cities . From Eugene there is a bus to the McKenzie River Ranger Station a few times a day <URL> From there , its a 10 mile hike . Could make a nice little backpacking overnight trip .
<URL> . If the delay was not caused by " extraordinary circumstances " , you may be entitled to some monetary compensation .
<URL> . He 's found that the UNWTO , World Tourism Organization has a good overview of them . Essentially , in 2012 , at the tail end of the tourism list is : Tuvalu - 1200 tourists Somalia - 500 tourists Nauru - 200 tourists Oddly , I tried to go to Nauru in 2006 , but could n't find flights that worked , so went to Tonga instead : /
I believe , all jokes aside , you have four options : Try to ignore it . Obviously , you 're trying this already and it 's not working . But you could turn the tv on , listen to some music , or take a sleeping tablet if you have one . Passive aggressive behaviour . Turn the tv or music up really loudly . Bang on the wall . Hope they 'll take the hint . Cheer them on ! Decide to take delight in exacting your own form <URL> . Order them some food ! Indirect/Direct confrontation . You could yell at them to shut up , that people are trying to sleep , but I 've seen this be ignored even in dorms . You could go around to their room ( since you 've tried the phone ) and knock on the door , and explain the situation and that they 're being unreasonably loud - they may not even realise that the sound is carrying that well ! ( from <URL> ) Use the resources available to you in a nice hotel - call reception . Tell them that you called before and nothing happened , that it 's still going on and that they 're banging on the wall ( you do n't need to say what you think is happening , just that the effect is keeping you up ) , and will they please send someone to knock on the door and tell them there 's been a complaint . More than likely , 3 and 4 are your best bets for a quick response , and # 4 is the most likely to keep you calm - a bad confrontation while you 're overtired ( ala # 3 ) may not be the best thing for you .
The purpose of the Schengen Treaty is to let EU/EEA citizens pass internal EU borders without having to wait in line to have their papers checked . This greatly simplifies cross-border travel and commerce since there are no delays . Earlier treaties allowed EU citizens to pass those borders without visa or passports , just with their national ID cards . Those are still in force . Travelers still have to carry their ID cards under Schengen rules , and they must be prepared to show them during random spot checks by border authorities . The way Schengen is supposed to operate , such random spot checks are truly random and infrequent . To my knowledge , no country has suspended the Schengen common visa policy or passport-free travel for EU/EEA citizens . Due to the refugee situation , some nations make the checks less random and much more frequent . While this greatly disrupts travel , it does not change who can enter and with which papers .
If your phone is Android , you can download <URL> or <URL> for free which allows offline navigation based on the maps from the <URL> project . Be sure to download the maps ( also for free ) via Wlan before you need them .
According to Visa Waiver Program <URL> ( I assume you can join the Visa Waiver Program ) Passport validity The standard requirement for passport validity is 6 months beyond the expected date of departure from the United States . However , the US has signed agreements with a number of countries to waive this requirement . <URL>
I 'm not sure I qualify as a newcomer anymore , but I 'll make up for it with my enthusiasm for karma whoring :) As Gayot Fow has already stated , the answers to your questions are : No No Yes To explain why , it boils down to the fact that as far as the EU is concerned , the " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus " ( TRNC ) does not exist and the Republic of Cyprus ( ROC ) has authority over the whole island . <URL> , and because EU citizens are allowed to travel freely in the entire territory of the ROC , they 're also allowed to cross over to the TRNC the Turkish-occupied bits of the ROC freely . However , if you 're not a EU citizen , things are more complicated . First , the ROC gets upset if you attempt to enter from the North , because in the ROC 's view -- and this is where we enter the bizarro-world of geopolitics -- the border between the TRNC and the ROC is not really a border , and you 've been in the ROC ever since you touched down at Ercan airport . So if you knock on the gate of the " actual ROC " at Nicosia , and they realize you entered the " theoretical " ROC without going through ROC authorities , you 're now an illegal immigrant ! What about spending long periods of time in the TRNC without ever contacting the ROC then ? If you 're a European citizen , that 's fine ; but if you 're not , you 're an illegal immigrant as far as the ROC is concerned , at least in theory . Back in reality , though , they not only have no authority over you , but they do n't even know you 're there , and you 'll only run into potential trouble if you 're silly enough to enter ROC with TRNC stamps in your passport . Other states in the EU , though , will share the likely opinion of my fair reader at this point : " My head hurts , make it go away . " Which is why the Netherlands , or any EU country except maybe Greece , does not care about your TRNC stamps . The only potential issue will be applying for the visa , as EU embassies in the ROC will likely require proof of ROC residence and embassies in Turkey will require proof of Turkish residence , and you wo n't have either . Neither will they accept any proof of residence issued by the TRNC authorities , because in their opinion the TRNC does n't exist . So applying for the visa in your home country before you leave may be the easiest solution .
<URL> This is the underground car park at the Sagrada Familia market , which worked perfectly for me . Otherwise , if this is too expensive for you , <URL> . The 12 EUR option is <URL> : <URL> From there , you 'll be a short metro ride away from the city centre .
end question
start question
Are there any ferry tickets / passes in Japan that cover multiple ferries between multiple islands ?
As you can see on <URL> , Japanese ferries are operated by different companies ( every color is a different one ) . This is by the way similar to the Japanese railway and subway system . The difference from the Subway system however is that people rarely travel over several ferry routes . To make a cross-company ferry ticket is quite difficult , and due to the little usage , this was never done . So , in short , there is no such general pass for ferries .
Edit : on closer inspection ( thanks Krist van Besien for the seat61 link ) it seems that sadly , the only practical options really are coach with ID or Eurolines ( cheap , # 20 - # 50ish depending on advance booking , but 5hr + ) , or Eurostar . Train > Ferry > Train Many possible routes , here 's the fastest : High speed train from St Pancreas to Dover : <URL> , hourly ( plus other slower options ) P&amp;O Ferry foot passenger from Dover to Calais : <URL> , hourly ( other operators have 1:30 and 2hr ferries , not all allow foot passengers ) Train from Calais to Lille : <URL> , every half hour ( by road from <URL> ) So that 's 4 hours plus interchange time , costing around # 85 , Central London > Lille , prices seemingly not dependent on advance booking . Edit : The interchange times are horrible : the ferry operators have some savage policies that really slow this down . 45 minutes for foot passengers to check-in ( compared to just 30 minutes for vehicles ) , plus infrequent shuttle buses between ports and stations at both sides that do n't seem to match up with either the train or ferry timetables . <URL> at both Dover and Calais for UK to France train-ferry-train journeys , pushing the total to potentially 6 hours . Unless these policies change , sadly this option is more expensive , complicated and slow than a coach . There might be combined " train and ferry " deals out there that lower the overall price and help you find fast connections , but I could n't find any clear info . There are " rail and sail " tickets to Ireland and the Netherlands , but not to France . <URL> , but these seems to have been dropped - apparently for a while it was telephone-booking only , then even call centre staff stopped selling it . Train > Coach > Train Two fatal problems here : <URL> it does n't seem to be faster than ferry . They mostly take the coach by ferry anyway ( total 2 hours ish ) , and in the rare cases when they do n't ( which do n't stop anywhere in the UK except London except on the return journey ) , it takes about an hour and a half to get from Calais to Folkestone ( near Dover ) , so is barely faster . Despite driving through Dover and Folkestone/Canterbury , neither Eurolines nor ID 's online booking tools allow you to book from these towns . Seems they do n't stop there . They want you to get a coach from Dover to London , then another coach back to Dover on to Calais ...
I found <URL> was quite useful for finding different tours from non main stream companies as well as all the regulars . You can choose tours that go through a specific country or ones based in just the country you select . There are also plenty of options to weed out those that are n't suitable , such as age , duration , price , trip type , group size , dates and operators .
It is an IATA recommendation , and airlines tend to go with the minimum recommended in case the policy is in their favor , and opposite is true when the recommendation is against them : 3.2 PERIOD OF VALIDITY A ticket is valid for carriage for one year from the date of commencement of travel or if no portion of the ticket is used , from the date of issue thereof , except as otherwise provided in the ticket , these Conditions or Carrier 's Regulations . There are conditions in which the validity is extended . Basically when it is the airline 's mistake , such as cancelling a flight or so . Many airlines include this in their " General Conditions of Carriage &amp; Tariffs " , some types of tickets have less validity , usually the discounted tickets ( ~ 3 months ) . Source : <URL>
Ada Parry of Woodygupildiyerr , the Cultural Education Coordinator for NTGPE - had a cultural Aboriginal immersion course offered in July of this year . 7 people were invited to come and stay with his family in her cultural home for 5 days . I 'd suggest that would be a great place to start - if the program was successful , Ada may well be running more , and may even be aware of other similar projects happening within Australia . <URL> .
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
According to the <URL> , " the holders of Schengen visas with two or multiple entries , national visas or residence permits issued by Schengen Member States " can enter Romania without any additional visa . They do n't mention anything about there being any problem with you visiting Romania before any Schengen country on the visa . Since Romania is not a Schengen country , they let you in on the basis of the visa in the same way that they let in US citizens on the basis that they are US citizens , and thus do n't need a visa . The only limitation that they mention is that your stay is limited to the duration of your Schengen visa . I recommend that you <URL> or the Romanian embassy serving your home country to be sure about this . Please note that : For stays longer than 90 days visitors need to need to [ sic ] apply for a temporary residence permit ( either before arriving into Romania or at least 30 days before the 90-day " no visa " stay expires ) . ( <URL> )
According to the website <URL> there are no direct buses between Edinbugh Airport - Dundee and vice-versa . Example : 16/5/2013 Depart Edinburgh Airport approximately 9.00 am gives you three options . if you choose the 9.30 am this will be your route , arriving at Dundee Bus Station at 11.32 am If you then depart Dundee on 18/5/2013 at approximately 4.00 pm you are given the following options : If you use the 3.40 pm departure your route will be as following arriving at Edinburgh Aiport at around 5.24 pm Obviously this is an example , as I do n't have the specifics of your journey , but no there are no direct buses for your specified route .
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
In general , when using your card abroad you get charged ( some ) of the following fees Currency exchange fee A fee levied by your bank for using your card abroad A fee levied by the ATM operator In your case ( 1 ) will not apply because the currency is the same , but ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) might still apply . ( 2 ) you need to check with your bank , and you should be informed about ( 3 ) by the ATM . From personal experience , ( 3 ) is not very common in Europe .
Great question , I will try to give at least a partial answer . <URL> , CAT , is more prominent where there are high mountains . The mountains might direct air up , or suck it down etc. . Making the winds normally found at any given altitude mix in such a way that air pockets are born . One example are the <URL> . BOAC Flight 911 broke-up in flight in 1966 after experiencing severe lee wave turbulence just downwind of Mount Fuji , Japan . What might not be so easy to figure out are the <URL> . In the jet streams wind has a vastly different speed compared to winds of the surrounding air , transitioning such a barrier in a plane can cause a lot of turbulence . I do n't remember exactly how those jet streams work , but I believe there are some areas where they are more or less all the time , and some areas where they are not so frequent . They are formed in areas of high temperature differences . So I say yes , there are routes with more turbulence than others . However if there are any numbers on that I 'm not sure :( As far as I can tell you are simply more likely to encounter CAT in certain areas than others . The main commercial relevance of the jet streams is in air travel , as flight time can be dramatically affected by either flying with the flow or against the flow of a jet stream . Clear-air turbulence , a potential hazard to aircraft passenger safety , often is found in a jet stream 's vicinity . With this commercial relevance in mind I am not sure if the airlines try to avoid these potential problem areas or if the economic interests are too strong .
I 'm afraid I ca n't find any government numbers to back up my anecdotal evidence , but Shinjuku , Shibuya and Ikebukuro are all very safe - much safer than their equivalents in London , New York or any other ' world ' city . I 've spent many nights in each , in varying states of sobriety , and never had any problems at all . I 've lost my wallet a few times ( on trains , in bars and the like ) and never failed to retrieve it - either at the time from a fellow reveller , or at a police box ( koban ) later on . Kabuki-cho is the closest thing you 'll get to a ' red light ' district . Plenty of ' love hotels ' , hostess clubs , adult shops and yakuza ( Japanese mob ) to go around . Even so , much like Amsterdam 's equivalent , it 's as much an entertainment spot and centre of nightlife as it is a red light district . Whilst I would n't go swearing in Japanese at any of the well-heeled , little-finger-deprived yakuza that hang out there , they will seldom even look at a foreigner , never mind cause them any trouble . Too much hassle . Roppongi is slightly different in that it 's really a foreigner hotspot - plenty of dodgy bars and clubs , particularly of the ' hostess ' variety , which will invite you in and charge you hundreds of dollars for a drink and some chat time with a Japanese hostess . Technically you 're paying for the drink , but argue at the price and expect a rude exit from the establishment . If there were anywhere in Tokyo you should n't go , it 'd be here at night - but only because it 's not very nice , as opposed to dangerous . During the day Roppongi has some rather spectacular architecture , and is home to a bunch of Western and Japanese companies , as well as a ton of embassies . Not really a hellhole by any standards . As with any country , common sense rules . Make sure to keep your valuables in a safe place or tucked away on your person . If you 're dangling a wallet full of holiday fun time yen as you saunter through a train station it 's more likely someone will try to help you and point it out , but still , it 's better not to in the first place . Do n't leave luggage lying about either - it wo n't get stolen , but the police do n't like that sort of thing in case it 's something more sinister . Long story short - at no point in Tokyo will you ever cross some boundary from ' nice part crime-wise ' to ' holy christ it 's the Baltimore projects ' . Those boundaries do n't really exist .
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
According to the InterWebs there are only two Korean restaurants in Romania , both in Bucharest ( <URL> and <URL> ) , however where-ever there is a good number of Korean tourists or workers , there is usually also a Korean restaurant . Looking at the <URL> of Daewoo Mangalia Heavy Industries . all the managers listed there have Romanian names , the president and CEO is Korean , but it seems he is based in Korea . So we can assume there are not many Koreans working at the site , and therefore there is no place to get Korean food . There are a few Chinese places up the coast in Constanta .
If you travel Portugal - Germany - Egypt , you will stay in the Schengen area till you leave Germany , you will have an internal Schengen area flight and get out of the Schengen area when you leave Germany . If your layover is long enough you can leave the airport . For most European airports they advise not to leave the airport if your stop is less than 5 hours , but it does differ between the different airports . On the other hand , if you fly from Portugal to Egypt and then to Germany , you would have left the Schengen area when leaving Portugal and would not be allowed into Germany , as your visit would be a second entry into the Schengen area .
There is at least one - the <URL> is located in the West stand of the 32,000-seat Stadium MK ! ( Home to the MKDONS ) Several of the room types feature views out over the pitch ( you 'd want the ones saying " With View " in the booking list ) , and the restaurant/bar has views out of the pitch . The only downside is that the executive rooms are generally unavailable on match days , as they 're used for hospitality , and someone on FT mentioned that not all of the fitness facilities are available on match days as apparently they get used by the teams ! The hotel is also only a short distance from <URL> , which is a must-visit for any crypto/spy/code-breaking / computer/history geek , and you can often get some stunningly good advanced-purchase deals at the hotel for weekend stays :)
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
My wife is physician and she says : You should n't change your physician prescription times unless : you do it one or two hours per day ( i.e. you take 3 pills each 8 hours , so you can advance one hour the first pill , then take the second 8 or 9 hours later and the last one 8 hours later . . maximum 2 hours ) . you ask your physician and he approves the change . Of course , you can start adapting your schedule before starting your vacations .
end question
start question
Is it currently possible to travel directly between the different parts of " Kurdistan " which lie within different countries ?
It 's possible , although I would not necessary recommend it in the current climate . First , a map courtesy of the CIA : Start from <URL> , in the Turkish area of Kurdistan . Cross into Iraqi Kurdistan via the <URL> checkpoint , firmly in Kurdish hands , and the town of Zakho . Detour to <URL> at Syria 's northeastern tippy-top if you absolutely must plant your flag in Syrian Kurdistan , then continue to Iran via Erbil ( Irbil ) , which has direct buses to Urmia ( " Orumiyeh " on the CIA map ) via the <URL> checkpoint . Ta-dah , you 've now covered all three ( or four ) countries .
No . <URL> with an overview of the situation in each country . <URL> ( though it does look somewhat incomplete , at least for South America ) . Overall , each country has , or does n't have , its own network . There is currently no railway crossing any border anywhere between Mexico and Columbia , at least . According to <URL> , in South America , the only international connections are between Bolivia , Argentina and Brazil ( neither of the two links between Bolivia and the Chilean coast , to <URL> or <URL> , carry passengers , and the Arica line is currently closed ) . If you want to go from Mexico to Panama , railways wo n't help you much . Guatemala has none . <URL> has only a few commuter trains that would save you at most a few miles . <URL> has a few goods trains and commuter trains but there too I do n't think any are helpful to cross the country . Nicaragua is another trainless gap . <URL> currently only has a commuter line around San José . In <URL> the only railway is the one that runs parallel to the Canal . From Colombia to the South , you 'll need to go via Peru or Venezuela . In <URL> , the existing tracks would n't help you much , and anyway the only passenger train is in the Bogotá region . <URL> has a few trains but there are still large gaps if you want to reach Brazil , and then the only trains in the north of Brazil are on the coast . In <URL> , finally , there are trains that will take you part of the way between Ecuador and Bolivia , but with several large gaps . You can go from [ Cusco to Puno ] ( <URL> to Puno ) on the shore of Lake Titicaca , then a ferry to Guaqui in Bolivia ( if it 's currently running -- I ca n't find reliable information ) and there a train to La Paz . <URL> has several passenger networks , but here too there are gaps between these networks , and there are no tracks connecting the eastern and western network . The western network runs to <URL> on the Argentinean border . The <URL> no longer runs to La Quiaca , so you 'll need a combination of buses and optionally a tourist line , the <URL> , in Salta , to reach the main network at Tucuman .
This depends on two factors : The ticket type . The website where you made the booking . Regarding ticket type , is it a flexible ticket type ? Is it refundable ? Most likely this will be shown in the ticket details . If it is flexible then you need to make sure that the website were you made the reservation has the ability to change the reservation . Most airlines ' websites have this ability . You can simply login and open your booking and change it . Things are not that easy with other online travel agencies and this varies from one website to another and some require you to call a number to do that .
Generally speaking , no , that 's not allowed . The relevant Schengen regulation does leave the door open in special circumstances , but that 's not how French consulates traditionally work . You have to apply to the consulate serving your place of residence and can not simply choose one that 's convenient for you , even in the same country . However , it does not hurt to ask , either by trying to contact the NYC consulate directly or by lodging an application at another consulate , explaining why you do that ( you can write a short letter to join to your application ) . Since it 's a reasonable reason and it 's out of your control , they might agree to see it as a valid justification to apply article 6 ( 2 ) of the Schengen visa code but it 's really up to them ( see also <URL> and <URL> ) . Some practical tips : Always be congenial and to-the-point in your communication , do not suggest you feel entitled to something or get angry -- even if you have good reasons to ! -- but stand your ground and do n't be obsequious either and you might get lucky . But it 's a long shot .
It is currently impossible to cross the border at all . Recent info from <URL> ( which I have praised in <URL> ) as <URL> Since the April 2015 Nepal Earthquake , the Tibet Nepal border has been closed to foreign travelers . [ ... ] At this time , it is impossible to say when this border will reopen . [ ... ] For now , it remains impossible to say when exactly the border will reopen . And this is still all that can be said . You may have gotten hopeful by <URL> linked in <URL> above - however that precedes a massive rockslide just past the Chinese border buildings following heavy rains in July 2016 at Kyirong . You should give a good look to <URL> and especially the sections " When will the Tibet-Nepal Border Reopen ? " and " What Areas Are Closed ? " The author of the website/blog promises to update that article once there are changes and post <URL> as well . The old border in Zhangmu seems to be a ghost town by now and apparently there are no plans to re-open the border . While residents claim the street condition on the Nepal side is as before the earthquake , there is still the occasional ( fatal ) boulder that comes down , as reported in <URL> .
There are special rules for it , the <URL> has a <URL> for this . Basically as long as you have an invitation or ticket for the event , you get a visa on arrival .
Embassies and consulates will only assist their own citizens . For example , the section of the US embassy that performs this function is called " American Citizen Services " . You and your spouse would have to contact your respective countries ' embassies . As your children are dual citizens they could get assistance from either embassy . Only in exceedingly rare emergency situations such as evacuations during times of war you might get assistance for your entire family despite that fact that some members are non-citizens . For anything else routine you would have to visit your home country 's embassy . Many people are under the impression ( usually from watching too many movies ) that an embassy will going to extraordinary lengths to protect their citizens . In reality , it is usually the opposite and the embassy will rarely intervene in emergencies . For example , if you are arrested in a foreign country , you should only expect a consular visit and the telephone number of a local lawyer . If you run out of money , they are not going to loan you money to fly home etc. . Finally , in theory , EU citizens can visit the embassy of any other EU country if their home country does not have local representation . For example , Portugal does not have an embassy in Cambodia , but in theory a Portuguese citizen living there could receive assistance at the French Embassy there . I 've heard that in practice that this does n't work as well as it should .
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
In my experience as a holder of multiple passports , airlines do n't care what passport details you enter when you book . ( The primary exception being the US , which is picky and wants to know everything in advance . ) As long as your name does n't change , and they can verify on check-in that you have a visa or do n't need one , they 're fine . Out of interest , where did you get " changing the passport information on non-refundable tickets is generally a very costly operation " from ? Changing the name on the ticket is indeed costly , but I 've never heard of an airline charging for changes to passport details .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
Nowhere . Even entering Ireland would require an ID with a photo on it ( and airlines flying there typically insist on passports ) . Edit : the comment is right , I was thinking of the ferries which do require some photo ID ( anecdotal evidence suggests , however , even a library card is enough ) . So yes , you can get to Ireland by driving in from Northern Ireland .
Any question about staying overnight at an airport can usually be answered by consulting the comprehensive <URL> website . It 's probably best to read the reviews on that site to see the experiences of previous passengers there . Since you 're arriving from an international flight , you will have to clear security , re-check your luggage if you have any , and you may or may not be allowed through security for your flight the next day . I suspect you wo n't be allowed through but ca n't confirm that . If there has been disruption , apparently the airport sets up cots for passengers . If not , you will have to find a bench or quiet corner to sleep . If you can afford it , you 'll obviously be a lot more comfortable in a hotel . Looking on google maps for hotels near the airport , there seem to be reasonably inexpensive hotels nearby in the order of $ 80 - $ 100 .
Refusing to eat totally is indeed very rude . In fact , it might be taken as an insult if you were the main guest . However , you can always ask for a plate and a spoon , fill the plate and eat the way you are used to . This will totally save the situation and will be understood positively since people know how foreigners eat , but not eating at all is something you should avoid . By the way , asking for a spoon or fork is totally normal even if you were n't a foreigner .
I suspect this is a result of Jet streams . This is most commonly observed by different flight times between the same cities . It generally takes longer ( 25 % or so ) to fly from Europe to the U.S. than from the U.S. to Europe . This is because the high-altitude jet streams across the Atlantic blow from west to east , providing a boost in one direction , and a penalty in the other . You can read a bit more about it <URL> , as well as many other places on google . The jet stream will either improve fuel efficiency and flight time , or hurt it , depending on whether the aircraft is flying with or against the wind . To help compensate for jet streams , routes are often altered one way or the other , to provide for the most efficient travel . This can lead to drastically different miles flown , as well . On aircraft equipped with flight status monitors , you may notice the discrepancy between two flights . Unfortunately , I doubt this will ever affect your frequent flier miles :) This would easily explain a difference in carbon emissions .
I can make no subjective comment as could one who lives in the region . If you are a US Citizen , the <URL> ( what a mouthful ) published , in April of 2015 , the <URL> which covers everything from what it calls terrorism to petty crime . This report is , of course , aimed for the US Citizen traveling to Israel , Jerusalem and the Gaza strip . A non-government page to visit for example , might be <URL> . Even though it is created and run by a single individual , the guidance is helpful , appears to be from someone who actually lives in Jerusalem , and is not all positive ( or negative ) . Carefully reading through both sites , IMO , you 're as safe ( or not ) in Jerusalem as anywhere else in the world , barring of course , actual war zones .
From <URL> it would seem to be NO , but it does indicate you could travel to Bulgaria . Aussies do n't need a visa for Bulgaria , so you could then take a train up to Bucharest from within Bulgaria . Bucharest to Istanbul is 16 hours , so from Bulgaria would n't be a long trip .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
Yes you can . Canada has no exit checks . Britain has recently instituted them , but I see no sign that they will require you to exit on a British passport ( they do n't require you to enter on a British passport ) . Neither have a problem with you being a dual citizen . And either passport will get you visa-free access to the other country . <URL> , but in this case it 's not a big deal . Show either one whenever . The only place where it makes a difference is coming to Britain , where showing your British passport gets you in the fast immigration line . ( Strangely there is no equivalent benefit in Canada ) .
No , no way to walk from Kowloon to Hong Kong island , there are several ferries to cross the harbour , but none of them is free . There is no tunnel you can walk through either , just motor traffic .
end question
start question
When is the last / overnight bus from Ankara to Goreme ( Cappadocia ) ?
Overnight buses in Turkey run when the distance between the origin and destination is enough to allow a departure before midnight and an arrival after six in the morning . However , you do n't get many six-hour routes that operate overnight . When a city is not the origin or destination , it is possible to find buses that pass through so that you get an overnight trip . Göreme is too close to Ankara for overnight service , and since Ankara and Göreme ( actually Nevşehir ) are major destinations , they are most often terminus cities and do n't get as much through traffic . You 'll probably have to take a day bus .
Any question about staying overnight at an airport can usually be answered by consulting the comprehensive <URL> website . It 's probably best to read the reviews on that site to see the experiences of previous passengers there . Since you 're arriving from an international flight , you will have to clear security , re-check your luggage if you have any , and you may or may not be allowed through security for your flight the next day . I suspect you wo n't be allowed through but ca n't confirm that . If there has been disruption , apparently the airport sets up cots for passengers . If not , you will have to find a bench or quiet corner to sleep . If you can afford it , you 'll obviously be a lot more comfortable in a hotel . Looking on google maps for hotels near the airport , there seem to be reasonably inexpensive hotels nearby in the order of $ 80 - $ 100 .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
Obviously it 'll depend on the time of year , but my feeling in Marrakech was that something would ' appear ' if you needed it , they were always keen to make some cash . We did n't have time for the desert tours , but hoped to do a day tour to a nearby river valley . Lo and behold our Riad owner suddenly had a friend running a tour , and indeed came along himself . This was in November , however , and seasonal variations will occur in demand . We ca n't possibly be certain , but you could consider hopping on forums like the Lonely Planet and seeing if anyone else is looking for a tour too . Or ask your Riad to ask other guests in advance . Otherwise , there 's still PLENTY to do in and around Marrakech .
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
There are no night buses that I am aware of . Green Bus has Chiang Mai to Chiang Khong routes ( stops in Chiang Rai on the way ) , but they are daytime schedules . Most bus companies try to avoid driving the road between Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai at night , as it is a winding mountain route with less than perfect drivers ( ie post drinking drivers ) .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
Unfortunately there is no pass at the moment . RoutPass disappeared after 2012 . Since it was offered several bus companies in the network were taken over by multi-national transportation companies , services have since been , and continue to be , restructured and moved between operators especially in Quebec and the Maratimes . At <URL> we 're building a search engine covering several companies in the region , it might help you find who 's currently operating and find the travel days with the lowest price .
When the tour guide / tour operator quotes you a price for a private package , it is more often than not a set offer . You can always ask if they can discount the price a bit , but most likely they would respond by simply changing up the package to use other components , lower grade hotel room , less game drive time , etc. . A reputable tour company has already established the value of its programs and is not really inclined to start discounting for the sake of getting just one more booking . A small , lesser known company would be more amenable to discounting to build up their customer base and word of mouth . This is part of the reason why you rarely see the big name tours offering trips on discount offer websites like ZOZI , LivingSocial , etc. . You can always ask , but do n't count anything huge ( a couple of percent off ) .
There is at least one - the <URL> is located in the West stand of the 32,000-seat Stadium MK ! ( Home to the MKDONS ) Several of the room types feature views out over the pitch ( you 'd want the ones saying " With View " in the booking list ) , and the restaurant/bar has views out of the pitch . The only downside is that the executive rooms are generally unavailable on match days , as they 're used for hospitality , and someone on FT mentioned that not all of the fitness facilities are available on match days as apparently they get used by the teams ! The hotel is also only a short distance from <URL> , which is a must-visit for any crypto/spy/code-breaking / computer/history geek , and you can often get some stunningly good advanced-purchase deals at the hotel for weekend stays :)
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
It turns out one can view their bus ticket on <URL> : Enter the flight confirmation number along with the email used on Wizzair.com to reveal the E-ticket : I think they 're supposed to send out a notification 3 days before the flight takes place , but there 's no need to wait for it . If the ticket does n't show up on P-Airbus . com , it 's possible to receive it by contacting the transfer service support at wizzair@wizztransfer.com .
OK after even more research and legwork I have reached some generalizations ( any of which may be wrong so please correct me ) : There are not actually bus companies operating buses between Greece and Georgia , but travel agencies chartering buses . A bus departs Greece headed for Georgia each day of the week , with one particular travel agency dealing with each particular day of the week . This suggests there may be seven agencies assuming there is a bus on all 7 days of the week . All or most of the agencies have offices in the same area of Thessaloniki , at the part of Filippou Street near Agn . Stratiotou and Mitseon Streets , which is near the ruins of the Roman Forum of Thessaloniki . Not all of the agencies have any English-speaking staff , but Nougzari Tours does . Other agencies in the area will happily send you there if you ca n't manage in Greek , Georgian , or Russian . Departure times may vary , you are advised to check when booking . This is probably a subsequence of the buses being charters . The ruins of the Roman Forum of Thessaloniki near several of the Georgian travel agencies which run buses to Tbilisi : Known agencies running buses on particular days of the week Sunday : <URL> Monday : <URL> Tuesday : Wednesday : Thursday : <URL> Friday : Saturday : Shopfronts of a couple of the Georgian travel agencies in Thessaloniki in the area described above : ( This answer is a Community Wiki so please correct any mistakes or add any missing or new information . )
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
<URL> offers " Sparpreis " saver fares up to a few minutes before departure . However , these are the regular saver fares that only rise and almost never fall in price if you are getting nearer to departure , Up until last December <URL> offered such tickets however that promotors on has stopped . A month ago they once again had a few without long notice so it pays to check from time to time . Note that they currently sell the same tickets as Deutsche Bahn directly but with a surcharge . You might be able to find someone selling their non-online saver fare on websites such as EBay Kleinanzeigen or local Facebook groups . However , never fall for offers to book a connection you provide them for a low price on those sites as an online-ticket . These are too good to be true . Other than that there are no last minute deals for Deustche Bahn trains in Germany .
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
I looked through our database at <URL> where we 're working to aggregate all the world 's bus providers and routes . We 're sure we do n't know about everything yet , but we 've found a lot of routes . There are several long routes in South and North America based on driving distance measured on google maps . Here are the top contenders for long same-bus trips with no transfers . South America : There are a few documentaries and tv reports about the long direct routes on <URL> where you can see the same coach goes all the way through . 5582 km : Lima , Peru to Buenos Aires , Argentina ( Ormeño ) - Via Santiago , Chile . 5573 km : Lima , Peru to Sao Paulo , Brazil ( Ormeño ) - Via Rio Branco , Acre , Brazil . North America : 4644 km / 85 hours : Los Angles , California , USA to San Salvador , El Salvador ( Usa Tours ) - Once a week via Tijuana , Guadalajara , and Guatemala City . 4607 km / 65 hours : <URL> - via Kansas , Pittsburg and Philadelphia . Impressively , Greyhound runs two of these a day . 3538 km : Saint Paul , Minnesota , USA to Morelia , Michoacán , Mexico ( Transportes Chayo ) . 3435 km / 52 hours : <URL> - All passengers are required to get off the bus for cleaning in Sudbury and Winnipeg amongst other places . 3254 km / 44 hours : <URL> - There are several other buses from Chicago to Mexico but this is the most frequent , at least daily , and the longest we 're sure is a direct bus . Europe : 3631 km : Braunschweig , Germany to Grozny , Chechnya , Russia ( KVN ) - The route is currently a bit longer than normal since it 's detouring around the entire eastern Ukraine through Belarus . 3558 km : Burgas , Bulgaria to Liverpool , England , United Kingdom ( Sofia Bus ) - Via Maribor , Stuttgart , Mannheim , Paris , London , Manchester . Africa 1868 km : Johannesburg , South Africa to Lilongwe , Malawi ( Intercape )
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
There 's no definitive answer to this and it will vary by country and airline . This is what the UK Civil Aviation Authority says : <URL> From a safety point of view children ( it does n't specify an age ) SHOULD be seated CLOSE to their parent/guardian . The reasons are many but if you imagine a decompression for example , where the oxygen masks deploy , you want someone to be able to fit the mask to the child . Parents may not trust a random stranger to do this for their offspring . If there was an emergency evacuation , you do n't want parents having to move around the aircraft trying to get to their children to ensure they are evacuated etc. . Once the child gets to an age where they are responsible enough to look after themselves in the event of an emergency , then you can consider this to be reasonable . This will vary depending on the child to some extent but perhaps age 12 would be reasonable . Of course if you have 6 children as we do , you will invariably be separated by at least a row or an aisle , we always try to seat the youngest ones closest . In the past airlines ( at least the ones I 've flown with ) would always try to seat families together but now that a lot of them charge for reserved seats they are less helpful in this regard .
end question
start question
How do you book an Emitrates Dubai stopover package ( from US/Canada ) ?
First , what you do n't do is call the Emirates reservations number . They , in my experience , will send you on a wild goose chase where you make multiple international phone calls during Middle Eastern business hours into the phone system of Arabian Adventures , the Emirates-owned tour operator . Each agent that you 're told to speak to will seem completely baffled by your request and unsure why you are asking them . Instead , you go to <URL> belonging to Kompas Express , the company Emirates has contracted to organize such packages for travelers in the US and Canada . I am aware that that URL looks like a scam , but it is linked to by <URL> on the official Emirates website intended for travel agents . Go to the Kompas Express page and fill out the form to supply your booking details . An agent will then email you with some preliminary price quotes based on the options you selected . You can then write back and ask for prices for other hotels besides the ones they give you or to request other services . They 'll put it all together in a quote and allow you to pay through a secure site . It is not possible to communicate with them in any way besides email . You can , of course , book your own hotels separately , but then you wo n't get the transportation , 24-hour check-in/check-out , breakfast , or other parts of the package , so it 's worth shopping around . Also note that some itineraries qualify for Emirates <URL> , where they will provide free accommodation and meals to passengers on qualifying fares and itineraries with long connections . This question is referring to voluntary long layovers for the purpose of seeing Dubai , not involuntary ones due to flight schedules .
First question : how much credit ? In the upper part of the page it says it 's ¥ 1500 , but the " See how much you save ! " figure says " Includes a ¥ 500 deposit " . The deposit is the amount that is not credit - " deposit " means that you pay it and get it back when you return the card . So there 's ¥ 1500 of credit . I think it 's not worthy for me , am I right ? I 'd say that a 110 yen fare difference should not be the reason to decide one way or another ; at least for the first trip inside Japan and when carrying luggage , I 'd choose the one that has the easiest connection . Using Hyperdia I found out that to go to my hotel in Chuo-Ku ( Kodemmacho station ) would cost only ¥ 1390 . Am I doing something wrong ? No , it loooks right , and <URL> agrees . It has even cheaper connections , but those take longer and/or include walking .
It 's worth nothing that return flights are always from A-B-A . You 're asking for an open-jawed ( sort-of ) flight - and that 's almost always two one-way tickets . Sometimes on kayak.com they have variants that 'll show up if you select multiple airports in your " return flight " - you could try that ( in the " from " box , you can put MAD , and in the " to " box , put " DEL , BOM . However it may just find the cheapest return flight to DEL then . But it could be worth a try . I 'd suggest <URL> as another possible option . It 's like an online travel agent - you pay a small fee , and their experts find the cheapest flight they can for you . What you could do is create a contest on there , and indicate what you 've found , but that you 'd like a way to book it for the price you 've found , or for less if they can ;) ( disclaimer , I occasionally compete on there as an expert - there 's a discount link in my profile )
Found <URL> about courier flights . It says that this option is less popular and hard to find than 10 years ago because of air-deliver industry grows from that time . Unlike the late 1990s and early 2000s , when these flights became popular , air cargo companies now have much larger fleets and more sophisticated handling services that work with customs agencies to speed deliveries . Also there is many security restrictions after 9/11 event , so you can be in trouble because you do n't know what exactly you have in your bag .
The very next day , if you can convince the border agent that you 're using your visa for the appropriate means , and are n't trying to ' live ' there instead . They 're going to wonder what took 141 days and now needs more . If you 're backpacking across the country , say , they can see evidence of your travels and you can show that say , you were now heading up to Churchill to see the polar bears and therefore need another few weeks . They 're going to want to know how long you 're going for this time , and what you 're planning on doing . It gets a bit more unclear if you 're a digital nomad like yourself . Technically you 're working for a US company from Canada . Some countries and guards can be very iffy on that . Essentially , they may see it as you living and earning money there , benefiting from their roads and so on , without paying and Canadian taxes . And that 's not approved . However , if you provide them with your business address and show that you 're travelling as a tourist as well , it might be deemed more acceptable . Short version : You 're going to have to convince the border agent that you 're not living there tax-free , but are a bona-fide visitor , there for normal visitor reasons , who plans on returning to the US where you live . EDIT : Indeed , from the <URL> : To visit Canada , you must : have a valid travel document , such as a passport , be in good health , convince an immigration officer that you have ties -- such as a job , home , financial assets or family -- that will take you back to your home country , convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit , and have enough money for your stay . ( The amount of money you will need can vary . it depends on things like how long you will stay , and whether you will stay in a hotel or with friends or relatives . ) I 've highlighted the key bit . If it 's apparent or seems that your plan is just to keep re-entering Canada , they may well disqualify you . Indeed , when I lived in Vancouver I had a friend from Utah who went to renew her visa , and was seen to be ' living ' there ( She was actually trying to move to Vancouver long term , just did things in the wrong order ) and was given 2 days to pack up and leave . So basically , that 's what your entry request will be tested against .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
There do n't appear to be any ski hills in Georgia , however , <URL> . I 've never been to any of them , though .
The Pacific route is a beautiful route ! Expensive , but beautiful none the less . From the West Coast of the U.S. , you can take Amtrak 's Cascades train ( tel. 800/USA RAIL ; www.amtrak.com ) to Bellingham , Washington ; the dock for the Alaska ferry is quite close to the railroad station . From the east , it makes more sense to use Canada 's Via Rail ( tel. 888/VIA-RAIL ; www.viarail.ca ) . The transcontinental route starts all the way back in Toronto ; you change in Jasper to end up in Prince Rupert , B.C. , where you can catch the Alaska ferry north . <URL> Regardless , your <URL> ; you 'll have to double back East to head North , and you 'll only go as far as Prince Rupert . ( Screenshot from www.viarail.ca ) I would go with if I did n't have a job !
It varies for different airlines , so it 's best to telephone your individual airline or check their website . It seems to be standard for international flights but not so for domestic flights . These depend on the model of plane and some airlines also have a weight limit for allowing a child to use the bassinets . Check with your airline to determine if your child is below the weight limit specified for use of your airline 's bassinets . On long haul flights most airlines will provide Bassinets providing for by infants under the age of 2 years with the condition that the infant does not way more than 10kg and under 6 months of age Article Source : <URL> These are fitted in front of the parents seat , so it 's best you get the first row of seats in each block of the airline as these have more legroom . How do you book it ? Once you 've checked the website , call them to request for one . Ideally ee-confirm 48 hours before your flight that your bassinet is available . Sometimes you might have to wait till check-in to get it confirmed on certain airlines . Is it tied to your seat assignment ? Yes - I assume you will get a seat with enough legroom to install the bassinet . And if the seat with the bassinet is taken by someone without an infant , will they change your seat assignment ? They should do so - provided you inform them in advance Additional Info From a few websites , you can see the policy for some airlines . <URL> offers bassinets for ticketed infants weighing 22 lbs ( 10 kg ) or less on international flights operated with 777 , 767 and 757-200 aircraft . Bassinets attach to the wall in front of the specific seats . Qantas - If you require a bassinet onboard , you must notify Qantas at the time of reservation . Bassinets may be requested for infants up to 18 months of age , but the recommended age limit for bassinet use on international flights is eight months United - A limited number of bassinets can be reserved for use , free of charge , on international aircraft ( Boeing 747 , 767 and 777 ) . These bassinets are large enough to hold a child up to approximately six months old . Air NZ only allows pre-booking for infants of 8 months and less , otherwise you must wait until check-in to see if a bassinet is available
If you use the <URL> , then for journeys involving King George Square station the planner will tell you which part of the platform to use , eg 7.10 pm Depart King George Square station , platform 2D That involves having internet access to look up your journey details , which may not be available . If you arrive at the station without having the chance to check online , then there is a big bank of screens above the escalators to each platform . These show the next 5 buses to call at each stop along the platform . Depending on the stop and the time of day , this could be anything between 5 minutes into the future and over an hour , so you may see what you need up there , or you may not . All depends on how soon until your bus . The displays look something like this : Alternately , there is a map of which routes use which stop . Annoyingly , it does n't seem to be available anywhere around the station entrance , nor just after arriving on the platform . I only found it almost at the far end of the platform , where it 's much less use as you 've already walked past most of the stop information boards ! The photo below is a bit blury , but should at least give you an idea of the information poster to look for if you need it . So , short answer - if you have internet and/or your bus leaves in a few minutes , you 're fine . Otherwise , you 'll probably have to walk along the platform checking each stop , unless Translink decide to be helpful and put up some more of the " which stop " posters in useful places ...
With the help of the very handy <URL> , it turns out it can be done just fine ! Currently , there are no trains serving the Sunshine Coast ( though a <URL> ) . Instead , you need to take a <URL> from Roma Street Station or Central Station , and then change at somewhere like Woombye for the bus to the coast . The train takes about 2 hours from Brisbane , then it 's about another 45 minutes on the bus to Mooloolaba . There 's roughly one train an hour , and the last southbound train leaves Nambour just after 8pm on a weekday . So , it is possible to leave Brisbane in the morning , spend the afternoon on the Sunshine Coast , then head back in the evening , all by public transport . Oh , and just to note , sometimes off-peak the " train " between Nambour and Caboolture is actually a <URL> due to a lack of track capacity , which is a little bit slower .
The Antarctic Peninsula is a part of the sector of Antarctica claimed by Argentina . If you are taking a ship that goes only there ( and not to the Falkland Islands , for example ) , you are technically not leaving Argentina at all . I went to the Antarctic Peninsula from Ushuaia last November . The crew took my passport before I boarded the ship , and returned it just before we came back to Ushuaia . I do n't know what kind of formalities there were before the departure , but at least I did n't get an exit stamp to the passport . When the ship returned to Ushuaia , they just transfered us to our hotels without any formalities .
When I traveled to Greece 2 years ago I traveled between Athens/Santorini/Mykonos / Ikaria . We bought our tickets when we arrived in Greece . I had the same problem as you , where there was n't a really good website to purchase tickets from in the US , but things may have changed since back then . I did end up use this website <URL> to find out ferry schedules . I just found the sites of two ferries we used a couple times when we were over there . Seems like their websites have improved drastically . <URL> <URL> Take note that some routes are a lot faster than others . This is usually because the boats make more frequent stops or are just faster boats in general . If you do n't book online , there are many travel agencies in Athens and Piraeus that will book tickets for you , you can typically just ask a local where you can buy a ferry ticket . We never ran into a ferry selling out , but of course you may experience something different . With regards to booking deck tickets , it can be cool the first couple of minutes , but can get old very quickly when the water starts splashing around if the water is particularly choppy that day . Also , some ferry decks do not have seating so you have to make yourself comfortable on the deck itself . Also if the sun is out and beating down on you , it can make for a tough trip .
The aircraft you are flying on use containers for baggage , so even if they were off loaded at the stopover , chances are your bags would remain in the original container they were loaded in . Bags are loaded into containers based on destination to expedite loading and handling . Whether bags are off loaded or not depends on multiple factors from both the airline and airport . As bags are the last thing loaded , so they can be first off upon landing , containers holding through bags may have to also be offloaded to allow cargo to be unloaded .
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
Your passport qualifies to <URL> if you prefer . It costs a little less in the short run , but you will have to mail your passport with the application form . Although I was not able to find any info specifically on <URL> about this topic , any restrictions on how early you can renew are conspicuously absent . Information on various US embassy pages from other countries also suggests that you can renew at any time : From <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may apply to renew your U.S. passport at any time . From : <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may <URL> at any time before or after it expires .
There are some great opportunities along you 're route . First of all I would go back to Girona or even Barcelona . Both are very interesting cities . From there you can go on to Andorra . In Andorra you ca n't do a lot of things , but hey your country-counter will increment by 1 . If you 're into mountains/hiking you can spend some time there . From Andorra I would go to Carcasonne . In Carcasonne you can visit the beautiful castle , the Canal du Midi or a old cathedral . The next stop I would make in Beziers which is also a beautiful city with an old cathedral . From there I would follow the cost line and stop in places like <URL> , Nimes , Montpellier or Marseille . Now it depends a little bit if you want to start in the south or east of Switzerland or in the west or Northern part . If you 're going the southern or eastern part I would follow the cost line a little bit more and visit Nice and Monaco.Then I would visit Turino or Milan and finally entering the beautiful southern part of Switzerland , <URL> . There are a lot of nice cities , like Lugano , Locarno or Bellinzona : But you will also find some interesting small villages in the mountains like for example <URL> . From Ticino you can cross the main part of the alps via the <URL> and then arrive in central Switzerland , for example Lucerne : If you want to start in the northern/western part of Switzerland i Would go from Marseille to <URL> and then from there to <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> to <URL> . I visited all the cities a mentioned here and I can really recommend it .
There 's a lot of handy info on the <URL> about this . Interestingly , much of it is n't positive about the InterRail discounted tickets ... A couple of key bits to pull out ( but you 'll really want to go and read the whole thing ! ) Eurostar is n't covered ... The best and cheapest option is usually to forget your pass and buy a regular cheap Eurostar ticket well in advance at www.eurostar.com . These start from just # 39 one way or # 69 return ... In theory , Eurostar offers a ' special ' fare for InterRail passholders , # 57 one way , # 100 return , with changes to travel plans allowed , but as you can see , this is actually more expensive than the cheapest regular fare if you book a month or two in advance and commit to a specific date and train ... . but be warned , the number of passholder tickets is controlled by a quota and people have turned up at the station on a Sunday to be told there are no passholder places available on any Eurostar departure until Wednesday , and if they wanted to travel immediately they 'd have to pay the full-price regular fare , a whopping # 170 for immediate departure ... . Alternatively , take a ferry to mainland Europe : If you prefer to travel by ferry rather than Eurostar , or if you find all the cheap Eurostar fares sold out , there are several cheap ferry options . Top tip : South Eastern Trains offer a # 33.90 day trip ticket from London to Calais covering both train and ferry , which is cheaper even for a one-way trip than a # 34 train ticket to Dover and a # 30 ferry ticket on to Calais So , assuming you do n't just end up buying a normal cheap Eurostar ticket , and you do n't decide on using the return half of a London-Calais day return by ferry If you did want to book , then the <URL> that you ca n't book pass holder fares online . Instead , your options are to book by phone on +44 ( 0 ) 1233 617 575 ( and I believe pay a fiver booking fee ) , or buy the ticket at a Eurostar terminal and hope that there are still some passholder fares left ( otherwise it 's going to get expensive ! )
but [ tipping ] is meant to be for a good job Yes , in theory , but in practice it 's standard to ( almost ) always leave a tip . Even if the service is merely " bad " , then you generally leave a tip on the low end of the scale . If it really is appalling ( ie , they got your order completely wrong , or were excessively slow for no good reason ) , then you leave a very low tip ( ie , 5 % ) , or leave the 1-cent tip if you want to send a pointed message . I think I 've only ever done that once or twice ( and I eat at restaurants a lot ) . It 's not legal to pay staff less than the minimum wage excluding tips , so that 's not really the issue . However , minimum wage ( in the United States ) is <URL> ( $ 7.25 / hr ) compared to other countries like <URL> ( $ 10 + ) and <URL> ( $ 16 ) . And then , service staff are often paid on the low end of the scale , despite the relatively difficult nature of the work . So it 's a sign of respect to tip generously as a policy ; and there is a stigma attached to being too cheap , for which poor tipping is presumed evidence .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
end question
start question
Can checked baggage on airplanes ever get wet ?
They will get wet , twice . Luggage are almost always transported in small chains of relatively flat carts pulled by a motor vehicle . Then , a conveyor belt loads them into the plane as works move each piece from the carts to the belt . As some comments say , the carts sometimes are covered , which I have seen but it was not complete coverage , so water will still reach a number of luggage items . As you can see this gives them plenty of opportunities to get wet , including while being loaded on the cart , while in the carts and while on the conveyor belt . The process is the same at arrival except in the reverse order . Very few suitcases are completely waterproof but how much water gets in varies . To ensure things like sensitive equipment stays dry , most people use pelican cases . A cardboard box will certainly allow water infiltration quickly , even more so than other materials , particularly because it is absorbent . Some airports even place luggage on the ground , either while waiting to be moved or for passengers to pick up themselves ( I 've had to do this several times in small airports ) . Plastic wrap is a good idea and the kind that wraps several times over it quite effective . There is no guarantee that it will absolutely stay dry or not be pierced but , even if it does , you will get much less water in than with a cardboard box . The other option which I use more often is to pack the contents in giant ziplock bags . Again , its not 100 % effective but works nearly every time .
Excess baggage fees are normally per flight but there are variations . In general , fees are charged at check-in time , so they end-up per check-in in most cases . If have to check-in separately for one leg of your flight , you will often be asked to pay the extra fee again . Arguing could help but in my experience they rarely budge , particularly if they are not the same airline as the previous leg . In practice this means : Try to check you baggage and have it tagged all the way through . Even if you have flights back-to-back , as opposed to legs , you can ask the check-in agent to tag the baggage to your final destination while makes it possible to even skip an excess baggage fee .
Often at security they swab my backpack and some of my possessions with a small piece of damp paper . It is supposed to pick up traces of the materials I 've been handling . Then they put it in a machine that analyzes those traces . At customs and immigration it 's set to detect various illicit drugs ( I 've seen this on Border Security ) but at security I believe it 's set to detect explosives . Certain people are chosen randomly for a swab . Since you had no residue on your hands that would require them to inspect you further , they sent you on your way . This was n't caused by you leaving a ring on . Leaving a wedding ring on is fine .
I just had a layover in Addis a few days ago . You do not necessarily have to collect your luggage there . Confirm this with the airline agent when you check your bag ( s ) . The destination ticket should indicate Durban airport ( DUR ) . In addition , I can confirm that for an international transit , you do not need to clear Ethiopian immigration controls .
Since the other answers are nonspecific , I 'm going to answer myself by saying what happened on my trip this week . The truth seems to be " it depends on the airport " , so do n't count on it . The first thing is that Norwegian does n't appear to like gate-checking strollers , which was the point of the question . From Helsinki to Stockholm , the people at the bag drop wanted us to check it . They give you a plastic bag , which is probably as robust as a cheap duffel bag . From Stockholm to Helsinki , when we went to the bag drop they said " That 's a <URL> . You should just fold it up and put it in the overhead bin . " ( It fits comfortably in the bin . )
Number one easiest way : A padlock . It comes down to psychology : you 're looking for a bag to steal - are you going to choose a locked one or an easily-opened one ? Secondly , having a unique , distinct bag is likely a deterrent too . A thief is less likely to pick up the gaudy unicorn-emblazoned pink and purple backpack than the standard black bag that has 9 duplicates of it on the carousel . <URL> Try not to make a bathroom stop until you 've got your bag . The longer it 's travelling around the carousel on its own , the longer it 's unattended and inviting attention . Another simple idea is to buy cheap , simple luggage ( expensive luggage implies the contents may be valuable too ) .
US or Canadian citizens or permanent residents <URL> regardless of where they live . But as part of the <URL> , you must travel to a <URL> for an interview . Currently there are none in California or Nevada . Most of them , predictably , are near the northern border or in Canada .
Yes , but it depends on 2 things : Your destination country law , and your home country law . Here is an example : Indonesian couples wants to get married in Singapore . The following rules apply : They have to apply their notice of Marriage at <URL> At least one of them has to be physically present within Singapore for a minimum of 15 days before the date of notice of marriage . Both of them should not have married before and each of them have to bring one witness . Full details can be found at <URL> After they married in Singapore , the marriage itself is legal ( almost ) worldwide , however Indonesian government does not accept the marriage certificate as legal document . In the order to make it legal , the couple has to get a translation of their ROM certificate and reference letter in Singapore 's Indonesian Embassy , and within 1 year they should report to Indonesian Civil Office back in Indonesia ( You ca n't just report in Indonesian Embassy ) Trivia : A lot of Indonesian married in Singapore before 2009 because Indonesian law did not allow different-religion marriage , and then reported their marriage back in Indonesia .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
Short summary of the caveats/issues mentioned thus far in the comments and answers : Individual checked item and overall baggage weight limits . Individual checked item and overall baggage dimension &amp; volume limits . Costs might be higher than they appear : Airline costs per extra luggage item may rise with the number of items . General charge for having extra baggage . The airline might not actually mean what their website says . Handling all those pieces of luggage at the airport . Transporting the luggage to and from the airport : Another person 's help may be necessary . A larger vehicle may be necessary . Customs : Need to declare and prove you 're moving to another country and transporting your personal affects . The need for 10 suitable containers for luggage ; if not suitcases , then need to check whether the airline is willing to carry cardboard boxes , thick garbage-style plastic bags etc. . Baggage might get wet ( <URL> )
In the winter of 2011 Ryanair grounded 80 of its fleet in the US State of Arizona . With fuel accounting for 40-50 % of costs , more airlines are flying significantly less in winter . According to research carried out by anna.aero in the article entitled " Grounding planes in winter improves profitability : The new network planning reality explored among Europe 's airlines " in July 2012 : Airlines generally earn their profits in summer when demand , yields ( and capacity constraints ) are highest . In the past , when fuel was much cheaper , airline economics were dominated by fixed costs -- aircraft ownership , salaries , and the perceived wisdom that aircraft should be kept flying even in winter , even if loads and yields were significantly lower , as this helped to reduce unit cost per Available Seat Kilometre ( at least on paper ) . Although flying less pushes up the unit cost of the flying that does take place , the idea is that unit revenues will go up by a higher percentage as there will be fewer empty seats during the off-peak period as reduced capacity should lead to higher average fares and better load factors . It would appear that other airlines are following suit eg Easyjet , German Wings . The full article including analysis : <URL>
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Skipping a flight you 're checked in for with bags is generally not a great idea . Since your bags ca n't fly without you ( because Terrorism ( tm ) ) , they have to unload your bags , which will almost certainly delay the flight and piss off the baggage handlers . In other words , doing this would usually be a bit of a dick move on your part . However , in this particular case ( as Doc notes ) , you 're flying internationally from Korea to DTW , which means your bags will be unloaded so you can collect them and take them through Customs . So : Nothing happens , you can simply leave during your layover . The airline will mark you as a no-show for that flight . Nobody cares if you do this occasionally , but the airline will eventually twig on if you do this ( say ) every week and might send you a nasty letter , confiscate your frequent flyer miles and/or ban you from flying with them again . and 4 . See above : you 're required to collect your bags at DTW anyway , so all you need to do is not check them back in afterwards .
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
Think about what your luggage goes through from the time you check it until you get it back . It travels on automatic conveyor belts . In many situations , it must be shunted from one conveyor belt to another . This is done by machines , not humans . The machines can not see the " fragile " tag . It is moved from conveyor-belt to dolly by a human . The human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . It is packed in the cargo hold by humans . Depending on the orientation of the item , the human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . When they pack it in the cargo hold , they may put other bags on top of it . It spends some time outside , exposed to the elements . No matter how many fragile tags you put on , there will come a point where your suitcase must make its way up the conveyor belt into the aircraft . If it is raining , snowing , cold , or hot , it will be exposed to the elements at this point . It spills out of an automatic conveyor line onto a rotating baggage carousel . As it rotates on the carousel , other bags may fall on top of it . Other passengers may pick it up , thinking it 's their bag , and handle it . When they discover it 's not theirs , they may , or may not , honor the " Fragile " sticker . Oh , and let 's not forget : It flies through the air , at 40,000 feet , at 600 miles per hour . It may encounter bad weather or turbulence , causing intensive shaking of the contents for a prolonged period of time . When all is said and done , it 's a miracle anything gets anywhere unscathed , " fragile " sticker notwithstanding .
The Airport Limousine ( route # 600 ) bus runs every 18-20 minutes between Seogwipo and the airport in Jeju City express , stopping only at a few select stops , including Jungmun Tourist Resort Complex ( and International Convention Center ) , World Cup Stadium and terminating at the Seogwipo KAL Hotel . These are all usable stops . They 're there for people at the stadium/hotel/resorts to get on the airport limo to the airport , or to get from the airport back to any point . However , if you 're wanting to use it to get from say , stop 2 to stop 3 , there 's no reason for a driver to say ' no you ca n't get off ' . ( That would be , in essence , kidnapping ;) ) You may find , however , that the driver gets frustrated as there 's no way to charge you a partial ticket , but if you 're ok paying the full fare , just say you 're buying a ticket , and then request an early stop . It probably would n't be the most common , or economical use of the bus , however , and it may be worth investigating whether a taxi or regular city bus is n't more useful for short distances , depending on your planned route .
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
They will get wet , twice . Luggage are almost always transported in small chains of relatively flat carts pulled by a motor vehicle . Then , a conveyor belt loads them into the plane as works move each piece from the carts to the belt . As some comments say , the carts sometimes are covered , which I have seen but it was not complete coverage , so water will still reach a number of luggage items . As you can see this gives them plenty of opportunities to get wet , including while being loaded on the cart , while in the carts and while on the conveyor belt . The process is the same at arrival except in the reverse order . Very few suitcases are completely waterproof but how much water gets in varies . To ensure things like sensitive equipment stays dry , most people use pelican cases . A cardboard box will certainly allow water infiltration quickly , even more so than other materials , particularly because it is absorbent . Some airports even place luggage on the ground , either while waiting to be moved or for passengers to pick up themselves ( I 've had to do this several times in small airports ) . Plastic wrap is a good idea and the kind that wraps several times over it quite effective . There is no guarantee that it will absolutely stay dry or not be pierced but , even if it does , you will get much less water in than with a cardboard box . The other option which I use more often is to pack the contents in giant ziplock bags . Again , its not 100 % effective but works nearly every time .
You can also catch a glimpse of North Korea on the Jayu-ro highway , for instance around <URL> . Nothing very interesting though , just some hills across the sea . The tour I took to DMZ ( you ca n't get there without a tour ) took us via that road , because it 's one of the easiest places to see North Korea close to Seoul . According to our tour guide , you notice that all trees are chopped down , hence it must be North Korea .
The simple answer is , it depends ! Each airline , and even sometimes each airport , will have different rules about what is and is not allowed . As a general rule , most airlines will NOT automatically check your luggage through for an overnight connection . You will normally need collect your luggage when you land , and re-check it the following morning . This is normally a good thing as it allows you access to your luggage for your overnight stay . However this is not true for all airlines - some WILL check your luggage through , especially for short overnight stays ( eg , arrive 11:30 pm , depart 5:30 am ) . The only way to find out exactly what they are going to do is to ask the airline , and even then you might find that when you get to the airport they proceed to do something different anyway ! If you want access to your luggage at the stopover point then basically all airlines will honor such a request at check-in . This is called " short-checking " , and although not all airlines will do it in a general sense , they all should for an overnight layover . If you want them to keep your luggage overnight , then it may be a bit more of a struggle . Some airlines , and even some airports , have policies that they simply will not do this - so whilst you can ask , be ready for a refusal . The one time you may be able to talk them into doing this where they otherwise refuse is if you are not able to go through passport control at the connecting country ( eg , you do n't have a visa ) , in which case you will not be able collect your luggage - in this case they may be more willing to check it all the way through , however I would not bet on this always being successful .
end question
start question
What are some general guidelines for sending a good request on Couchsurfing ?
This answer refers not only to the couchsurfing.org site , but to the plethora of other sites that provide the same function . Among these are gumtree.com and london.craigslist.co.uk and jewgether.org Other sites will undoubtedly join the social phemomenon first uncovered by couchsurfing.org . There is no need for a grand opus in such matters , but it is important to identify yourself and provide at least some background information about you and the purpose of your journey . And you need to be specific about your contemplated over night stays ... You can use this as a template ... Hello == appropriate salutation == , I am contacting you because you are identified on == web site == as a couch-surfing host in == name of city == . I expect to be in == name of city == on == arrival date == and remain for == number of days == , hence this email . Briefly , I am == your nationality = , == age == , == gender == , == occupation == and visiting == name of city == because == why you are there == and will need a place to stay . Would you please let me know if these dates are available via return email . Specifically , I would arrive at your location at == time and date == , and these are my inclusive dates : == list of overnights == . Kind regards , == Your full name == Naturally , the ASL part is optional , but recommended in order to avoid any awkward situations upon arrival . Overall , keep it brief , professional and to the point . Be sure that the host understands all of your contemplated over night stays . When you get a reply , you can then begin negotiating rates and other matters if needed . NOTE : I will check out fixing the tag so that it refers to the broader social phenomenon of hospitality rather than a proprietary site .
While I do n't regularly sleep in the airports , I suggest you check out <URL> : Whether you are sleeping in the airport by yourself or with friends , it is good to know where security is . Know where their office is and look for video cameras in the spot you decide to stay the night . They 've probably seen many airport sleepers before you and they will direct you to a safe spot . If you suspect a problem with airport security , you may want to follow this tip and sleep in the car : Whether you are stuck in the airport overnight or choose to be there voluntarily , there may be a chance that you will be uncomfortable and unhappy with your surroundings in the terminal . If you are travelling on a budget and do not want to fork out for one of the airport hotels , head over to the car rentals hall to find out the cost of a car rental and ( assuming you can keep the car in the lot at no cost ) sleep in the car . The great part about this is that you can recline on padded seats and there will be no annoying security announcements or rattling luggage carts whipping past your head throughout the night . On the negative side , car horns and screeching tires may jolt you from your slumber . Sure the car rental staff may look into your car wondering if you 've had a stroke and the bathroom may be an issue depending on the location of the nearest toilet , but hey , you 're saving money here ! Very important - remember to check the drop-off hours to ensure a staff member will be there when you " drop-off " the car before your flight the next morning ! This is easier at larger airports . Also , make sure to <URL> so you know if there are known problems before you face them . Good luck !
Yes indeed , most US airlines charge for all check baggage . There are exceptions if you have " status " with either the airline themselves or with any of their affiliated airlines ( eg , Star Alliance , OneWorld , etc ) , or if you 're flying in First Class , or if you 're connecting from an international flight , or if you have one of their pay-for credit cards , but for most occasional domestic travellers you 'll be charged to check any bags . The fees vary from airline to airline , but are generally fairly similar . International trips are higher , although most airlines still do not charge for ( at least ) the first bag for most international trips . The fees are available on their airlines websites . eg , for both <URL> and <URL> it 's $ 25 for the first checked bag , and $ 35 for a second checked bag for domestic flights , and whilst the first bag is free for international flights the second will cost you up to $ 100 . <URL> depends on the type of ticket you have purchased , but is generally $ 25 for each of the first two check bags . The main exception to the above is <URL> , who do not charge anything to check your first 2 bags ( with standard weight limits/etc ) . Some airlines , such as <URL> , charge different rates depending on whether you pay for your checked bags in advance ( $ 28 / $ 35 for domestic up to 40 pound/18kg ) or at the airport ( $ 38 / $ 45 ) . Mind you , Spirit also charge you between $ 20 and $ 45 ( up to $ 100 starting in November ! ) for your carry-on bag , so avoiding them completely is generally the best option .
<URL> ! Try to find a brand that is not in every Ikea store , though :
California , USA is one place where you see these posted rates . I believe this is to comply with <URL> : ( a ) Every keeper of a hotel , inn , boardinghouse or lodginghouse , shall post in a conspicuous place in the office or public room , and in every bedroom of said hotel , boardinghouse , inn , or lodginghouse , a printed copy of this section , and a statement of rate or range of rates by the day for lodging . ( b ) No charge or sum shall be collected or received for any greater sum than is specified in subdivision ( a ) . For any violation of this subdivision , the offender shall forfeit to the injured party one hundred dollars ( $ 100 ) or three times the amount of the sum charged in excess of what he is entitled to , whichever is greater . There shall be no forfeiture under this subdivision unless notice be given of the overcharge to such keeper within 30 days after payment of such charges and such keeper shall fail or refuse to make proper adjustment of such overcharge . I assume the intention was to prevent things like price gouging for distressed travelers , special events , or customers the management sees as undesirable ( e.g. racism ) . However , as you point out , hotels often set this rate very high , so that they can charge high rates when they want , and claim everyone else is getting a discount . Given this , I 'm not sure why they stop at prices that are 3-5 times the actual rates ; why not post a rate of a million dollars per night , and have complete freedom ? There may be some additional regulations that I do n't know about .
<URL> has a great collection of walks , including many in the Peak District . It has information on grading/difficulty , length , locations , detailed instructions , and items of interest along the way . It does not have detailed maps , but provides references to the relevant OS maps that should be taken along .
I 'm far from being an expert in sailing , but being a native speaker helps when searching so this is what I came across : <URL> ( PDF , 24.4 MB ) CONTENTS Introduction Sail the Ionian Sea Sail around Peloponnese and Kythira Sail around Attica and Saronikos Gulf Sail through the Cyclades Sail through the Sporades Sail the North Aegean Sea Sail around the Dodecanese Sail around Crete Discover a variety of water sports activities Useful Information It 's not very detailed , but a good starting point I reckon . Enjoy your holiday !
As a general rule , I would advise against renting a car for the entire trip . Renting a car in Turkey is expensive . The bus network in Turkey is very dense . Bus travel is comfortable and not expensive . Prefer the busses for long distance travel . You may consider to rent a car locally to access some sights . For very long distances , flying may be an option too . It 's more expensive than taking the bus , but you save a lot of ( precious ) holiday time . Do n't forget that Turkey is a big country and distances can be very long . It would be a shame not to stay some days in Istanbul . It is a great city not to be missed . Furthermore it is interesting to observe the contrast with the rest of the country . Cappadocia is a pretty unusual natural place . It should be on you itinerary . For the rest it depends on your style : If you want a packed trip , you can consider to go from Istanbul to Ankara and then to Cappadocia . Next you could go to the Mount Nemrut ( Nemrut Dağı ) , another " unusual " place . Finish you trip in Şanlıurfa and the go back to Istanbul , possibly by plane . If you prefer a trip with less kilometers , stay some days in Istanbul , travel then to Bursa . It 's an interesting city , a bit off the beaten track . Then go to Cappadocia , via Ankara . If you really want to do it in depth , split your time between Istanbul and Cappadocia . In July , I would stay away from the Mediterranean , unless you do have to go to the Sea . It 's really crowded then . If you do want to go to the Mediterranean , go to Çıralı , some 80 kilometers West from Antalya . If you are tempted by mountains , steppe and austere landscapes , you can consider a journey in the East . Contrary to what I say above , I would recommend that you rent a car for this precise trip . It goes through sparsely populated regions , where the bus network is not as good as it is in the West . It 's possible to do this trip on public transport , but a private car is the better option . Fly from Istanbul to Erzurum . From there you can make the following tour : Eruzururm - Yusufeli - Kars - Doğubeyazıt - Erzurum . That keeps you busy for a week or even more . If you like slow travel , you might also consider to replace the flight to or from Erzurum by a train journey . The Doğu Ekspresi is a daily sleeper train running between Ankara and Erzurum . It takes + - 16 hours . Combined with some days in Istanbul , and possibly a day in Anakra , the 13 days are quickly filled . Have a look at <URL> . It 's a very good and quite complete resource for traveling in Turkey . All the places I mention are described there .
Look at this : <URL> You could do it in stages . It 's really tough in places but the scenery is fantastic .
Essentially it 's quite easy to find some suburbs considered ' Irish ' , from <URL> . From there : Far Southwest Side ( Beverly , Mount Greenwood ) Ireland in Chicago : authentic Irish pubs , brogues , galleries , and the odd haunted castle , all extremely far from the city center Further down , it speaks of Ethnic neighbourhoods : Chicago 's Chinatown is among the most active Chinatowns in the world . It even has its own stop on the CTA Red Line . It 's on the South Side near Bridgeport , birthplace of the Irish political power-brokers who have run Chicago government for most of the last century . More Irish communities exist on the Far Southwest Side , where they even have an Irish castle to seal the deal . The Southwest Side houses enormous populations of Polish Highlanders and Mexicans , as well as reduced Lithuanian and Bohemian communities . Conveniently , Wikitravel also has an <URL> , where most of these neighbourhoods are located . The Far Southwest Side of Chicago is home to a large Irish-American community , a ton of Irish pubs , and even a replica Irish castle . Sounds like to get the ultimate experience , you want to head to Mount Greenwood , where NO tourists get to and the inside of pubs there will feel like you 're across the seas in Ireland . In terms of landmarks , the most ' Irish ' one seems to be the castle : Givens Irish Castle - Certainly the oddest sight in Chicago 's Far Southwest Side , this building is a replica of castle on Ireland 's River Dee , built by a nostalgic and wealthy Irish-American for his fiancee in 1885 .
There are three methods to purify your water : boil , chemically treat or filter or a combination of them . Your guides will boil water for you , so you should not need to chemically treat the water they give you . However , if you are unsure about the water you get , you are free to do additional purification . <URL> has a nice article on water purification . <URL> is a refined search of some of their water purification product . Except for the last day of the summit , the temperature should not be low enough for water to freeze . However , on the last day of the summit the temperature can get well below freezing , so you should have an insulated bottle for this part . If you carry a camelback , the water in the tube will also freeze if it 's not insulated .
Yes , she will need a new visa . From the <URL> : _ 25 . I got married and changed my name on my new passport , but my visa , which has not expired , is still on my old one . Do I need a new visa or can I just travel bringing along the two passports ? The name on the visa has to match with the one on the valid passport . In this case , it is advisable that you apply for a new visa in order to avoid problems with the Brazilian immigration authorities .
All the good <URL> are close to Ko Tao but if you want to stay on Ko Samui you can easily book a day trip from Samui and they 'll take you to the Ko Tao sites ( more expensive than from Ko Tao ) . <URL> is considered the best dive site in the Gulf of Thailand . But talk to the guys on site to give you more advice .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
In addition to Empire State building which is currently the highest vantage point there is also <URL> which from people who have compared the two offers better views then Empire State Building . Top of the Rock is a 3-tiered observation deck on the 67th , 69th , and 70th floors of <URL> ( the upper decks 260 m above the street level you get an unobstructed , 360 degree view of New York City ) . Enter on 50th Street between 5th and 6th Avenue . Personally I have n't been on either since views from WTC South Tower roof deck were much better then either one of those 2 places .
Much of this is answered on <URL> It is not official info but it looks good to me . Also it seems to apply for US citizens only , but I assume similar for the other nationalities you list . Are there any special requirements for a 10-year visa ? No . The requirement for a 10-year visa are the same as that of a 1 year visa . [ ... ] Who is eligible for a 10-year multiple entry visa ? All US passport holders can apply for a 10-year multiple entry visa in the following categories : [ ... ] It also does not cost more nor take longer to process . You only need to provide documentation ( flight/hotel/invitation / ... ) for your first trip . Apparently the visa form does not have a 10-year option that you can check but they suggest to tick " other " and write " 10 years " in the blank space .
You 'll find that it varies from host to host , and this is often indicated on their profile . Some are excited to meet new people , but ca n't actually host - so they 'll often just say they want to meet you in town for a coffee or similar . Others will have a bed and a spare room , and can be amazingly generous . However they do understand that you 're travelling , are on a budget , and while they may want to show you around the city , they 'll also ( usually ) be keen to help you enjoy your time while on your budget . Some just want a new person to talk to in the evenings , while others will take you around . I 'd suggest signing up , creating a profile , and then looking around at some of the profiles in the cities you wish to visit . It 'll give you an idea of what they 're looking for in a guest - often they 'll say in their profiles that perhaps they just wish to practise a new language , or they like meeting new people . As for bringing a gift or taking them to dinner - do whatever feels comfortable , and do n't force them into it either . Some cultures it 's very important to treat a person when they come to your city/house , while others it 's customary to bring something - that will depend on where you go , and is probably a topic for another question . ;)
Clothes Wear confortable clothes . Try everything heavily before travelling . Remember that you will do the same leg movement for several hours . Seams or other similar things rubbing the skin will " burn " and to the limit hurt . Take lite clothes to cycle . Even with cold weather you will heat up . Weight Try not taking more than 20Kg ( the less the better as you can imagine ) Eating and drinking Carry a lot of water ( and drink it ) . Remeber that 1Lt water = 1Kg and that 's weight you will carry so manage well you water reserve . Prefer carbohydrates Small cereal and chocolate bars are excellent snacks . ( Try to avoid too much chocolate or sweet things though , including " sugar " drinks . These will make you more thirsty ) . Cooking I am not sure it fits your situation but considering you will be cycling and camping it might be a good idea to take some cooking gear . Now and than it 's good to be able to prepare a warm meal or drink something warm . Tea , for example , is a nice drink to carry if you like it . Just take a small camping stove and a camping cooking kit . You can find these for very affordable prices and lite enough . If you 're in a " <URL> " you can also <URL> . Tools Before departure you should do a checkup on your bike . Brakes , brake cables and the tire condition is fundamental . Put oil on the chains and other mechanical parts . Take the tools you need to do minimal repairs . Choose carefully to avoid weight . Most good quality bicycles only need one or two types of tools to do standard repairs like adjusting brakes or removing a wheel . Think of what are the most commons things that can happen and prepare for those situations . Some examples are flat tires ( very common ) , adjust brakes ( after few hundred km 's you will need that ) , broken chain ( rare , discussable , but the tool to fix it is small ) . Take a tube to replace in case of a flat tire , and a tube repair kit . A small pump is also important . Sleeping There is not much to say here . Reduce your needs to the bare minimum . Take whatever you really need , as small as possible and adequate to the weather conditions . Of course like all camping ( and biking ) gear smaller means either less resistant , less warm or a lot more expensive . Try to balance your needs . Physical preparation / finishing successfully It 's good that you have some preparation . You should at least enjoy cyicling and do it regulary . It 's important to know your limits and plan the Kms/day you will do . Above that , the most important thing is will . If you really want to do it you will do it . Listen your body though and allways have plan B ( eg. : extra meal , extra water for emergencies , extra stop points planned etc. ) in case you have to rest or stop earlier in the day . You should also be prepared to skip a scheduled night stop . It can happen that you plan a place to stay and upon arrival you discover you ca n't stay there for some reason . Last words Avoid carrying things on your back . Try to put everything on the bike . You will probably need a back support and double bags . This depends a lot on the terrain , but if you 're going in a flat clean road ) even if it 's unpaved/dirt you can use the maximum pressure in the tires . It will be easier to cycle . If you start " feeling " too much the ground decrease the pressure a bit . It will increase safety and comfort ( it will be a bit harder to cycle though ) . You have to evaluate it yourself . Do n't try any " stunts " with the bicycle . Even if the stunt is not that big deal like climbing a small step . The center of gravity of the bike shifted and its behavior is completely different with the extra load . You can easily get a flat tire or worse fall and injure yourself or break something on the bike jeopardizing the trip . I learned that the hard way . I was lucky enough not to jeopardize the trip but it was a short miss .
To bring this question to an answered state , I have a good friend in Malta who lives in Valletta and has a vacation flat in Birzebbugia . I put the question to her exactly as you asked it . Presumably by ' city ' and ' harbour ' you mean Valletta . You can not rely upon walking through the city to find vacant rooms . You may luck out or may not , but in Valletta the odds are against you . In the other cities you may need a working knowledge of Maltese to read the signs outside the smaller B&amp;B type of lodging opportunities . On the plus side , if one proprietor takes you in , then you are pretty well set for the rest of Malta with their referrals .
end question
start question
Should I tip my driver in Manila when somebody else is paying ?
I was in a similar situation before , I found out that drivers are on minimum wage and do not stick to office hours . Their employers usually summon them whenever they wish . So they will welcome tips and it might be a real help for them actually . The employer was a friend/colleague , and I noticed that she tipped him , he buys the stuff with his own money ( coffee or something ) then when she pays him back she gives a little more ( 10 or 20 pesos ) . When I was with the driver alone ( twice ) running my private errands , I tipped him at the end of the day , once 100 pesos and the second time it was 200 pesos because it was a few errands with many stops , he carried stuff for me as well , I did n't ask him but he insisted . The last day he just took me to the airport , I gave him a 10 USD bill as I was running out of pesos . I have n't asked a local about this specific situation at the time , but I know locals do tip drivers/waiters and I did that in my previous visits . I think my estimation was right because the guy seemed happy and helpful . You might not be obliged to do so , but it 's always a good idea to help people on minimum wages .
You are legally in the UK up to midnight of the expiry date of your visa . If the date is 15 Feb 2014 , for example , you have until midnight local time to leave . Just adding ... If something happens and you ca n't depart , you can soften the effect by reporting to the Border Force ( or in their absence , the police ) . An Immigration Officer is empowered under Paragraph 31 and 31/A to extend , but he does n't have to if he does n't want to . The police will slag you off , but at least you tried . So it 's midnight of the expiry date . Adding : For those interested in the ' grace period ' , the formal penalties start to kick in at 28 days . Those are absolute and enforceable bans against entry . But even for a time shorter than that , a subsequent application to renew or get a new work permit will be invariably refused on credibility grounds .
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
In the US hotels I stay in , room service dining typically includes a service charge and delivery charge with wording such as : All Room Service Orders are Subject to State and Local Taxes , a Delivery Charge of $ 3.50 , and a Service Charge of 22 % . The Service Charge Includes Gratuity . Being the USA , there will normally be an extra space for yet another tip . Feel free to draw a line through it .
Wikipedia has a page on <URL> , and claims : Service charges are included with the bill , and tipping is uncommon However , their link is broken and I suspect it might be wrong . All other resources I can find online indicate that you should , and how much . <URL> 10 % in restaurants and taxis . $ .50 - .75 per bag to porters <URL> : In Paraguay , restaurants that do not automatically add gratuity ( it will say if they do at the bottom of your menu ) then a tip of 10 percent is enough . I found that my servers delighted in the other - than - monetary - tips I gave them . Paperback books , picture books ( postcards ) and compliments to their managers were high on their list . In taxis no tips are necessary . The standard of $ .50 - $ .75 per bag to handlers was the norm . <URL> : 10 % should be left for the waiters . Small change should be given to porters and taxi drivers . So perhaps the culture has changed , but all signs are indicating that yes , you should tip , and especially if the restaurant indicates as such .
Unless you 're from a country that requires you to obtain an <URL> , there is no sharing of information as a general rule . Even in cases where there are information sharing agreements , such as between <URL> , <URL> , or in the <URL> , the information that is shared is about people from outside the info-sharing nations , but not about their own citizens . It may be possible for one country to ask for legal assistance to obtain information about a specific person , and who knows what information is shared by the secret services , of course , but on the visible side , countries do not know what their citizens do while away . EDIT As pointed out by @MeNoTalk , the <URL> , where airplane passenger data is transmitted to the destination country . Thus , your government may not know where you 're headed , but they will know from where you return , if you come back by plane .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
If you are wealthy , like people of that time who completed the Grand Tour , you may be interested in the offers of <URL> . Most European great cities are visited : London , Paris , Vienna , Prague , Budapest , Venice , Istanbul ...
The other two answers pretty well covered things , but here are a few more notes : <URL> ( In other words , one can treat the red light as a stop sign . ) In some ( maybe all ? ) states , one can be ticketed for driving too slow , even if there is no posted minimum speed limit . ( The citation is usually for something like , " Impeding the flow of traffic . " ) In most states , it is illegal to be seen drinking alcohol in public , including ( and especially ) as a passenger in a car . However , <URL> . In Mississippi , it is still legal for drivers to consume alcohol while driving , as long as their blood alcohol content is below 0.08 % . From personal experience , I 've noticed that in some European countries it is common for cars that are about to overtake on a highway to hover for a while between two lanes ( I saw this a lot in Iberia ) . Also , in Scandanavia in particular , I saw a lot of cars in the right lane actually move onto the shoulder while being overtaken . In my experience , I have never seen either of these practices in the US , and they likely violate many states ' regulations . Given the automotive boom of the mid-20th century , many large , multi-lane roads were built . As such , putting traffic lights at the intersections of these 3 + lane roads to allow left turns became a bottleneck . Therefore , some states implemented other means of turning left on large roads . For example , the <URL> is very common , especially in the Northeast . The " <URL> " is also very common in Michegan . This last note is n't so much about regulations , but I 'd highly recommend bringing or renting a GPS/SatNav . Unlike in most of Europe , I find signage in the US to be particularly bad . For example , in Europe there are often signs in the countryside pointing one to the direction for the nearest cities . In the US , such signs usually only point to the closest highway , so unless you know specifically which highway will point you to your destination , you may be out of luck . Additions ( 2011-07-19 ) : In an increasing number of states , it is illegal to operate a mobile phone while driving . The wording of the laws varies by state ; in some it is even illegal to touch a mobile phone while driving . In most ( if not all ) states it is okay to use a hands-free device ( e.g. , a bluetooth headset ) , though . In some states ( e.g. , Oregon and New Jersey ) it is illegal to pump your own fuel ; all of the gas stations are " full service " ( i.e. , an attendant must pump the fuel for you ) . In these states it is not necessary for you to tip the attendant for his or her service , although I am sure it is appreciated . I am not sure about Oregon , but at least in New Jersey I know that it is illegal to exit your vehicle while your fuel is being pumped ( presumably for the safety of the attendant ) . I believe these laws were enacted in the late 1940s/early 1950s because the government thought that pumping fuel was too difficult and hazardous an activity for the average motorist . The laws have probably persisted because repealing them would mean the loss of a great number of gas attendant jobs . In Oregon , it is possible to find yourself stranded after hours in the middle of nowhere until the gas station opens , so plan ahead . If you plan on using a radar detector , <URL> ( much in the same way that they vary by country in Europe ) . In general , it is legal to use a radar detector in all states except Virginia and Washington , D.C. . In some states ( e.g. , Minnesota and California ) , it is illegal to mount the radar detector from the windshield , since it obstructs the driver 's vision .
The best way to leave a tip is in cash and prominently with a note . It 's best to tip once at the end of the stay . It makes it more convenient for you , and for them . Do n't worry about not getting the right person - it all averages out , and tips are frequently pooled anyway . However the rest of this answer applies if you are leaving tips daily . Do n't worry about the language issue . Most domestics know enough English to understand " this tip is for you " , and they are used to this so just leaving a note is enough , even if they ca n't read it . The real reason for the note is so that they can prove to management that they did n't steal the money . Again if you leave the tip at the end it 's obvious they were n't stealing , as you were n't taking any money left behind .
It turned out that Flying Blue is not as restrictive as mentioned on their homepage . Even though they require you to hand in the original boarding pass , it is possible to get the miles with just the e-ticket number and any kind of proof that you paid for the flights . In my case , this was an invoice . So the answer to the question is : Send FlyingBlue an email and tell them your problem .
Rossio / Chiado area are both very good options . And so is near Parque Eduardo VII though I have some comments here : If it 's near the Rotund ( Marquês ) , it 's practicaly downtown , it 's perfectly walkable . It 's no longer than 10 min for Bairro Alto . You have the begining of Avenida da Liberdade right there and right after starts Rossio . You can find many ( good ) restaurants along the way . This is a very important and beautiful Avenue . If it 's in the upper part of PE VII , than you can add an extra 10 min to arrive to Bairro Alto or anywhere else downtown . It 's , of course , walkable as well , but a bit more . It depends on your likes/dislikes . Regarding subway : depending on where you stay near PEXVII you have several choices for the station : Marques , Parque or S. Sebastiao . Subway closes around 1AM .
I was in a similar situation before , I found out that drivers are on minimum wage and do not stick to office hours . Their employers usually summon them whenever they wish . So they will welcome tips and it might be a real help for them actually . The employer was a friend/colleague , and I noticed that she tipped him , he buys the stuff with his own money ( coffee or something ) then when she pays him back she gives a little more ( 10 or 20 pesos ) . When I was with the driver alone ( twice ) running my private errands , I tipped him at the end of the day , once 100 pesos and the second time it was 200 pesos because it was a few errands with many stops , he carried stuff for me as well , I did n't ask him but he insisted . The last day he just took me to the airport , I gave him a 10 USD bill as I was running out of pesos . I have n't asked a local about this specific situation at the time , but I know locals do tip drivers/waiters and I did that in my previous visits . I think my estimation was right because the guy seemed happy and helpful . You might not be obliged to do so , but it 's always a good idea to help people on minimum wages .
If you have some specific plan and are not moving constantly , consider booking specific trains directly . This will definitely be cheaper than renting a car for several weeks and will probably be cheaper than an Eurail pass as well . You can read more about elsewhere on this site or on <URL> but since many trains have restrictions for Eurail pass holders , they do n't provide as much flexibility as they used to , especially in France . An important factor is whether you are traveling alone or not . With a group , traveling by car can be cheaper but if you are alone it 's likely to be much more expensive . Depending on where you come from , you might find petrol to be quite expensive ( less than in the UK or the Netherlands , though ) and you have to remember that most motorways are toll roads ( crossing France East-West will cost you about 60 $ toll , that 's excluding petrol and any other cost for the car ) . If you need to cover long distances ( say go from Paris to the South of France ) , trains are also likely to be faster and more comfortable so the car 's main advantage is really flexibility . Regarding snow , I do n't think it should be a big concern , certainly for Normandy or most of the South and West of France . Unfortunately , I think most rental cars will not be fitted with winter tires so if you are unlucky and there are a couple of snowy days in December , the best solution would be to " sit them out " wherever you are and just delay the next step of your trip for a day or two . Driving with tire chains is only ever necessary in mountainous area when there is a layer of snow on the road , which is almost never the case for long on main roads ( besides , you ca n't drive fast with tire chains so it 's a last resort to reach some isolated places , not something you would realistically do on a long trip ) . If anything , ice or " freezing rain " is more often a problem than snow . Finally , Normandy as a whole is n't a rural area at all . There are relatively large cities with heavy industry and decent connections to Paris by train . At the same time , if you want to visit the rural or coastal parts of Normandy , a car would certainly be useful and give you a lot more flexibility .
Tipping a filling station attendant is not generally expected in the United States or Canada . Some guides <URL> it is ever expected , though others <URL> there is <URL> on the matter . Anecdotally , in all the times I 've been in Oregon and New Jersey , I have never seen or heard of anyone tipping the attendant simply for pumping gas , except to leave them the change when paying cash ( I have not used a full-serve pump anywhere else in the US or Canada in over 20 years , and can not even think of where to find one ) . Fifty years ago , a good attendant might have checked your oil and coolant levels , wiped the windshield , and checked your tire pressure in addition to filling the tank . An increase in electronic sensors and decrease in drivers ' patience over the years means such attention is rare today . In most places , " full serve " is not really full service , and simply the term used to indicate that an attendant is working the pump . With that noted , except where banned by local ordinance , attended stations charge a higher price , which is understood to cover the wages of the attendant for the basic work of filling the tank and collecting payment . Moreover , unlike a food server or barber , or even barista , there is very little social interaction with the attendant , and tipping usually accompanies more intimate or longer-term interactions . As an etiquette columnist wrote for a <URL> : Tipping is customary only if there are both full-serve and self-serve options at the station and the fuel is priced the same at both . This would exclude areas where self-serve is banned altogether ( including the entire states of New Jersey and Oregon ) , which is borne out by anecdote -- the only people who tip in New Jersey are <URL> . But when extra service is rendered , some tipping may be in order -- various guides suggest $ 1 -- 2 for cleaning the windshields , and at least $ 5 for any work involving getting on the ground or checking under the hood . As <URL> will note , tipping someone working in a service job is always appreciated , and never impolite . Pumping gas is a monotonous , fume-infused job which is at best unpleasant , so I would give some consideration particularly when the weather is hot , cold , or wet .
Although I 'd never presume to tell people what they should do , it would be quite common to tip for delivered housekeeping items such as a toothbrush , toothpaste , extra soap , extra pillow or whatever . The only thing I 'm ever likely to ask for is a toothbrush and/or toothpaste if I 've forgotten mine , and I often do n't have local currency on me . So , sometimes I have tipped and sometimes I have n't , but must say I feel a little guilty for the latter . For something like this , personally I 'd tip something like $ 2 unless I was asking for something extraordinary . What happens in some hotels is that they understand that this might be an issue and will bring up the items and hang over the door handle , knock and leave . If you rush after them you could tip them . Alternatively , ask at the front desk when you check in , especially for toothbrush and toothpaste kits . Often they have them behind the front desk and will give them to you without anyone feeling uncomforable giving/receiving a tip . If they have a shop in the hotel , it can be cheaper buying the item than getting it free .
Yes , you can . On March 23 , 2013 , the ten largest transit smartcards in Japan became fully ( * ) compatible , and this includes Pasmo , Suica and all three systems used in and around Fukuoka : <URL> ( JR Kyushu ) , <URL> ( Nishitetsu ) and <URL> ( Fukuoka City Subway ) . ( diagram <URL> ) ( * ) For tickets , anyway , electronic money is a little more complicated , and there 's a long tail of non-top-ten cards that are only partly compatible . See <URL> for the gruesome details .
As Johns-305 notes , it is likely that they can issue you with both boarding passes when you check-in at SBA , and it may be possible for you to get your own boarding passes in advance online . Some bad news though . You will unfortunately need to exit the secure area and go back through TSA security for this itinerary . Your United flight into SFO will likely arrive in Terminal 3 , but the Avianca flight leaves from <URL> of the International Terminal . There is <URL> for this particular connection . Your bags should be checked through ( confirm this when you drop them off in SBA ) , so you wo n't need to reclaim and recheck them , but you will need to walk to the international terminal and go through TSA security again . Most of the Star Alliance partners leave from the G gates , where there is a post-security connector to Terminal 3 , but unfortunately you 've found one of the exceptions .
You should consult your country 's travel advisories . All countries maintain such advisories , usually the state department is responsible for them . For example here is <URL> . Currently they are not advising against travel , just urging people to be cautious . Similarly the <URL> does not advice against travel but does admonish travelers to avoid any demonstrations . So , as things stand it is probably safe enough as long as you avoid any demonstrations and keep up with the local news . It is worth keeping an eye on these advisories . If they begin to advice against travel you may be able to have the airline refund your tickets or change them . I had a flight to Thailand booked back in 2010 when they had some riots , the airline ( Air Asia ) allowed me to change my destination , at no cost , to Malaysia .
In the US , it 's certainly customary to tip the wait staff - presuming that there are wait staff ! At most buffets in the US there will still be someone that shows you to your table , brings you drinks , takes away your dirty plates , etc. . In these cases most people would tip that person , normally by leaving some cash on the table when leaving . The amount varies greatly , but would normally be in range of $ 1-3 per person depending on the number of people , the price of the buffet , and the level of service provided . For buffets where there is nobody who is acting as your wait staff ( eg , in breakfast buffets in many cheaper hotels ) then you would not normally be expected to leave a tip . Buffets are certainly one of the grayer areas when it comes to tipping . Some people will tell you " yes " , others " maybe " , others " no " - and at the end of the day it 's really up to you . As an Australian living in the US I frequently do n't leave a tip for buffet-style meals depending on the level of service provided - whereas in a non-buffet restaurant I would n't consider not adding a ~ 15 % tip to the bill . In my experience , the US is fairly unique in this regard - I would not expect to tip staff at a buffet in any other country .
end question
start question
Are there any techniques , tricks , or tactics to avoid a one-way fee when renting a car ?
You did n't specify a locale , but within the United States , the answer depends a bit on when and where you are picking the car up and when and where you are dropping it off . Shopping around The obvious first step is to search as broadly as possible and to be as flexible as possible . Compare rates at Kayak , VroomVroomVroom , and other comparison sites . Planning the trip Sometimes , the length of the trip factors into the calculation . A few years ago , I rented a car in Binghamton , NY and drove up to Watertown for a 3-day trip . I then needed to drive to Washington , DC and was quoted something exhorbitant for the 4-day , 1-way rental . After talking with the agent over the phone , however , I " returned " the car to Binghamton on the way down and made a second rental -- in fact , the identical vehicle ; I never even took out my bags . In other words , instead of a 4-day 1-way trip , it was a 3-day return and a 1-day 1-way trip , and that saved me almost a third . Yet I have also heard anecdotally of the reverse , where a 2-day 1-way gets a $ 300 surcharge and the 3-day 1-way does not . Enterprise and perhaps some other agencies only charge the one-way fee if the drop-off location is more than 500 miles from the pickup location . In still other cases , you may be exempt if renting from corporate-owned locations but not from franchises . You will need to do some research on your own whether the cost advantages of renting from a neighborhood location ( namely avoiding airport surcharges and taxes ) outweigh the disadvantage of paying the one-way charge . One-way specials The major rental agencies offer one-way deals as they try to redistribute cars around the country to meet demand . In particular , cars accumulate in warm-weather states in the winter , so in the springtime you 'll often find huge discounts if you pick up in Florida or Arizona and drop off in the Northeast or Midwest ( Hertz for several years has offered $ 5/day to take a compact from Arizona and drop it off in California , Colorado , or a few other states ) . Check the specials pages on their websites . Note that the deal usually applies to only certain types of vehicles and to certain locations , mostly airport locations in major cities . For Australia , Canada , New Zealand , and the US , try searching on auto relocation agency sites like iMoova and TransferCar for current offerings . Some agencies may not charge a one-way fee if the travel is between airport locations entirely within a few large states , such as California or Florida , where there is a healthy circulation of vehicles . You are less likely to find such deals from neighborhood locations or from smaller agencies , because they have smaller fleets with higher utilization and are thus less " liquid " with their cars . Fee-free rate codes Some contract rates or coupons waive the drop-off fee , as various organizations negotiate special rates on behalf of their sales staff or other traveling employees . You can find many lists of such rate and coupon codes on the Internet ; however , you may be asked to demonstrate that you qualify for the particular rate , and in some cases , you must present a physical coupon . Driveaways A driveaway is not a traditional rental car ; instead , you are transporting a car on behalf of its owner from one location to another . In essence , you are a delivery service . Companies like <URL> can help set you up with a car . As might be expected , however , there are significant differences from a traditional rental car . On the one hand , you may get a newer , cleaner , or fancier car , as well as save a lot of money . On the other hand , you will face a high deposit , time and mileage limits , and restrictions such as no eating , no nighttime driving , or no using the trunk . Finally , in some cases there is simply no possibility . I know of no agency that will be happy if you rent from Fairbanks , Alaska and return to Seattle , because there are so few cars that will be dropped off in Fairbanks . Specialty cars ( sports cars , convertibles , etc. ) also tend to be excluded from deals , because they do not circulate as freely and because their patrons are less price-sensitive . International rentals are also tricky . I know anecdotally that trying to rent a car in Western Europe and return it in Eastern Europe is a daunting prospect . Laws can trip you up ; for example , Canadians can not drive a U.S.-registered rental over the border due to import laws ( although they can rent a Canadian-registered vehicle in the U.S. and drive it cross-border ) .
<URL> offers <URL> Wi-Fi , with fixed fee , per minute , pay-as-you-go , and package deals . Their <URL> . It starts at $ 7.95 / month for unlimited worldwide access for two mobile devices . I 've not used the service and am not affiliated , but have them bookmarked for my own travels .
Yes . Anything off the main drag is going to have loose impediments , and a single nick/dent/ding is going to cost a LOT more than the insurance itself . Better safe than sorry , and I learned this the hard way during my trip to Iceland in Jan 2013 .
I 'm a Sri Lankan although not much of a traveler to be honest . There is no civil war here and all parts of the country are safe for tourists to travel . If you are planning to use public transportation I suggest you be careful about your belongings . Also I would suggest you travel with your friend or ask him to hook you up with a guide he knows . I do n't know whether you 've already read this but if you have n't I thoroughly suggest you go through it . <URL> If you are travelling to the north/east , you must read <URL> in the above website .
<URL> has the experimental Maglev train . For fairly obvious reasons , they generally do n't have passengers - although there 's a practical section for it . Currently it 's about 18.4 km long and will become part of the Chūō Shinkansen connecting Tokyo , Nagoya , and Osaka - but at present it 's being extended to 42.8 km to be finished by 2013/2014 , at which point the 9 trillion Yen ( !!!! ) project to build the new fast Shinkansen will kick off ( it got approved earlier this year ) . Citizens of Yamanashi Prefecture and government officials in the area are eligible for free rides , and over 200,000 people have taken part thus far . <URL> has a population of around 860,000 - so that 's quite an impressive number of the city . HOWEVER , for paying customers ( unless you 're willing to settle in Yamanashi for a while and become a resident ! ) rides wo n't restart on the test track until they near completion of this current upgrade - likely on weekends and during the summer holiday time in 2013 or later ( if it runs over schedule ) , according to <URL> . So short answer , unless you move there or join the government , you 're going to have to wait a couple of years . And now you 've got me considering a trip to Japan in 2013 ;)
In a word ( and a <URL> ) , no . As you 're probably aware , South and North Korea remain ( in theory anyway ) at a state of war and travel between the two is extremely restricted . In the past , there were organized tours from South Korea to <URL> and <URL> , but both have been indefinitely suspended since 2008 or so . Pyongyang has never been accessible to South Koreans . Japan has also banned all direct travel to North Korea for years , but the ban was lifted <URL> . However , it will be a while until anything like group tours for the general public ( as opposed to card-carrying Chongryon members etc ) start happening , and Japanese ability would most likely be required .
So basically , it 'll ultimately depend on the rental company , but there are certainly penalties . It 's also definitely possible , so do n't worry about that . For example , from <URL> : Drivers under 25 must have held their full license for at least 24 months prior to the date of pick up . The minimum age to rent a vehicle is 21 years ( maximum 75 ) . Drivers under 25 , i.e. drivers aged 21,22 , 23 or 24 are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day and drivers 70 or over are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day . All drivers under 25 and over 70 are liable for the first 1,200 Euro of damage to the car ( excess ) . The surcharge is paid when collecting the car and is not included in the quoted price . However , there are a few other terms on that page with regards to where you hold your current license , and whether you 'll need to supply an international driver 's license . But once you 've got that , you should be good to go .
I have looked into this in the past and it 's very disappointing how insecure this functionality is in general . The only specific additional security I could find was the Amadeus <URL> which states this : PNR Security Amadeus individual pnr security allows you to set up special security rules so that a pnr can be accessed by one or several other offices . The PNR security functions may allow access to a PNR even when there are no other special agreements in place and can override agreements that are contained in the current security tables . PNR security allows you to share PNR viewing and/or updating capabilities , without changing PNR accordingly . Creating a pnr security element The individual pnr security element is an un-numbered and can only be created by the responsible office . R = For read only access : it is possible to view the pnr , but no updates are allowed . In this case the agent is given an error message at the time any pnr update entry is attempted . B = For both read and write access : full pnr update is allowed , except for change of ownership . N = For no access : the office id specified can not retrieve this PNR via extended security agreements . ( This overrides EOS ) Office IDs can include wildcards . To enable this , it sounds like you 'd have to book via a trusted travel agent who could set these specific GDS parameters for your PNR .
Edit : on closer inspection ( thanks Krist van Besien for the seat61 link ) it seems that sadly , the only practical options really are coach with ID or Eurolines ( cheap , # 20 - # 50ish depending on advance booking , but 5hr + ) , or Eurostar . Train > Ferry > Train Many possible routes , here 's the fastest : High speed train from St Pancreas to Dover : <URL> , hourly ( plus other slower options ) P&amp;O Ferry foot passenger from Dover to Calais : <URL> , hourly ( other operators have 1:30 and 2hr ferries , not all allow foot passengers ) Train from Calais to Lille : <URL> , every half hour ( by road from <URL> ) So that 's 4 hours plus interchange time , costing around # 85 , Central London > Lille , prices seemingly not dependent on advance booking . Edit : The interchange times are horrible : the ferry operators have some savage policies that really slow this down . 45 minutes for foot passengers to check-in ( compared to just 30 minutes for vehicles ) , plus infrequent shuttle buses between ports and stations at both sides that do n't seem to match up with either the train or ferry timetables . <URL> at both Dover and Calais for UK to France train-ferry-train journeys , pushing the total to potentially 6 hours . Unless these policies change , sadly this option is more expensive , complicated and slow than a coach . There might be combined " train and ferry " deals out there that lower the overall price and help you find fast connections , but I could n't find any clear info . There are " rail and sail " tickets to Ireland and the Netherlands , but not to France . <URL> , but these seems to have been dropped - apparently for a while it was telephone-booking only , then even call centre staff stopped selling it . Train > Coach > Train Two fatal problems here : <URL> it does n't seem to be faster than ferry . They mostly take the coach by ferry anyway ( total 2 hours ish ) , and in the rare cases when they do n't ( which do n't stop anywhere in the UK except London except on the return journey ) , it takes about an hour and a half to get from Calais to Folkestone ( near Dover ) , so is barely faster . Despite driving through Dover and Folkestone/Canterbury , neither Eurolines nor ID 's online booking tools allow you to book from these towns . Seems they do n't stop there . They want you to get a coach from Dover to London , then another coach back to Dover on to Calais ...
I am not a lawyer , but from looking at the <URL> , as well as from my personal experience , it seems that the following should work : You are allowed to bring items with you for your personal use when you enter Canada from the outside . This includes , for example , a laptop , or jewelry . Thus , you should not even have to declare your ring ( I was wearing mine each time I entered Canada , never an issue ) . The ring for your ( future ? ) wife is a bit more tricky . However , if she stays 48 hours or more abroad with you before the two of you enter Canada , she has an exemption of <URL> on goods bought/received , which should cover her ring , if I understand your post correctly , and if you give the ring to her before you travel . She will need to declare the ring , and should ideally have a receipt . If you have had ( temporary ) residency status when you left Canada , this applies to you , as well , by the way . If she returns to Canada before you do , and she has stayed abroad for 7 days or more , she can declare the ring , anyway , and have you bring it to Canada on her behalf . If you fear that this approach may ruin the perfect moment to present the rings , do n't despair - you may want to propose ( or have her commit to a long-term relationship ) before leaving for Canada , anyway , and you can always ask her to hand back the ring so that you can make this " more romantic " , which will keep her on her toes for quite a while and allow for a beautiful surprise ( 10/10 , would do again ) .
Always , ALWAYS get a metered taxi . If the taxi driver says no meter , get a different one . Meters almost always run cheaper than the flat rate taxis . Also , know where you are going . I usually have my iPhone with GPS so I can watch where we are going in case the diver decides to circle the block a few times . Getting to know the major street names is also good advice . 15 minutes with a map and a marker and you can save yourself a ton of money . EDIT : You can ask the desk person at your hotel or hostel which cabs are reliable and trustworthy . EDIT 2 : Also , just a personal comment here . I 'm an expat . I 've been living in Taiwan for about 4 years now . I speak Mandarin reasonably well and can even yell some stuff in Taiwanese when the occasion calls for it . Yet , I still get scammed sometimes . Over a long enough timeline , it will happen ... but the goal is to mitigate the amount of times it happens and how much they get from you .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
You did n't specify a locale , but within the United States , the answer depends a bit on when and where you are picking the car up and when and where you are dropping it off . Shopping around The obvious first step is to search as broadly as possible and to be as flexible as possible . Compare rates at Kayak , VroomVroomVroom , and other comparison sites . Planning the trip Sometimes , the length of the trip factors into the calculation . A few years ago , I rented a car in Binghamton , NY and drove up to Watertown for a 3-day trip . I then needed to drive to Washington , DC and was quoted something exhorbitant for the 4-day , 1-way rental . After talking with the agent over the phone , however , I " returned " the car to Binghamton on the way down and made a second rental -- in fact , the identical vehicle ; I never even took out my bags . In other words , instead of a 4-day 1-way trip , it was a 3-day return and a 1-day 1-way trip , and that saved me almost a third . Yet I have also heard anecdotally of the reverse , where a 2-day 1-way gets a $ 300 surcharge and the 3-day 1-way does not . Enterprise and perhaps some other agencies only charge the one-way fee if the drop-off location is more than 500 miles from the pickup location . In still other cases , you may be exempt if renting from corporate-owned locations but not from franchises . You will need to do some research on your own whether the cost advantages of renting from a neighborhood location ( namely avoiding airport surcharges and taxes ) outweigh the disadvantage of paying the one-way charge . One-way specials The major rental agencies offer one-way deals as they try to redistribute cars around the country to meet demand . In particular , cars accumulate in warm-weather states in the winter , so in the springtime you 'll often find huge discounts if you pick up in Florida or Arizona and drop off in the Northeast or Midwest ( Hertz for several years has offered $ 5/day to take a compact from Arizona and drop it off in California , Colorado , or a few other states ) . Check the specials pages on their websites . Note that the deal usually applies to only certain types of vehicles and to certain locations , mostly airport locations in major cities . For Australia , Canada , New Zealand , and the US , try searching on auto relocation agency sites like iMoova and TransferCar for current offerings . Some agencies may not charge a one-way fee if the travel is between airport locations entirely within a few large states , such as California or Florida , where there is a healthy circulation of vehicles . You are less likely to find such deals from neighborhood locations or from smaller agencies , because they have smaller fleets with higher utilization and are thus less " liquid " with their cars . Fee-free rate codes Some contract rates or coupons waive the drop-off fee , as various organizations negotiate special rates on behalf of their sales staff or other traveling employees . You can find many lists of such rate and coupon codes on the Internet ; however , you may be asked to demonstrate that you qualify for the particular rate , and in some cases , you must present a physical coupon . Driveaways A driveaway is not a traditional rental car ; instead , you are transporting a car on behalf of its owner from one location to another . In essence , you are a delivery service . Companies like <URL> can help set you up with a car . As might be expected , however , there are significant differences from a traditional rental car . On the one hand , you may get a newer , cleaner , or fancier car , as well as save a lot of money . On the other hand , you will face a high deposit , time and mileage limits , and restrictions such as no eating , no nighttime driving , or no using the trunk . Finally , in some cases there is simply no possibility . I know of no agency that will be happy if you rent from Fairbanks , Alaska and return to Seattle , because there are so few cars that will be dropped off in Fairbanks . Specialty cars ( sports cars , convertibles , etc. ) also tend to be excluded from deals , because they do not circulate as freely and because their patrons are less price-sensitive . International rentals are also tricky . I know anecdotally that trying to rent a car in Western Europe and return it in Eastern Europe is a daunting prospect . Laws can trip you up ; for example , Canadians can not drive a U.S.-registered rental over the border due to import laws ( although they can rent a Canadian-registered vehicle in the U.S. and drive it cross-border ) .
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
Ada Parry of Woodygupildiyerr , the Cultural Education Coordinator for NTGPE - had a cultural Aboriginal immersion course offered in July of this year . 7 people were invited to come and stay with his family in her cultural home for 5 days . I 'd suggest that would be a great place to start - if the program was successful , Ada may well be running more , and may even be aware of other similar projects happening within Australia . <URL> .
The most usual case when the rental companies will upgrade your car to the next better class is when there are no cars of your class available , so if you rent from an off airport office you 're more likely to get a better car then when you rent from a larger office like the ones at major airports .
Buy the cheapest one-way ticket out of the country . Show this as proof of your onward travel . Then forget about it ; you do n't need to use it . For example , you can get Madrid to London for 15 euros on RyanAir.com . For 15 euros , you can have peace of mind . Better safe than sorry .
It 's not hard to identify flights which may fly over the Grand Canyon -- but finding out which ones definitely will , and whether or not you will have a view if you take one , are a different story . With some trial and error , you can find flights that pass over the area on any of the websites that offer flight tracking , like <URL> . Grand Canyon National Park is labeled on the " Aviation Sectional " map view , and its contours are visible on that view as well as the " Earth View . " Since FlightAware and similar services show the actual reported flight paths of aircraft , they are more reliable for discovery than , for example , tools like the <URL> , which rely on purely mathematical calculations . The <URL> shows aircraft currently reports in an area , though this will include many non-commercial flights . As there is a good amount of traffic through this area headed to and from Southern California or Phoenix , you can try plugging in city pairs like MSP-LAX , SLC-PHX , or SEA-TUS in the " <URL> " for some ideas . There is a great deal of variation in actual flight paths , however . Flight plans take into account the winds and the weather , and flights are subject to rerouting by the air traffic control system . Consider that on 25 September 2014 , <URL> passed straight over the eastern Grand Canyon , but today , <URL> flies well to the northwest , bypassing it entirely . Even if you had been on the 25 September flight , you might not have had much of a view . There could have been clouds ; or the plane might have been turning , banking your side of the plane towards the sky ; or you may have passed at an angle that showed only a vague gap on the horizon , and not any view into the canyon itself . But most importantly , of course , you 'd have been flying through the area after sunset . While approaches to airports are somewhat more predictable -- airports have certain prevailing wind patterns and certain preferred runways -- the path an aircraft will take over such a large area is much less certain . If you 're really excited about the idea of flying over the Grand Canyon , I suggest you look into booking an <URL> . Otherwise , enjoy the flight as best you can , and think of any Grand Canyon sightings as a nice bonus .
The problem is that flight paths change quite often depending on prevailing winds , air traffic and weather patterns . So there 's not always one exact flight path that you can rely on . However , if you want to see where a plane is at any given time and what path it took , I use <URL> , which is remarkably close visually to the air traffic radar screens we used to use when I did ATC software development .
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
end question
start question
What is this monument in Tallinn called ?
I believe that it is the <URL> . It was built to celebrate the successful war ( s ) of independence of the Baltic states and Poland in 1918-1920 . Or maybe you mean the Maarjamaae War Monument on <URL> . This was a World War II memorial . <URL>
<URL> lists two motorcycle rental locations in Myanmar together with a location map , although I 'm not sure if it 's accurate . <URL> offers scooters starting from approximately <URL> . <URL> offers scooters starting from approximately <URL> . A three year old <URL> on lonely planet claims that hiring motorcycles is illegal for tourists in Myanmar as does <URL> on Trip advisor . <URL> provides useful information on motorcycling in Myanmar and mentions that using motorbikes is only illegal in some areas : If you are after the freedom of the road , many parts of Myanmar are best explored by motorbike . Self drive car hire is not possible , so motorbikes offer you the chance to take long-distance trips on your own schedule , and allow you access to remote parts of Myanmar that often have rough roads . In most parts of the country motorbikes are simple and cheap to hire , usually costing around K10 ,000 per day . Most large - and medium-sized towns ( and all major tourist spots , other than Bagan ) offer motorbike hire ; it is usually simplest to ask at your hotel or guest house . Using motorbikes in Yangon is illegal ( some locals are granted a special permit ) . Using motorbikes in Bagan is not permitted for foreigners ( but e-bikes and bicycles are allowed ) . You might be advised to check into the legal situation and cofirm whether or not you will be insured in such a case .
I believe that it is the <URL> . It was built to celebrate the successful war ( s ) of independence of the Baltic states and Poland in 1918-1920 . Or maybe you mean the Maarjamaae War Monument on <URL> . This was a World War II memorial . <URL>
A <URL> is a ban of all aircraft taking off or landing at an airport . This could be due to a variety of reasons , but is primarily for safety - weather could be an issue ( e.g. thunderstorms ) , or there could be a security alert on the ground , or concern about something that may be on board a plane . It 's usually issued by the FAA , but could be issued by an individual airport as well . Flights already inbound may be directed to other cities to land there instead .
You have named some of the finest such buildings in the world . San Francisco has some attractive religious institutions to be sure , but nothing I would consider truly world class or on the same scale as a church that has been under construction for 134 years . That said , here are a few sights of interest though ( inspired partially by <URL> , which has some others worth considering ) . I would n't really count any as a must-see for a tourist , but if you 're interested in church architecture or want to visit one anyway , there are some good options . All these institutions have websites that list more detailed information , hours , scheduled services , contract details , etc. . . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Kjetil Ree It has been featured in movies and has a <URL> as well . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Chris06 This is an Episcopal Cathedral , so I 'm not sure if it is suitable for your religious needs , but it 's a stunning building . One fun feature are the labyrinths , which are built for meditative walks . Come by Cable Car if you want to arrive in style , or the 1-California bus if you do n't . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Jdlrobson Gothic-style Catholic church with a colorful and detailed <URL> . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Robert A. Estremo The namesake of the Mission District , this is n't quite as significant for the architecture but rather for the history : it is the oldest surviving structure in San Francisco and the site of the original Spanish Mission in San Francisco . It , along with the larger Basilica next door , continues to operate as a Catholic parish church . <URL> ( I could n't find a free image suitable for embedding . ) As you mentioned that you are Greek , it 's fitting to include this one , though I 've never visited . The <URL> looks quite striking . It is out on Brotherhood Way in the far Southwestern cover of the city , making it potentially a bit of a trip to reach depending on where you start . Modern Cathedrals <URL> Wikimedia Commons : David Leigh Ellis <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Skier Dude For something different , you could also consider one of the Bay Area 's modern cathedrals . <URL> ( Saint Mary of the Assumption ) may be mocked by some locals as the " washing machine church , " as it looks like an agitator from the sides ( it is , of course , a cross from above ) , but it is a noticeable structure for better or for worse . Across the bay in Oakland , <URL> is comparatively new and was the first cathedral built entirely in the 21st century , with lots of glass and natural light . The Gothic-revival <URL> is nice and dates back to 1851 . It is a far cry from the Sagrada Familia , but I mention it especially because it is quite convenient to Union Square , Muni Metro , and BART lines . Also note <URL> , part of the United Methodist Church , which is n't a whole lot to look at physically , but features an extraordinary gospel choir , plenty of spirit , a commitment to social justice , and prominent programs to feed and help the homeless ( and they can always use more volunteers ) . Some other architecturally significant buildings affiliated with some religion in San Francisco include : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( Buddhist ) , <URL> ( Buddhist ) , <URL> ( Hindu ) , <URL> ( Jewish ) , <URL> ( Jewish ) , and <URL> ( Jewish , modernist ) . I have surely omitted others from this list .
If you have a GSM phone ( with a SIM-card ) , <URL> is likely to work in many places ( see the list in the link ) . Note that it will work whether you 're roaming , or do n't have a SIM in the phone at all and the phone is locked . That 's basically the only number you 're guaranteed by the GSM standard to always be able to dial , and the mobile operators are required to redirect it to whatever it locally should be .
You can probably look at <URL> , which lists potential food and waterborne diseases like : food or waterborne diseases acquired through eating or drinking on the local economy : Hepatitis A - viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the liver ; spread through consumption of food or water contaminated with fecal matter , principally in areas of poor sanitation ; victims exhibit fever , jaundice , and diarrhea ; 15 % of victims will experience prolonged symptoms over 6-9 months ; vaccine available . Hepatitis E - water-borne viral disease that interferes with the functioning of the liver ; most commonly spread through fecal contamination of drinking water ; victims exhibit jaundice , fatigue , abdominal pain , and dark colored urine . Typhoid fever - bacterial disease spread through contact with food or water contaminated by fecal matter or sewage ; victims exhibit sustained high fevers ; left untreated , mortality rates can reach 20 % . What else could potentially be in the water might depend on the region and industry such as potentially pesticides or other chemicals .
The best strategy is to go as far away as possible from tourist areas to exchange money . Currency Exchange at the airport is generally the worst , followed money changers in tourist areas . Then start to look at money changers in London 's financial district , ie the City . Generally , they will be competing with other money changers and making their money on volume . Also , people in the City will know what the rate should be . You are also very unlikely to be ripped off . The City is also safer if you are carrying large amounts of cash . ( Not applicable to you , but in general it 's good to know ) . The really good deals are via Corporate money changing but you are unlikely to be able to setup an account unless you have a business . Look around at lunch time and see which money changers have a queue . These are the ones to go to . I tend to use www.cityforex.co.uk for this reason . In general , this guide can be used for other countries / cities .
The Heron Tower ( also known as the Salesforce Tower ) is the 3rd tallest building in Greater London with a roof height of 202m , and <URL> called <URL> . Entry to the bar is free , and open to the public . <URL>
18 hrs is doable . Go to Bhubaneswar to catch a flight to New Delhi . From Sambalpur there is train at 0635 hours to Bhubaneswar , takes around 4 hours and 30 minutes . Below is a list of them . It is a busy route , but you will be able to get a reservation easily . Go to <URL> and check the schedules or reserve a ticket . There are regular flights from Bhubaneswar to New Delhi , so flights will not be a problem . To check flights availability use <URL> or <URL> . Or if you do n't like trains , there are night buses which run very frequently from Sambalpur to Bhubaneswar . Check out <URL> . Else you can also go down to the bus station or to any of the agents selling bus tickets , but take a local with you who knows the language ( it is a very distinct version of Oriya which they speak there ) . Hindi will be fine but if somebody knows the local language it will be much better . Or you will be fleeced mercilessly . Pay a little more and take the Volvo bus , if available , as the road might get a bit bumpy at some places but the major part is fine .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
There is no direct train from Warsaw to Riga or Tallinn . It is possible to do the journey by train , but it 's cumbersome . It takes two days and you would be traveling on local trains , mainly soviet-style <URL> . You have to travel from <URL> and then from <URL> , and finally from <URL> . Note that this route does not cross either Belarus or Russia . No visas are needed . The train network in the Baltic countries is sparse and hence train travel there is hardly practical . Prefer the bus . <URL> operates buses between the Baltic countries , and also between Vilnius and Warsaw . Within the countries there are good networks too . If you decide to take the train , note that the Eurail and Interrail passes are not valid in Lithuania , Latvia or Estonia . UPDATE ( 2013-11-11 ) At this time the trains between Warsaw and Vilnius are suspended due to construction works . Check <URL> to know the current situation .
TL ; DR - they are the days when government support payments are made . They 're in the calendar presumably for budgeting purposes . Pension Day The most common types of pension payments are age pensions - The Age Pension is designed to provide income support to older Australians who need it , while encouraging pensioners to maximise their overall incomes . The Age Pension is paid to people who meet age and residency requirements , subject to a means test . Pension rates are indexed to ensure they keep pace with Australian price and wage increases . <URL> ... and disability support pensions - Financial support for people who have a physical , intellectual , or psychiatric condition that stops them from working or who are permanently blind . <URL> Family Payment Day We provide a range of payments and services that help you look after your children 's education and health care , and any family issues that may come up along the way . <URL>
Actually , just found the <URL> . The article states that SASCO had signed an agreement to resume the Ferry service from Sakhalin to Hokkaido using " Пингвин-33 " as a ship . <URL>
The answer depends very much on where you go . Backpacking/interrailing is quite popular in Europe , and many hostels will be full . Depending on your budget , it 's probably possible to do as you describe , but at two costs : You will lose money . If hostels are booked out you might be forced to book into a more expensive hotel ( perhaps even a business hotel ) . You will lose time . It might be a while before you have found a place for the night ...
The longest non-stop ( by <URL> source ) flight was Newark to Singapore on Singapore Airlines flight SQ21 which is and 18 hour 50 minute flight of some 15,345 km . However , as of November 2013 , Singapore Airlines has discontinued this route . However for single flight number , allowing stopover , things are hard to research . Not many websites list tables of distances by flight number . So I resorted to thinking of a route and then looking on the airline websites to see if it was one flight number or split over two flight numbers . I suspect the longest route that could be a single flight number and have a stopover would be Northern Europe to Australia . So I searched on several airlines for flights . I found a few contenders ( but no definitive answers ) : NZ1 and NZ38 , both on Air New Zealand fly London to Auckland with a stop in Hong Kong in 26 hours and 40 minutes . A distance of 18,463 km . QF320 on Qantas and BA15 on British Airways fly London to Sydney with a stopover in Singapore . They both take 22 hours and 50 minutes . QF1 on Qantas goes from Sydney to London , again stopping in Singapore and is 23 hours and 25 minutes .
According to <URL> ( in Dutch ) the <URL> , you 're required to have a warning triangle and a safety vest . While a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are only required for Belgian drivers , they still recommend taking them as well . Another <URL> says that local police does not always take into account that some rules do n't apply to cars registered in foreign countries . Legally speaking there is a difference between rules that apply to the car and rules that apply to the behavior of the driver . The requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are legally specified as rules that apply to the car , and therefore only apply to cars registered in Belgium . As for the warning triangle and safety vest , <URL> ( in Dutch ) , the Belgian law does not state that these are required to be present in a car , like the other two items , but instead specifies that when leaving the car in the middle of the road , you need to be wearing a safety vest . If you have an accident , you 're required to put out a safety triangle . So you 're not technically required to have these items in the car , but it would be difficult to follow the law otherwise . For the safety vest this was quite literally explained in a <URL> : La modification du Code de la Route ne s ' accompagne pas d'une adaptation de la réglementation technique des véhicules . En effet , si la veste réfléchissante était imposée comme équipement obligatoire du véhicule , seuls ceux immatriculés en Belgique seraient concernés . Il est donc plus logique d'introduire cette obligation sous la forme d'une règle de comportement même si l'utilisation de cette veste suppose nécessairement que le conducteur en dispose d'une dans son véhicule . Translated , this says : The modification of the highway code is not accompanied by an adaptation of the technical regulations for vehicles . Should the safety vest be imposed as an obligatory equipment of the vehicle , then this regulation would only apply to vehicles registered in Belgium . It therefore makes more sense to introduce this obligation as a rule of behavior , although the use of the safety vest necessarily implies that the driver has one in his vehicle . Edit : It has been pointed out to me that Belgian law does also have a rule for safety vests which applies to the car . This is the result of a <URL> . It was issued about 2 years after the above one , in 2009 . As they stand , there is now a behavioral rule which applies to anyone driving in Belgium , and a car equipment rule which applies to any car registered in Belgium . There is no accompanying text for the 2009 Royal Order which explains why the extra rule was introduced after all . I suspect the first one did not give enough legal basis to fine people for not having the safety vest in the car , as it only " implied " you needed to have one . As far as I know , the requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are ( still ) only specified as rules that apply to the car . However , in summary , rather than trying to argue the finer points of these legal distinctions with local police , I would recommend following the advice of the Royal Dutch Touring Club by simply taking all four items . It avoids the need for discussion , the possibility of fines , and they might be useful if you do have an accident .
Actually NYP = <URL> . Pine Hill along with Adirondack and New York Trailways operate under the same umbrella of New York Trailways , hence NYP ( New York Pine Hill ) .
Well <URL> , and found : <URL> Which has beds for US$ 1 per night . To quote : But , there 's a catch ... The $ 1 dorm beds are in a thatched-roof hut that is partially open to the elements . It appears that you do get a mattress , pillow , towel , and even a mosquito net , but that 's it . There 's also no proper locker system out there so you have to leave your valuables at reception when you are away . Nighttime average low temperatures are steady , ranging from 79F/26C in March to 68F/20C in January , and it 's always humid , so it might not be too comfortable on the warmest nights , but at least you 'll never be cold . Also , the dorm beds are right next to the kitchen , so you need to be prepared for some noise and smells while you are saving all that money . On the other hand , the Garden Village offers : So you really do get most of the normal benefits of staying at a hostel , even for this ridiculously low price . Want something better , Mr. Moneybags ? If you can afford US$ 6 per night you can get a " standard single " room of your own , ranging up to a " deluxe triple " room for US$ 13 . You ca n't book the $ 1 dorms online , but you can book all the other private rooms from their website . I 'm told you can reserve the $ 1 dorms by emailing them , so you wo n't have to just roll the dice and hope one is open . Lest you think the Garden Village is just trying to get people stuck in some remote place to sell them food and drinks , it is actually very well located , only a few blocks from Pub Street and the main tourist district of Siem Reap . Also , they have a good and cheap restaurant , plus 50-cent Angkor draft beers available all day at their sunset rooftop terrace .
There are probably two acceptable answers here : <URL> - an active volcano in Guatemala , it 's erupted 23 times since the Spanish conquest of Guatemala . It then erupted in 1965 and has been erupting basically continuously since then . <URL> - also in Guatemala ( which makes it easy for you ) , which appears on <URL> in the world . While currently the most activity is lahars ( mud flows ) there are also regular lava flows .
end question
start question
What are the travel options from Santiago de Veraguas to Bocas del Toro in Panama ?
It seem that there is but the only way to fly might be a chartered flight . <URL> which supposedly services the airport does n't seem to have any scheduled flights to or from Santiago de Veraguas . The only thing I was able to find are charter planes that are able to go to the airport . Which seems to be confirmed by a <URL> , which states that you can only charter a plane to fly into the Ruben Cantu Airport , the book also gives you some other options of getting to and from Santiago de Veraguas . So your best bet would be to take a bus or rent a car and go to Panama City and then take a flight to Bocas del Toro .
<URL> Non-Muslims are strictly prohibited from entering the city of Mecca . Road signs to guide non-Muslims are provided . The minimum penalty is deportation from the country . Documentation will be checked upon entry and anyone not showing proof of being Muslim will be refused entry . As a solitary exception , the Mecca bus terminal ( outside city limits ) is open to all . More : If you remain on the main highway , there is a police checkpoint just after the exit , where non-Muslims are kept out of the holy city . Actually this is decision of Allah and he stated in Quran : " Oh you who believe ! Truly the idolaters are unclean ; so let them not , after this year , approach the Sacred Mosque "
Consider one of the nearby hotels . Parking is available at all 3 terminals at Charles de Gaulle . Long term rates are 22 $ per day up to eight days and more expensive with a longer stay . This is presumably what you 've seen , and certainly for two weeks , that 'll hurt . If you are planning a longer stay it may be advisable to park at one of the nearby hotels who offer great deals on park and stay : these include the Hilton , Novotel , Ibis , Prestige , and Sofitel .
Except for a few special cases , a ticket to London Terminals is only valid until you reach your first of the London Terminals . It is almost never valid by tube . As explained on the <URL> Tickets issued for travel to/from London usually show ' London Terminals ' as the destination/origin rather than naming a specific station . This is because the ticket is valid to more than one London Terminal station provided it 's on any reasonable line of route . Tickets can only be used on National Rail services . For example , a ticket from Brighton to London Terminals is valid to Victoria , Waterloo ( changing at Clapham Junction ) , London Bridge , Blackfriars and City Thameslink or Charing Cross Waterloo East or Cannon Street ( changing at London Bridge ) . It would not be valid to , for example , London Euston or Paddington as this would not be on the line of route and would involve crossing London using another mode of transport . If you want to get from Reading ( or further west ) to London Bridge on a London Terminals ticket , going via Paddington is not allowed . To go Reading - Paddington - London Bridge , you need to buy a ticket to London Zone U1 , eg <URL> , which includes the onwards tube journey . Alternately , if you 're determined to get yourself to London Bridge on your current ticket ... You can route yourself on the Reading to Waterloo train , and change at either Clapham Junction , or ( post-August ) Waterloo + Waterloo East . Either way it 'll be a lot lot slower , but your <URL> via this slow route to London Bridge .
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
There are great many options along the various highways and byways in the US for lodging , though if you are looking for B&amp;B s you would have to check ahead because they are usually small and may be booked . When travelling on the interstates and other divided highways you would see signs like : This one is to indicate that at exit 14B there is a <URL> . Of course you could see a sign which will leave you wondering : But these are rare . Mostly along the roads you will find inexpensive chains like : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and a few others . Most of these are quite clean and safe to stay at though <URL> . One thing I would suggest is when you are travelling with kids is to actually plan out your route . For example , last year I went to a <URL> region in the 2nd week of July and there was no hotels/motels/B &amp; Bs to be had ( except for obscene amounts of money ) because of the local festival so check for those first and if possible make reservations ahead of time .
The end of most major bus lines from Santiago is in Puerto Montt , from there people usually take the <URL> ferry to go further south , for example to Puerto Natales where there is another road . This is not a short ferry , more a cruise ship and takes four days . The other option is to go to Chiloé island which is south-west of Puerto Montt , There are several buses a day ( <URL> ) to Quellon , the southernmost city on Chiloe . Again there is a ferry involved to get to the island , but the ferry ride is much shorter and I think you stay on the bus .
It seem that there is but the only way to fly might be a chartered flight . <URL> which supposedly services the airport does n't seem to have any scheduled flights to or from Santiago de Veraguas . The only thing I was able to find are charter planes that are able to go to the airport . Which seems to be confirmed by a <URL> , which states that you can only charter a plane to fly into the Ruben Cantu Airport , the book also gives you some other options of getting to and from Santiago de Veraguas . So your best bet would be to take a bus or rent a car and go to Panama City and then take a flight to Bocas del Toro .
Since I got an answer to my inquiry to eurail/interrail and it is too long to post in a comment I will put it here as an answer : Thank you for your email to Eurail.Com Customer Service . Yes , as a rail passenger , you are entitled to several rights according to the European Union Law . You can find more information on the page of the European Commission : <URL> You can also find the European Union regulations on : <URL> Since the Eurail Pass entitles you to use the train in Europe , you are of course protected by the EU law when you will be traveling with your Eurail Pass . I believe this boils down to the same regulations and rules that was stated in the original question , but I did not have time to go through it all to make sure . However I do find the links provided by the eurail/interrail customer service to be a lot easier to read than the actual regulation texts , which is why I have posted them here . Also note that the first link also has maritime and air travel rights information .
It is possible to do a few sightseeing during that amount of time . Qutub Minar is the nearest attraction from Delhi Airport ( opening hours 7AM -- 5PM ) . You can reach there in a 50-60 minutes cab ride ( there is no direct Metro line ) . You can also also visit India Gate . Along with India Gate you can cover Parliament House , Rashtrapati Bhavan , and Connaught Place . Easiest way to reach this places will be to take <URL> ( On the Airport Express line to New Delhi Station , then on Yellow line to Central Secretariat station ) . I would suggest you start your sightseeing in Connaught Place ( reach by metro at Rajiv Chowk station , two station before Central Secretariat ) , then take a cab/auto to India Gate ( Parliament House and Rashtrapati Bhavan are near to India Gate ) , then take Metro to Qutub Minar ( Qutub Minar Station at Yellow line ) , then take a cab ride back to Airport .
There 's really only one choice : the Karakorum Highway . Regular buses travel between last Pakistani town on the highway , Sust , and Kashgar . The only caveat is that the highway is subject to closure during the cold season , so it is best to arrange for travel before November . Sust is not a particularly nice place , so if possible try and get tickets before showing up there . If you have to wait a few days before the bus goes , however , just head back down the highway to Passu or Karimabad , which are very nice . Getting to Sust is easy since the Karakorum plunges down through the mountains to the Punjab , where Rawalpindi and Islamabad are located , so you can start your journey from there by tavelling to Gilgit , which is the largest town in the Northern Areas and a transportation hub . If you are in the Hunza , you 'll also want to make for Gilgit , unless you can find transportation directly to Karimabad . Wherever you find yourself on the highway , there are lots of buses ( further south ) and minibuses ( further north ) travelling in both directions . Pre-earthquake , it was possible ( if technically forbidden ) to enter Azad Kashmir and visit Muzaffarabad , but this is strictly optional . A note about the bus between Sust and Kashgar : it 's a two-day ride and you 'll be put in a hotel ( likely unheated ) for a night in Tashkurgan after passing through Chinese customs . The hotel price should be included in the bus ticket , but you might want to double check that . There 's also a " park fee " you have to pay to travel through the last bit of Pakistan . It 's very modest .
I do like to push them - once again , if you 're really stuck and do n't know where to look , consider <URL> . I 'm not affiliated , although I do compete on there as one of their ' experts ' . Basically they have a bunch of ' experts ' that compete to find you the best price . With what may work best as an open-jawed flight or a double-return ( Japan - > Mexico return , Mexico - > Venezuela return ) will be investigated by people on there . It 's not a free service , but if you do want to use it , check out my profile on here for a discount link . Alternatively sites like <URL> and <URL> are a good start if you want to do all the grunt work yourself .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
There will be absolutely no change for you . No change in visa requirements . No change in anything . Firstly , post-referendum the UK government need to work out terms of the exit . Based on prior examples , this could take forever ! Then , <URL> . The Treaties shall cease to apply to the State in question from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement or , failing that , two years after the notification referred to in paragraph 2 , unless the European Council , in agreement with the Member State concerned , unanimously decides to extend this period . O.m. Is slightly misguided - there is no way to immediately do this .
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
All local tickets work on both trains/metro and buses . There is an Oyster-like contactless card called Rejsekort , which gives fares about half of those of discrete tickets . Unfortunately it 's not terribly convenient for visitors . The transport agencies are pushing hard to get everyone to use name-registered cards ( which require ordering in advance and having the card mailed to a Danish postal address ) . There are anonymous cards available , but they are quite expensive ( a 80 DKK issuing fee plus a minimum balance of 70 DKK ) and are only sold from selected ticket offices . There are vending machines that issue anonymous cards at the airport , at the central station , and at all metro stations . Leftover balances ( including the 70 DKK minimum balance ) can be refunded at very few places . Within Copenhagen the only opportunities seem to be the airport , at the main ticket counter at the central station , and at Valby station . To use the Rejsekort , touch in and out at the card readers in buses or at platforms , recognizable by a glowing blue disk . The card readers marked " check ind " is for touching in , and those marked " check ud " are for touching out . Touching out is optional if you 're continuing directly to a different train/bus where you touch in again , but if you leave the system without touching out , a penalty fare will be deducted . If you 're used to Oyster , note in particular that you must touch out when leaving a bus at the end of your journey ! For short visits , two types of 24-hour tickets exist , and can be bought from vending machines . City Pass ( 90 DKK for 24 hours ) is valid in fare zones 1 through 4 , which means a distance of roughly 5-6 kilometers from the city center plus the entire island of Amager ( so you can get to the airport ) . This also exists in a 72-hour variant for 200 DKK . A plain 24-hour ticket ( 130 DKK ) is valid in the entire Capital Region plus the old Roskilde County -- that is , up to distances of about 50 kilometers from Copenhagen ( except Sweden ) or everything to the north and east of the cities of Roskilde and Køge . Then there are 7-day " FlexCard " period tickets which can be good value if you travel a lot during a one-week visit . The downside is that you need to know in advance exactly which fare zones you need it to be valid , and figuring that out is probably not worth it for most visitors-for-pleasure .
You have several possibilities for a picnic on a normal day ( as <URL> mentions , the white picnic is worth the trip as well ) . The first one is where everyone goes , particularly tourists - namely around the Grand Canal . I would not say that you need to " reserve " your spot but some places get crowded . A picture I took in May , on a Sunday , from the left bank of the canal , where the Allée des Matelots meets the Grand Canal ( showing the " crowded areas " above ) : There is another place , where locals tend to picnic ( more than tourists ) ; This is also a typical place for children birthdays , starting from May I would not recommend any of the boulangeries - they are great for bread but will be horribly overpriced for a picnic . Better bring in stuff yourself , there are supermarkets nearby ( the closest will probably be <URL> or <URL> which is not that far either ) . There are others too but I know that side of the gardens better :) You can now drive into the Versailles Gardens ( $ $ ) , which can be practical if you need to carry a picnic for 27 people . UPDATE as promised You have a few places where you need to pay in the Versailles castle : the castle itself ( with long waiting lines ) the gardens right in front of the castle ( on the other side ) . You can access them either from the side of the castle , or from the other side ( there are two ticket booths on the path from the Grand Canal to the gardens ) . BTW access if free during winter times . the Hameau de la Reine , a little village built for Marie-Antoinette , worth the walk . the Trianons ( small castles ) You probably can bundle some of these , I do not know because when I was actually visiting Versailles all of this was free and now I walk or ride on the free part :) A rough map of the pay vs free areas ( I missed the Trianon in the pay area ) . The line in blue are the roads where you can drive . If you had to make a hard choice I would go for the Hameau de la Reine which is unusual . Still , the castle is nice , the gardens are nice too . It really depends on the time you have . You can also rent bikes at the entrances of the garden . There are light and sound concerts in the evenings during spring , summmer and automn - I do not know if they are nice , at least the sound and the fireworks are OK ( seen from the outside ) All in all Versailles is a fantastic city .
Well this question can never be answered in its entirety because that is the very nature of tricks , you keep discovering them and using them till the time they exist , many tricks that existed in the past have all been either plugged or has been made illegal , however some of the tricks still live on and new ones are being discovered all the time . For the sake of completion and for proper explanation I will include the tricks that you have touched upon too . QUOTAS ( <URL> ) a. Special Category Traveller Quotas If you are a Senior Citizen ( the definition of which is different for Male and Female Passengers ) then there is something called Lower Berth Quota which is a set of lower berth seats reserved for Senior citizens travelling alone , when you normally book a ticket this will not be shown and will be visible only at the final booking screen so this qualifies as as trick . There is also a ladies quota in trains and though this is not very common in all trains / classes and station pairs , these quotas can also become handy , physically handicapped , defense , foreign tourist , Yuva are all quotas that you can use to book using these techniques , if there is such a reservation in the said train and you are eligible to claim these quotas as per your circumstances . b. Station Quotas - Prior to introduction of computers and network to reserve tickets , Indian railway tickets were booked by alloting a quota for each station and even though this practice has largely been discontinued with almost all stations booking tickets having their own PRS ( Passenger Reservation System ) terminals , there are still very few of these existing , so if you are using a train which passes through one of these stations , you could go to one of these stations and purchase the reservation ticket offline . I am unable to quote examples as each of these are very local and the area I live in is fairly fully connected to the central PRS network , the Quota codes Road Side , Out Station being still used is proof to the fact that these do exist . c. Headquarters Quota In each train , Indian Railways reserve a few seats to be allowed to travel at short notice ( this is a very old practice being continued to date even after introduction of Tatkal ) . The way this works is complex and is completely a discrenationary power of the Commercial Manager at the divisional headquarters of the originating station of you train , there are typically about 3-5 % of the berths reserved under this category and you can apply with a specific reason for an emergency travel and the officer may , at his discretion allow you to travel . Tatkal , Premium Tatkal and Fully Premium Trains Even though you have mentioned tatkal in your list of known options I am also trying to highlight Premium Tatkal and Fully Premium trains which use an airline-like logic to increase prices for tickets which keep increasing with each additional ticket being booked , in such a case you can always pay more and get a confirmed ticket in most cases Booking Many tickets This does not probably qualify as a proper trick as everyone does it but just in case , if you are not sure of the travel date , in an airline you may hold the booking till the last moment , but since Indian Railway cancellation charges are so low , if you are unsure of the dates , book a ticket for the entire week and cancel whatever is not necessary once you have a confirmation of the date . Change of Names Indian Railways allows change of names of passengers in some special circumstances so if you are unsure of who in the family may travel or you are a government official and you are not sure which officer may travel , you can book a ticket in one person 's name and then transfer it later to the actual person travelling . Alternate Routes This may not be practical always and is not a trick specific to Indian Railways , but travelling by a completely different route may be a practical thing to search . I will use a picture to explain this . <URL> In the picture above if you are looking for a travel from Chennai to Thiruvananthapuram you may not even consider a train going through Tamilnadu ( as shown in Option B ) as an alternative when booking tickets . The fact that the distance between the Original Destination and the destination in the second option is just 70 kilometers can become useful if you consider this as a valid alternative . Though these may all sound very difficult to be practical with the traditional tools and websites available , a tool like <URL> ( I am quoting this website in many of my answers so a disclaimer that I am in no way related to them may be essential ) can make these things very very easy . The maps that i have created for the picture used is also from that site . They show quota availability , maps , special trains even information like general delay in specific trains , fare etc. .
Yes , it 's only relevant in the US , although in the EU the equivalent ( more or less ) rule is EU Regulation 261/2004 . Technically it no longer exists . From the <URL> : The term " Rule 240 " refers to a rule that existed before airline deregulation . There is no longer an actual Rule 240 . The term , as it is now used , refers to each airline ´ s " conditions of carriage " policy . You would need to contact the airlines to obtain this . And then there 's also a relevant <URL> : Federal Aviation Administration Rule 240 mandated that an airline with a delayed or canceled flight had to transfer passengers to another carrier if the second carrier could get passengers to the destination more quickly than the original airline . The original rule , referring to a federal requirement before airline deregulation in 1978 , is long-obsolete ; however , the major US airlines have filed " conditions of carriage " with the U.S. Department of Transportation guaranteeing their similar provisions . These provisions vary from airline to airline , and generally apply only to delays that are absolutely the airline 's fault , such as mechanical delays , and not to " force majeure " events such as weather , strikes , or " acts of God " .
end question
start question
Is there an up-to-date map of street art in London ?
While it 's not a map , why do n't you consider a tour such as <URL> ( no affiliation , a quick google search will give more results ) . I 've taken a similar tour in NYC and was quite pleased . As a bonus over a map you get some background info on artists and tools , typically the guide is an artist that can point out more locations to you .
Euston Station itself also has free wifi , but power points are tricky and it is super busy/noisy . I would highly recommend the <URL> which is just down the road ( see the website for a map &amp; opening times ) . It has everything you need - free wifi ( you will need to sign up ) , powerpoints , toilets , coffee shops . There are even a few exhibits if you want to take a break and stretch your legs . Just go in , find a seat on one of the many floors , turn on your wifi and log in to the library ( BL visitor from what I remember ) and follow the instructions . There is a little more info on the website , or when you arrive there is a huge information desk ( you really ca n't miss it ) .
There are three common situations : The country you are departing has outbound passport control Once you cross the line you have officially left the country as far as immigration is concerned . You must pass through immigration to exit this area back to the public spaces . In some cases , like Vancouver , it 's not really " passport control " . It 's just a guy who checks your boarding pass and tells you that you can not return this way ( he has no authority other than calling someone else who does ) . But it 's effectively the same thing . Canadian immigration gets passenger lists from the airlines and does n't bother you on the way out . The country you are traveling to has remote pre-clearance . The USA does this from Canada and Shannon , Ireland . Once you cross the line you have officially departed the current country and entered the destination country as far as immigration is concerned . You may travel directly to your destination , usually without any further interactions of any kind with immigration or airport security ( rather dependent on the gate arrangements at transfer airports ) . The country you are departing does not have outbound passport control Or at least not at this departure point . You mix with other international and domestic travelers and board your departing vessel . You are considered to have departed when you pass the boarding gate . Note the repeated use of " as far as immigration is concerned " and " considered to have departed " . The departure lounge is not an embassy , it is still the sovereign soil of the departure country and if the local police want you for anything they will just walk in and grab you . If the American pre-clearance staff object they will be bluntly told to shut up and get out of the way or get arrested themselves for obstruction ( pre-clearance staff are not diplomats ) . In all the above cases , once you are " considered to have departed " you have met any immigration limits you may have . If you do this one minute before midnight on the day your visa expires you will not be considered to be overstaying . If your flight/ship/bus / train is cancelled you will usually get a short-term readmission as you did " leave " and the fact that you are still here is beyond your control . if immigration really wants you to leave you might even get a free hotel room for the night . Flights in the Schengen zone are considered to be domestic flights - there is no passport control . Tax easements ( duty-free shopping ) have more to do with your intentions than position within the airport . I 've been to airports where the duty-free shops are in the public spaces . You show your boarding pass , buy what you want , and it 's delivered to your departure gate ( which also nicely bypasses security ) . If you do n't have a suitable boarding pass you simply pay the tax-in price . If the airport construction allows it ( Heathrow for example ) transiting passengers remain in the international area and have no interactions with immigration . This is purely a convenience and cost-saving measure . If you are wanted by the police for something serious they can and will arrest you in the international concourse . If , in this example , the UK does not wish to admit you for any reason you are fine here as you do not officially enter the UK . Passengers transiting between airports ( Heathrow - > Gatwick happens a lot ) DO require admission to the UK , which is occasionally denied . This means you go back to your departure point rather than your destination . Legal rights of the departure country extend up to the time the airplane 's wheels leave the ground ( not sure about ships ) . If you punch out the cabin crew while taxiing to the runway , the local police will be called . Do it after takeoff and it 's really the pilot 's choice to return and land or fly to the destination - legal authority passes to the air carrier 's country of registration after takeoff but the pilot can choose to accept the local authorities rather than carry a problem for 10 hours . If the departure country 's authorities decide they want to invite you in for tea and biscuits after takeoff , they can request that the airplane return or land at another airport in the same country . If the pilot refuses they either let you go or shoot the plane down .
<URL> has a great map making feature . <URL> or <URL> could also be good tools for creating a map . Google Earth in particular now supports " <URL> " that you can record to show an animated path , even with narration and photos .
He can stay until September . The visa expiration date is the date by which one must enter the US . See , for example , <URL> . In particular : Admission to the United States and your Duration of Stay Upon arriving at a port of entry , the CBP official will determine the length of your visit . On the admission stamp or paper Form I-94 , the U.S. immigration inspector records either an admitted-until date or " D/S " ( duration of status ) . If your admission stamp or paper Form I-94 contains a specific date , then that is the date by which you must leave the United State . If you have D/S on your admission stamp or paper Form I-94 , you may remain in the United States as long as you continue your course of studies , remain in your exchange program , or qualifying employment . The admitted-until date or D/S notation , shown on your admission stamp or paper Form I-94 is the official record of your authorized length of stay in the United States . You can not use the visa expiration date in determining or referring to your permitted length of stay in the United States . Note the last two sentences : " The admitted-until date ... shown on your admission stamp ... is the official record of your authorized length of stay in the United States . You can not use the visa expiration date in determining . . your permitted length of stay in the United States . Reading between the lines , you may conclude that this is designed to stop people who have , for example , a 10-year visitor visa from claiming that they are authorized to stay in the US for 10 years . But it is equally true in your father 's case , where the admitted-until date is later than the visa expiration date .
The area you have described as the ' city center ' with bars and clubs is typically referred to by Londoners as the " West End " ... The West End of London ( more commonly referred to as simply the West End ) is an area of Central London containing many of the city 's major tourist attractions , shops , businesses , government buildings and entertainment venues ( including the commercial West End theatres ) . Source : <URL> The " West End " is an informal term and does not have strict boundaries . Hotels will always have a postal code . If you are booking a hotel , you can examine the hotel 's postal code to see if it is inside the " West End " or immediately adjacent to it . Postal codes start with the Post Code Area , which is the first one or two letters followed by a number , which signifies the district . Combining the area and district will tell you where it is relative to the ' city center ' . In your case , a postal codes starting with WC or W1 ( City of Westminster ) would be directly inside the West End . Examples are W1G ( Marylebone ) and W1F ( Soho ) and W1K ( Mayfair ) . Covent Garden and the ' theatre district ' is in WC2 . <URL> Lots of visitors like to book in the Paddington district and there are countless small B&amp;B 's and tourist hotels to cater to visitors . Establishments in Paddington would have postal codes starting with W2 . See <URL> Areas immediately adjacent to the West End would have postal areas/districts like W2 ( Paddington ) , SW1 ( Belgravia ) , and to the north , NW1 , NW8 , and so on . As you get further out , the district numbers will generally increase although not always . You 'll need to refer to a map for districts greater than 1 . NOTE : the ' City of London ' itself uses post codes starting with EC . This is the financial district and does not have the night life commonly associated with ' London ' . There is an interactive postal code map at <URL> Also see <URL>
Since there is only eight hours of daylight in London in January I would suggest you take the afternoon class . If you take the morning class then most of the daylight hours will taken up studying inside . It is probably safer and more enjoyable to wander around an unfamiliar city during daylight . For typical sunrise / sunset hourse see : <URL>
The earlier accepted answer by JonathanReez was written in 2014 . From December 2015 , <URL> .
Sometimes a tourist in London may be interested in seeing a film which has been released in the UK , but will not be released in their own country until some point in the future . Alternatively , a business traveller may be ' stuck ' in London for the weekend and may opt to spend part of their weekend catching up on the latest films . In both of these cases , the traveller would want to consult an authoritative and reliable source that listed what films are showing and their screening times . London has an entertainment district centered around <URL> ; it is roughly analogous to Times Square in NYC in that lots of movie theatres are clustered together within a few hundred yards of each other . Leicester Square is the centre of London 's cinema land , and one of the signs marking the Square bears the legend " Theatreland " . It is claimed that the Square contains the cinema with the largest screen and the cinema with the most seats ( over 1,600 ) . The square is the prime location in London for world leading film premières and co-hosts the London Film Festival each year . <URL> Similar to Grauman 's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood , the square was surrounded by floor mounted plaques with film stars ' names and cast handprints . During the 2010-2012 refurbishment , nearly all of the plaques were removed except for a few on the Vue West End cinema doorsteps . Source : <URL> If a given film is in the theatrical release stage , it 's likely to be at one of the theatres there . While each of the theatres operates their own site , a popular strategy is to visit the square on foot and walk around between the hours of 1300 and 2100 . The blockbuster films show on multiple screens and screening times are spaced about an hour apart . For people wanting to access the exact showing times whilst simultaneously reading the reviews , a Londoner would invariably refer you to <URL> . It 's usage as a canonical reference point for London entertainment predates the internet . The film listings are not restricted to the <URL> , but cover the whole of Greater London . The site will accept a search on " Leicester Square " and present all of their listings in that area . As mentioned in the comments to your question , there is also <URL> which ( apparently ) can accept a US ZIP code and/or a UK post code . VUE has the franchises at two of the largest shopping malls in the London suburbs : <URL> and <URL> . They also hold the franchise at what is arguably South East England 's ' showcase mall ' , <URL> , which has destinational status in its own right ( trains depart from St Pancras ) . Finally , if you wanted to attend a ' star-studded ' <URL> , possibly attended by the <URL> , there are specialist <URL> who can arrange this for you . Disclaimer : I have no relationship with any of the commercial links given in this answer . Please also read <URL>
Hippietrail suggested making this a full answer , so here you go : For dengue , the answer is emphatically no . There are four strains of dengue fever , and while getting one of them confers life-long immunity to that strain , each successive infection with dengue of a different strain carries with it a considerably higher risk of either dengue haemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome . You really , really do n't want either one . This , incidentally , is why you wo n't be seeing a vaccine for dengue fever for quite some time - researchers are justifiably concerned that unless they can confer 100 % immunity for all four strains , the vaccine will actually increase the risk for severe disease . For malaria , its something of a harder question based on a number of different factors , but its not something I would ever count on over malaria prophylaxis , even if you were staying very long term .
Yes , there is a code for the Bay Area : QSF , which covers SFO , OAK and SJC . These are called " Metropolitan area airport codes " , and <URL> . However , there 's an important caveat : unlike " NYC " , this particular code is not actually an IATA code , it 's just convenient shorthand for some airline booking systems ( GDS ) . " QSF " will thus work on Sabre and ITA , but not other systems , where " QSF " may also be an obscure airport in Algeria . Wikipedia has a ( partial ) list of bona fide <URL> .
Right now , driving time on google maps ( taking traffic into account is 44 minutes ) . Plus time to get out to the taxi rank , get a taxi and all that , say 50 minutes . However you 're hitting the mid-morning traffic , which is awful in London . When you get into Paddington , check the tube boards and see what 's running . If the Jubilee is running , then do as you 've suggested and take the Bakerloo and switch to Jubilee . Switch at Baker St , and take the Jubilee right through to Canning Town . From there you can take the DLR direct to the airport . I still would n't trust the cabs . If the Jubilee line is down , take the District line to Notting Hill , switch to Central , and head down to Bank . Then change to DLR and that 'll also take you directly to the airport . If you 're really lucky as you 're going down the stairs into the tube at Paddington , look at the departure boards and see if any are leaving in about a minute - that would give you an indication of a couple of minutes of time saving . Bear in mind you can reach the Bakerloo platform easily , but the District to Notting Hill requires a few stairs and is on the far side of the track , which could take time if you 're using a wheeled suitcase . Good luck ! Let us know if you make it .
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
Sesame Street is currently filmed at the <URL> in Queens , which does not offer public tours ( though the <URL> is open to the public and located on the campus ) . According to the <URL> , Sesame Street is not filmed in front of a live studio audience and the set is not able to accommodate guests . There is a Sesame Street theme park called <URL> in Langhorne , Pennsylvania , about midway between Philadelphia and New York ( near Trenton , New Jersey ) , owned and operated by Sea World . Now , that is only for the original American version of Sesame Street . There are many different versions internationally , and some of those filming locations may allow visitors .
Off season , there is AFAIK no public transport to or from Pula Airport at all . After all , there are only two flight movements per day : The late evening arrival from Zagreb and the early morning departure to Zagreb . It might be difficult to find comprehensive bus timetables in Croatia , since the same route is often operated by several companies , but buscroatia.com tries to do so and has an overview of all buses from <URL> . The first bus on Wednesday 18th is operated by <URL> and arrives in Pula 5:15 ( departure Rovinj 4:40 ) . Since Croatia Airlines requires you to check in at least 45 minutes before departure ( that is 5:15 if your flight leaves 6:00 ) , you will have no chance to get from the bus station in Pula to the airport in time .
What you are trying to do is " hidden city ticketing " and it 's forbidden by AA 's <URL> , so I would not expect them to make it easy for you to accomplish this . I would think that if you try to split the itinerary , they will compute the total fare for one-way trips EWR-PHL and PHL-PIT and then charge you for the difference above what you have already paid , perhaps in addition to a change fee of $ 100 - $ 200 if your original ticket was non-refundable . So this is even worse than just changing your itinerary to PHL-PIT .
How high is " high " ? Poking around on Ryanair , I can see fares of eg . 49 GBP all in for Stansted to Porto on July 13 , and it 's a 3-hour train ride from there to Lisbon . I do n't think there 's any way you can get there even nearly as cheaply by train alone , but if you want to try , Seat 61 lists out the options : <URL> Based on the prices there , it looks like London-Paris-Irun-Lisbon would set you back a minimum of 150 quid even with cheap advance fares .
Opaque flights , in the US at least , are far less common than opaque hotels - however they do still exist . The most common companies that do them are the same as for hotels - Pricelist ( " Name your own price flights " ) and Hotwire ( " Hot Rates " ) . Some other websites do them as well , including Expedia and Kayak , however they normally do n't have a separate interface for these , and only show them on occasion after you 've searched for a normal flight . Just like opaque hotels , there are disadvantages of opaque flights . Not only will you not know the airline you 'll be flight ( which could lead to extra fees like baggage fees depending on which airline you get ! ) , but you also wo n't know the exact time that you 'll depart or what cities you 'll connect in - instead you 'll be given a range of times ( eg , depart between midday and 2pm ) and a number of stops ( eg , 1 stop ) . You will also generally not earn frequently flyer miles/etc . There 's a good description of why these fares exist in the answer to <URL> .
<URL> lets you do this . Not your average hotel search engine like <URL> but plenty of options there .
Yes , a form of ID is still required , otherwise how would you prove that you 're an Indian citizen ? A Kiwi could rock up and say ' hi I 'm Indian , I do n't need a visa ' . However , it does n't need to be a passport . From the <URL> : Visa for Indian Nationals : Effective from 1st October 2000 an Indian citizen over the age of 10 years travelling between India and Nepal by air would have to keep in his possession any of the following documents to establish his/her identity as an Indian citizen . Valid Indian passport ; or , Photo identity card issued by the Government of India , or any State Government or Union Territory Administration in India , or the Election Commission of India ; or , Emergency certificate issued by the Embassy of India in Nepal .
end question
start question
Should I address customs/immigration in their language when I can ?
Unless you 're completely fluent , you risk a miscommunication in a legal context . If you 're at all uncertain about communicating to them , you should ask for a translator . In your case , if you 're confident , there 's no harm in addressing them , but if they address you first in your language ( I 'm presuming English ) , it 's best to stick with that rather than changing . Your goal should generally be to only speak when spoken to , and to keep the conversation to a minimum . It 's more efficient for them , and prevents confusion overall .
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
From <URL> : A family entering Australia can pool their individual allowances . For example : a family of 4 ( 2 adults and 2 children ) are entitled to bring in : 4.5 litres of alcoholic beverages ( 2 x adults alcohol allowance of 2.25 L = 4.5 L ) + 100 cigarettes ( 2 x adults tobacco allowance of 50 cigarettes = 100 ) + $ 2,700 worth of general goods ( including gifts , souvenirs , cameras , electronic equipment , leather goods , jewellery , watches and sporting goods ) ( 2 x adults general goods allowance + 2 x traveller under 18 years general goods allowance ) . ( edit ) So to be clearer - for alcohol and cigarettes , you can not allocate to the kids , but you can for other items with no age limits .
You should not have an issue finding a good hotel in Shanghai or Hong Kong . There are plenty of them in both cities and they are well advertised , especially to tourists . For you it would come down to prices . With early planning , you can easily find very good hotels for a fair price . Both of these two cities are very expensive but if you dont mind the pricing , go ahead and book whenever you arrive there .
The process of transferring from an international flight into the US to a domestic flight is largely the same , regardless of which US airport you go through . The first thing you 'll do is go through immigration . Last time I was in Dulles I had to stand in line for this for about 40 minutes . If your visa is in order , the actual process only takes a minute or two . If there is an issue with it , this can take quite some time . Twice I 've been sent to ' the office ' for follow up questions . It has never taken more than a half hour though . Once you clear immigration , you pick up your luggage . Typically , your luggage will be on the baggage carousel by the time you clear immigration . You will always need to claim your luggage at this point . Even if it was checked through to your final destination . You then proceed through customs with your luggage ( this is why you need to claim it , since you go through customs here , not at your final destination ) . If your luggage was checked through to your final destination , there is usually a baggage re-check soon after you clear customs . They are intended for travelers such as yourself so you do n't have to haul the luggage to your airline 's check-in counter and baggage drop area which is possibly in another terminal ( although in your case , you wont need to change terminals ) . If your luggage is not checked through to your final destination , proceed to your airline 's check-in counters . You can also do this even if your luggage was checked through and you missed the baggage re-check . You may also need to claim your boarding pass from your airline 's check-in counters . Once you 've dropped off your luggage and you have your boarding pass , proceed to your gate , passing through security . When you clear customs , you will be on the ground floor , check-in counters are two floors up . See <URL> for more details . If you already have your boarding pass and use the baggage re-check , then you can proceed through security immediately , follow signs " TO ALL GATES " . See also this page on <URL> . Overall , this process will take at least 1 hour , more likely 1,5 hours . 3.5 hours should be plenty unless there is an issue with your visa .
My best recommendation will be the bus . Your main concern is the fact that bus itineraries are not flexible enough . If you take the car to Whistler , then want to drive to the Rockies , your smoothest and fastest itinerary will take you through Vancouver too . A car is costly , and if you drive it one way you will have to drive it back . Last summer I did that ( with an even more customized trip ) and ended up driving the car back from Calgary to Vancouver with someone to share the ride on part of the way , it was a long 20-hour drive ( with a sleep break ) . I posted my ride share ad on kangaride.ca and found only a French guy to share the ride ( he had been to Eastern Canada , where kangaride/amigo express is popular ) . I posted it on hitchplanet.com ( which is a ride share website more for Western Canada ) too but got no one interested , nor on Craigslist . I did n't try but kijiji.ca is popular in Canada too . In Eastern Canada there are also some local facebook groups where people share their trips . And a final way to find ride shares is to post ads in hostels ( email them ahead of time , it might help ) . Here are your ride share website options . I would not count too much on them though , there are definitely fewer options than in Eastern Canada ( and way way fewer than in Europe ) . My experience in Eastern Canada vs France is that Eastern Canada has a many rides per day between big cities and about one per day to remote areas ; in France it is multiple per hour between big cities and multiple per day to remote areas . Western Canada seems to have one every couple days , even between Vancouver and Calgary . If you plan your trip early enough , you might want to post on travel websites for finding travel partners ( I can think of <URL> , it is a website for French people going on work and holiday visas , mostly to Eastern Canada and there are a lot of ads for shared trips ) . For the bus , you definitely have the perfect itinerary , you follow exactly the bus network . <URL> seems to definitely be a touristy route ( sure you will come back to Vancouver to go East but by car probably too ) . The " sea-to-sky " highway ( the road between Vancouver and Whistler ) is definitely one of the most gorgeous route I have travelled . I drove it and did not enjoy it enough ( winding a lot , I had to focus on the road ) and there are very few parkings to stop on the way . So I would recommend to take the bus on that portion and sit on the left of the bus on your way up to Whistler . The good thing is that the price for this route is fixed so you can book it just one day ahead if you do n't find a ride share . Then the Greyhound goes all the way from Vancouver to Calgary through Banff and Lake Louise . Lake Louise bus stop is several kilometres from the lake itself but definitely walkable in the morning to reach your trailhead . And Banff might be a little better with a car since it is a large town and trailheads are a bit out of town . Greyhound offers cheap advance fare ( more than 21 days before ) so these would be the tickets to book early on . The part where a car might be the best option is along the Ice fields parkway , linking Banff to Jasper . This is a national park and it offers gorgeous views from the side of the road or from the top of some 1-hour hikes from the road . You can still see many of these from <URL> and actually hike from Jasper . There are many trailheads from Jasper town ( but a much larger choice if you have a car there ) . Brewster ( the bus company ) also offers Ice fields parkway trips but they seem a bit overpriced . Hitch-hiking ( not on highways ) from Banff or Jasper to a trailhead or back is certainly easy . Oh and I almost forgot the train . The best views from the train are East of Jasper ( not on your route ) . And the westbound train from Jasper to Vancouver rides at night so you do n't see much anyway . If you do not want to spend too much money that 's not the best idea . The views between Lake Louise and Yoho park are more worth too . So here are all your options : the car for the flexibility but for a cost and you have to drive it back ( or pay an expensive one-way fee ) , or a mix of bus and ride shares ( most likely just bus ) for cheaper but with much less flexibility . Your turn to choose . On top of that , if you pick the car option , I would definitely recommend you to go a bit off the beaten paths , i.e. not stay in downtown hostels but the so-called " wilderness " ones , going to other parks on your way ( Garibaldi lake near Whistler , Kootenay , Yoho , ... ) and obviously offer to share your ride on websites . Note for the bus : on many buses , checks are performed prior to boarding and bear spray is forbidden ( even in checked bag ) . So if you need bear spray , buy it locally .
It 's a common problem I had in South America - I really wanted to improve my Spanish while travelling as it gives you a much better insight into your travels , and can talk to locals more . But so often they 'd just switch to English because they welcomed a chance to learn English themselves . You can either do the obvious ( ask them to speak French so you can learn ) or what I did occasionally - we 'd hold dual-language conversations - I 'd try speaking in Spanish and they 'd speak in English , as it gives you speaking practice - the hardest of the language skills , in my opinion . Alternatively , you can switch - you speak English , they speak Spanish , and you both get to practice listening skills in the language . Remember that travelling is a shared experience , they welcome visitors to their country ( well most of them do ) , and if you can both benefit from a conversation , everyone wins !
Always , ALWAYS get a metered taxi . If the taxi driver says no meter , get a different one . Meters almost always run cheaper than the flat rate taxis . Also , know where you are going . I usually have my iPhone with GPS so I can watch where we are going in case the diver decides to circle the block a few times . Getting to know the major street names is also good advice . 15 minutes with a map and a marker and you can save yourself a ton of money . EDIT : You can ask the desk person at your hotel or hostel which cabs are reliable and trustworthy . EDIT 2 : Also , just a personal comment here . I 'm an expat . I 've been living in Taiwan for about 4 years now . I speak Mandarin reasonably well and can even yell some stuff in Taiwanese when the occasion calls for it . Yet , I still get scammed sometimes . Over a long enough timeline , it will happen ... but the goal is to mitigate the amount of times it happens and how much they get from you .
No , Tokyo is not a disaster area during golden week . However , flights out of Tokyo may well be more expensive , crowded , or already sold out on the first weekend , and queues may be longer . Another factor is that on the national holidays , some ( not all ) stores will be closed down , as will be banks ( and that includes ATMs in most cases ) . Possibly also some museums or other attractions ( Tsukiji fish market is closed , I think ) . But most tourism-related things will be open , since golden week is also used by many Japanese people to visit Tokyo as tourists . All in all , the main reason not to choose plan B is the flight being unavailable or more expensive . If that 's not a problem , go for it .
An adult cicada will not shed its skin , rather a young nymph will shed it exoskeleton as it grows . Likely what you are talking about is the final shedding when the nymph emerges to become a winged adult cicada . I never knew cicada shells were popular in the USA ( they are in China ) as there are plenty of cicadas in the USA . You can bring a shell in * , as long as there are no body parts or debris left inside the shell . Agricultural agents are looking for any thing that might harbor eggs , larva or other insects . But that said , ultimately it is up to the agent inspecting your shell to allow it or destroy it . Being able to bring it in is not guaranteed , even if you meet all the rules . * Under 7 CFR 330.200 , " Biological specimens of plant pests , in preservative or dried , may be imported without further restriction under this part , but subject to inspection on arrival in the United States to confirm the nature of the material and freedom from risk of plant pest dissemination . "
If you are a foreigner then it is ok , you can show them or hide them no one will actually care . It is not something common there for middle easterners to have but people do not judge foreigners for having or showing them . Regarding Egypt in particular , it is common for criminals and people who been prisoned to have them , so that will be the first impression . The answer in that question was meant for a person who wants to blend in and look like Egyptian . But for a tourist it is totally fine to show them . I live in Saudi Arabia which is considered to be the most conservative country in the middle east and locals do not make tattoos at all but we totally accept foreigners with tattoos like they do not have it ...
It 's easy to get a ballpark worse-case estimate . If you count one page per trip ( one entry stamp and one exit stamp on the same page ) , 10 years of validity and 24 pages , that 's at least between 2 and 3 trips per year . In reality , you will manage more than that ( because stamps are small and border guards can put them on pages that have already been used ) but you might also need several pages for a single country ( e.g. if you need a visa -- but US citizens are lucky in this respect as they can visit many countries without one ) . My understanding is that the choice between 24 and 52 pages is at the discretion of the passport office . If that 's your very first passport and unless you just started a career that requires frequent travel abroad , you 're very unlikely to either get or need the 52-page variant .
There are many exchange places , both in airports and in city proper . Technically and officially they all are bank branches , but often it consists of an exchange office only . The airport exchange rates are not the best , though if you are not changing lots of money , probably the price difference will not be worth your time . You can withdraw rubles from ATMs ( and certainly you can pay by card , which is widely possible ; in fact , you will not need much cash ) , unless your bank prohibits this ; check with your bank in advance . Also find out the fees they could charge and the exchange rate they would apply ; you may find the exchange rate quite decent . ( Only beware that exchange rate changes daily or even hourly , so compare exchange rate of bank with current Moscow exchange rate . ) In fact , I do n't know about French card in Russia , but in opposite situation ( Russian card in Europe ) , I often find it to be the best rate to simply pay by card wherever possible , and withdraw from ATM if I need cash .
I used to tie the zips of my backpack together with my hair , thinking that if notice the loose hair being broken my luggage would have been tampered with . On one occasion the hair , binding one zipper was broken , so I went to customs to express that I suspect somebody went through my stuff . There was nothing wrong with my luggage , but the custom officer also told me that in case something was found in my luggage , I would still be a prime suspect even after I reported it . So having a lock might not be waterproof against tampering . The answer by a very knowledgeable travel.se contributor might provide a better alternative then a locked suitcase , that is <URL> .
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
The National Park Service has an arrangement where only a single company is granted an exclusive franchise to travel to or take guests to Alcatraz . Therefore , if you want to go to Alcatraz , there is only one company you can travel with , and private boats are forbidden . <URL> : Tickets for the Ferry to Alcatraz are available at the Alcatraz Cruises website , but they sell out fast so buy in advance . There are a few other websites when you search , but I ca n't vouch for any of them . What you could do to confirm is to call Alcatraz Cruises Box office : +1 415 981-7625 , or email them ( info@alcatrazcruises.com ) . However , even when I was in San Francisco last year , tickets were sold out online and it was n't possible to buy them in person on the day . However , that was Fleet Week , so your mileage may vary on a different week . I 'd drop them a line and see what your options are .
They are different . The reason people use the terms interchangeably is that at many border crossings ( especially at airports ) one set of people handle both . Customs is about the stuff you are bringing into the country . Is it allowed , should you pay duty , should it be confiscated and burned , etc. . By default , none of your stuff is allowed in , even if you 're a citizen returning home . Immigration is about a person who is visiting , immigrating , or returning home . By default visitors are ( technically ) turned away unless they have a good reason and meet other criteria ( for example visitors to Canada may be turned away if they have a criminal record ) and those who live here are let in . Immigrants are let in if the paperwork they 've done in advance is all correct . Both processes involve " who are you , where are you coming from , why are you coming here , why were you there " and so on . Both involve a uniformed person , your passport , and probably your baggage . For example if you say you are visiting for 3 days , but you have brought weeks worth of clothing - probably all you own - along with more permanent possessions like books , photo albums , and CDs , an immigration officer may suspect you are moving here . Customs officers may want to inspect your baggage for contraband , and your explanation for your visit may make the difference between being inspected or not . As a result they are considered a single process in most people 's minds . To add to the complication , many airlines wo n't let you board unless you convince them you will be let in at your destination , and some airports ( especially in Europe ) want to look at your passport and other immigration-related documentation several times before you get to the boarding gate . None of this counts as " clearing customs and immigration " but it may sure feel like it .
Although I 'd never presume to tell people what they should do , it would be quite common to tip for delivered housekeeping items such as a toothbrush , toothpaste , extra soap , extra pillow or whatever . The only thing I 'm ever likely to ask for is a toothbrush and/or toothpaste if I 've forgotten mine , and I often do n't have local currency on me . So , sometimes I have tipped and sometimes I have n't , but must say I feel a little guilty for the latter . For something like this , personally I 'd tip something like $ 2 unless I was asking for something extraordinary . What happens in some hotels is that they understand that this might be an issue and will bring up the items and hang over the door handle , knock and leave . If you rush after them you could tip them . Alternatively , ask at the front desk when you check in , especially for toothbrush and toothpaste kits . Often they have them behind the front desk and will give them to you without anyone feeling uncomforable giving/receiving a tip . If they have a shop in the hotel , it can be cheaper buying the item than getting it free .
I 'm in Istanbul right now , and when I got here I asked a friend who has been here before . According to her , no , it 's not required , but is always welcome . I have not got any noticeable negative reactions over the past week from not tipping , and very gracious thanks when I have done so , but I 'm still new to the country and may have trouble ' reading ' people if they are being polite when I have n't tipped . Usually it 's been when I have n't liked the service or felt it was already very overpriced for what was offered - not unusual in extremely touristy restaurants , for example , which you may want to avoid . Corrections welcome from native Turks , of course :) I just got a bill a minute ago for 18 lira for a coffee and two beers , and paid with a 20 lira note and no change . 2 lira = 1 dollar US/CA/AU - honestly , at that amount , it barely matters .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
end question
start question
Where to find out more about " ライダーハウス " / " riders ' houses " in Japan ?
Riders ' houses are super-budget dorms , often run on a non-commercial hobbyist or community-supported basis , and not uncommonly entirely free . As the name says , the primary audience is bikers , both motorized and pedal-powered , but anybody is welcome . However , as they 've often located in places that are hard to impossible to reach by public transport ( abandoned houses , former train stations on closed branch lines , spare rooms in large rural houses , etc ) , in practice it 's difficult to make use of them without your own wheels . The main difference between a riders ' house and a backpackers ' dormitory is that you have to bring your own sleeping gear , meaning a sleeping bag etc ( mattresses are usually provided ) . This is mostly for legal reasons , since otherwise they would be considered inns and the owners do n't want to deal with the resulting paperwork . Long stays at riders ' houses are also frowned upon and some go so far as to ban stays of over one night , so no , they 're generally not good bases for exploring an area . And yes , there is a directory of them , called <URL> ( pron . Hachi-no-su ) , in Japanese only . The name means " bees ' nest " , because for obscure reasons the nickname for bikers in Hokkaido is mitsubachi-zoku , the " honeybee tribe " . To this day you 'll find more riders ' houses in Hokkaido than the rest of the country combined , although the Hokkaido biker boom peaked in the late '90s and the numbers are trending down . Also note that since nobody in their right mind bikes in Hokkaido outside the short summer season , the vast majority are only open from June to September or so .
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
As you say , Monaco is part of Schengen Area , which means there are no internal border controls between Monaco and its only neighbour ( France ) . So you certainly do not need a visa . No one 's even going to look at your passport . Quoting <URL> : Monaco has an open border with France . Schengen laws are administered as if it were a part of France [ ... ] I 'm not sure about EHIC . But you have some sort of travel insurance from your home country , do n't you ? If you do , it very likely is valid in Monaco too . If you do n't ( and you travel ) , consider getting one . Edit : UK 's Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office has a <URL> that directly answers that part of your question ( emphasis mine ) : Monaco is not a Member of the European Union and therefore EU reciprocal medical arrangements do not apply . The European Health Insurance Card ( EHIC ) does not provide health cover in Monaco . It is essential that you have comprehensive travel and medical insurance cover . So do get a travel insurance . Other than that , there is nothing about going to Monaco you should especially worry about , even if you 'll technically be outside EU . Regarding your final question about getting to Monaco : it is easy and there are lots of options , as e.g. <URL> . For instance , you could take a train from Nice , Cannes , Menton ( France ) or Ventimiglia ( Italy ) . Or <URL> , which I can recommend : it takes a lovely seaside route and costs just 1 $ . ( If still in doubt , you should ask more specific questions about getting to Monaco from a given place ! )
I looked at <URL> 's English and Japanese-language web sites , but neither of them appears to have any weather alerts , nor even any section for weather information or cancellations . Your best bet for accurate information , then , is probably to call them ( 092-281-2315 ) . That said , based on the weather prediction , I expect you 're going to be cutting it very close . The Beetle does claim a <URL> and the ability to operate in <URL> , so I expect that they will operate right to those limits . I would n't expect the final decision to run or cancel your particular ferry to be made until the last minute , taking into account weather conditions at the time .
I found a decent ticket , 12 hours , direct from YVR to NRT , for $ 1200 CAD . Thinking I should snatch that up . $ 1,200 CAD should be considered a reasonable round-trip price from North America to Japan . Sometimes you see lower ( though rarely below $ 1000 ) , and sometimes much much higher . I would say that is around the average price these last few years , based on the flight price research I periodically do for myself or acquaintances making the trans-Pacific hop . I always hear different things . Early ? Late ? Certain time specific to the season ? You likely hear different things because there are very few universally applicable rules to flight-pricing , especially for trans-Pacific flights . Sometimes the best price is six months in advance , and sometimes it is a few weeks - it mostly all depends on that particular flight . I can say for sure that the most expensive time to fly to/from Japan is the New Year 's season , the first week of May ( Japan 's " Golden Week " ) , and the middle of August ( Japan 's " Obon " Festival of Lights ) . Scoring an average-price ticket during these times will be harder than most other times of the year . However , September is not an unusually busy season in Japan . 2 ) A friend may want to come with me by buying a ticket in 1 month from now . Does it sound like it should be OK ? I figure he probably ca n't get the seat beside me at that time , or maybe even the same plane One month in advance is pushing it a little bit , but it is not unheard of to find a reasonable ticket only one month in advance . I advise buying sooner if possible , and it is very unlikely that you 'll be on the same airplane ( or if you are , your friend would have to pay a lot of money ) .
The Health Assist Blog outlines ( quite comprehensively ) the fast food of various countries globally . Part 1 illustrates fast food that can be obtained in the following european countries : Denmark The Netherlands Austria Belgium Finland Poland Sweden Germany United Kingdom <URL> Part II illustrates Asian &amp; Australian fast foods : Australia China India Indonesia Japan Korea <URL> Part III illustrates South , Central American &amp; Mexican fast foods : Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Bolivia Costa Rica Panama Peru Venezuela Mexico <URL> Edit If you are in London ( UK ) this weekend 28th - 29th September 2013 you will be able to taste a variant of fast food because a festival of european street food , with food stalls from all over Europe will be hitting East London 's Dalston Yard . So you can go around sampling different european tasties , and ask the people of those countries selling them how typical or perhaps non typical they are of the that particular country ! If you want to sample some the finest that Europe has to offer , more information on this event can be seen : <URL> .
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
<URL> has information going back several years . Their level of coverage is generally excellent , although it can vary a little depending on the airline/location . You will need to create a free account in order to view data more than a few days old . Specifically for your flight they do n't have any specific information , only scheduled information that the flight was from Zurich ( ZRH ) to Amsterdam ( AMS ) , departing at 7:25 PM and arriving at 9:00 PM on an Embraer RJ170/190 . The lack of information could mean that there is a hole in their data , or it could mean that the flight did not fly for some reason ( ie , it was canceled ) . Checking that same flight for days before and after there is full information available .
From my friend 's experience , It is possible . However you should do arrangement with the hotel prior your arrival in the hotel .
I could n't find anything in Japan - my Japanese is n't that great , and search results are mainly about an apparently new fad called " water jump " , which seems to consist of riding a snowboard down a rather small ramp into a lake or pool . Here 's two event agencies offering two-day ski jumping lessons in Germany or Austria : <URL> <URL>
<URL> ! Enter in the ' from ' part , eg , LON ( London , any airport ) is what I used to put when I lived there . Delete the ' to ' part , leaving it blank . Select the dates you require , from and to . Click search . It will then display a list of countries by price . Select the country of choice , and it 'll show cities in that country , by price . This is often how I 'd pick my next trip in Europe :)
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
<URL> - all bus stations , times and schedules on one website . Also includes ferries . <URL> - timetables and listings of all ferries within Croatia , and to all the various islands as well . Trains in Croatia do usually NOT require reservations , except for IC Zagreb - Rijeka/Osijek/Cakovec , and ICN Zagreb to Split . The fees are about a Euro when made locally . The official site is <URL> , however it 's in the local language and may be difficult at first to navigate - however , you can jump straight to the <URL> .
You have four options , although you may need to wait for a couple of them ... <URL> houses permanent and temporary exhibits relating to sport and the Olympic movement . However it 's closed for renovations until the end of next year . <URL> in Hakon 's Hall in Lillehammer , was officially opened by King Harald V and Queen Sonja on November 27 , 1997 . It is the only museum in northern Europe that presents the entire history of the Olympic Games . <URL> used to be just a Sports Museum , but was moved to a new building in 2004 during the Olympic Games year in Athens , and was redesignated as the Olympic Museum . In 2014 , <URL> . Interactive exhibits will gather together London 2012 memories , show how the venues were built , and seek to inspire future generations .
" The Grotto " on the Bruce Peninsula ( Georgian Bay , Ontario , Canada ) could be a good choice . The water 's always cold ( though it can be plenty hot outside ) , but if you take appropriate precautions it should otherwise match your criteria . It 's pretty cool : You can actually swim through the hole in the bottom out into the bay . There are a lot of cool cliffs and trails in the area , it definitely makes for a good vacation . If you 're interested in more caves and more complex caves , this might not be the place , although there are a few other bayside caves I 've seen in the area and definitely more away from the water .
Google Maps now supports mass transit navigation in Berlin , so there 's no need to use external apps . <URL>
G Adventures provide a lot of South American tours . They also monitor any safety updates in that region for their travellers . Here 's a timeline of updates and safety info within the last few months : <URL>
I 'm assuming you 're talking about The Kyushu region ( including okinawa and the islands ) I recently returned from ishigaki ( an island in the Kyushu region ) . We did snorkelling and scuba out there . Most dive schools will not take Non Japanese newbies . As we do n't speak japanese we found an excellent english speaking dive school . If you 're looking to go Snorkelling through a dive school i 'd reccomend Dive school Umicoza . A Day 's Snorkelling will cost 8,400 yen . This includes : hotel pickup equipement rental boat cover Experienced Guides lunch photos of your dive Drop off at your Hotel I went in september and they had 2 english speaking guides ( one also spoke chinese , and french ) . We did Scuba and snorkelling with them and the marine life was spectacular on both . The guides were awesome and it was just an amazing day . Their website is here <URL> If you 'd just like to go to the dive site without going through a dive school ( i really do n't recommend this ) then here 's a link to it on google maps . <URL> The sea temperature will be fine in april as ishigaki 's sea temperature ranges from 21 ° C in winter to 29 ° C in summer Let me know if you have any more questions .
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
I found <URL> which , as the name implies , lists late trains in Sweden . The user interface should be fairly self-descriptive . You can specify destinations , time period ( what you are actually looking for ) and minimum late time . Not sure if you can export the data to perform statistical analysis ( if that 's what your thing ) , but there seems to be an <URL> in beta that spews out JSON . Documentation is in Swedish , though . Other possibilities are <URL> ( with an å in the domain name ) and <URL>
end question
start question
Are calls to international numbers charged at international rates if the caller is in the same country ?
The person calling you will be calling your Australian number , so they will be charged whatever they normally pay for a call to Australia . As you are roaming , you will be charged for receiving the call at whatever your roaming rate is . In most cases , the call itself will actually route via Australia and back to wherever you are ! It 's possible that if your phone is roaming onto the same network as the person that 's calling you is on that the call will route locally , but there 's no guarantee . The reverse case is very different . If you call a number in the country that you are in then you will normally pay a lower rate to make the call than it costs for you to receive a call , and the person you call will only pay their standard rate for an incoming call ( which is free is many/most countries ) . Obviously the exact costs will depend upon your provider and what they charge for calls whilst roaming , but in most cases it 'll be cheaper for you to call someone in-country than for them to call you . Depending on how long you 're going to be there , the best option is often to buy a pre-paid SIM in the country your visiting . You 'll get a local country number that people can call you on , and you wo n't pay high roaming costs for calls that you make .
Yes , there are facilities there . Core4Bag provides luggage storage services at the airport . Price depends on the size of the bag and how long you 're storing it there for . Here 's the link to the airport luggage services page , which lists them , along with their phone number : <URL> And here 's the link to the Core4Bag web site , which among other things , has pricing information and directions on how to find them in the airport : <URL> From their website : Baggage storage is located at Arrivals Hall next to Gate 1 . Operates 24 hours . All stored items are controlled by X - Ray and monitored by CCTV during all storage time . Here 's the direct link to the pricing table : <URL> - if you 're talking about an average cabin carry-on , it 's going to be either " small " or " medium " in their terminology , and will , respectively , cost $ 3.50 or $ 5.50 to store ( per bag ) for up to 6 hours . Note that their pricing table states that these prices are valid up to 31/12/2015 , so may change from January .
Flights on UIA ( PS ) from TBS land at terminal D. Flights on BA to LHR depart from terminal D. PS and BA do have an interlining agreement * , so it should be possible to buy this as a single ticket . As stated by Roman R , the airport provides <URL> information which shows only a security control for transferring passengers and a transfer desk to collect onward boarding passes . BA also provide a <URL> and in most cases it is possible to use a mobile boarding pass . Alternatively it may be possible to check in online and print the BA boarding pass in advance . * Although expertflyer says BA and PS have an e-ticket interlining agreement with each other , I ca n't actually bring up any ticket other than YY coded ones . ( ps . this is/was the only BA tagged question with no answer ! )
You are definitely liable for duties and taxes in your final destination ( your usual place of residence or the place you are moving to ) . You can not circumvent these rules by adding transit points or a round-trip somewhere . You can also be caught weeks or months after the fact , successfully going through the border does not mean the applicable taxes are not due anymore . When it comes to short visits and/or ( airport ) transits in a third country , you probably do n't have to pay customs duties and taxes but , to do everything completely by the book , you might need to complete some temporary import procedure or to provide a deposit to be refunded once you prove that you have exported the goods again . In most cases , for consumer goods and the things tourists typically carry with them , nobody bothers but such procedure do exist for really expensive things , professional equipment , cars , etc. . See also <URL> for a related discussion and <URL> for a specific example .
These are the ones I look at : Official : <URL> <URL> <URL> Unofficial : <URL> Sometimes I just search on google " [ country name ] travel safety " That 's about all I can think of at the moment .
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
As you are flying on Etihad Airways , your baggage will be checked all the way through . You can even avail US pre-clearance which is available at Abu Dhabi to avoid delays when landing in NYC .
I use Boingo for accessing private wifi at airports and cafes that you would otherwise have to pay for . It is about $ 10 per month and works in many countries including Latvia . I did a search for hotspots at <URL> and they seems to mostly be in Riga . So if you are staying there great , but if you are going out in the countryside not great . If you want cell phone data then I have just bought local USB modem device for about $ 50 and SIM card with local data plan . I have done this in Boliva , Paraguay and Chile , have n't tried in Latvia but I assume they have them there too . Finally when I travel in less developed countries there are always lots of internet cafes and they will often let you connect your laptop direct to their internet via a cable if you pay them a small fee . This gives great speed and cost of about $ 1 per hour . I am not sure where Latvia is on the internet development scale so you will have to scope this idea out on the ground .
The answer is that it can be done , and without too much stress ! There seem to only be a few places where you can get from the lower level of T3 to the transit security check , before you 're allowed into the main bit of the terminal . This meant a bit of a walk , then a long queue at security . After that , you 're in the middle of Concourse 2 of Terminal 3 , bang in the middle of the shops and lots of people standing around looking gormless and getting in your way ... Once you finally escape ( at snails pace ! ) from the middle of T3 , you go passed a nice fountain / pond thing , down the escalators into Terminal 1 / Concourse 1 , and then you should be able to walk at a sensible speed . It does seem that T3 is set up to slow you down and get you to shop , while T1 is set up to allow you to get quickly between gates . So , it took me about 3 times as long to get from the plane to the end of the T3 shops , as it did to walk the length of T1 to the lounge ! On the plus side , there was plenty of time for shower + breakfast + wifi :)
Passport Details According to the <URL> by the <URL> , the passport information on the ICVP is required only to identify the ICVP holder in case of a name change : Q . The front of the ICVP has a place for ' Passport Number or travel document number ' . What does this mean ? A. Travellers can add their passport number on the ICVP if they wish . They do not need to bring their passport with them to the appointment unless they have changed their name and are requesting a duplicate certificate or a new certificate in their new name . I would therefore assume that , unless you plan on changing your name , and if you do so you should probably request a new ICVP altogether , you are not obliged to update the passport information on the booklet . If you want to be on the extra-safe side , you could always request a new booklet , transfer your existing vaccines information , and update the passport details accordingly . Requesting a New Booklet Is is indeed possible to request a new ICVP . This can be done either at the centre where you were issued the first ICVP , or in any other authorised centre . These include most of the Yellow Fever Vaccination Centres , across the globe . Note that the former is the preferred method , as you can be sure that the centre will hold all the patient-related information concerning you . Given proof of the previous vaccinations , these will be transferred to the new booklet . Quoting from the <URL> by the <URL> : Q. Is it possible to reissue an ICVP ? A . It may be necessary to reissue an ICVP given within the previous ten years in some circumstances . [ ... ] In either scenario , re-issue of the ICVP must be completed by a doctor , nurse or pharmacist working in a designated YFVC . Information about the original YF vaccination must be available ( e.g. copy of patient record , vaccination booklet , or communication from a health professional in the original centre ) .
I found <URL> . It says all rights reserved so I 'll just link to it . It clearly shows that they take coins credit cards bills I do n't see any indication of change-giving although it 's possible that is below the frame of the picture . Next to the coins slot someone has taped up a diagram of what coins are ok and they appear to be Canadian toonies , loonies , and quarters only . The bills appear to take both Canadian and US bills based on the pictures next to the bill slots - the top two have more colour and are probably Canadian $ 5 and $ 10 and the bottom three look , from a distance , like they might be US ones - $ 1 , $ 5 , and $ 10 would make sense .
The UK Business Visitor Visa is <URL> so your question has limited life . The new rules will be posted at Immigration Rules <URL> On the start date ( 24 April ) of the new rules , your BVV will automatically convert to a Visitor ( standard ) visa . You do n't have to do anything for this to happen . People who hold a valid visit visa that was issued prior to 24 April 2015 can use this to enter the UK provided they are still a genuine visitor . They will be able to use this visa to carry out the additional permitted activities . For example , a person with a business visit visa can use this to enter the UK for a holiday or to receive private medical treatment . Source : email from the Home Office to UK lawyers sent on 3 March 2015 The Visitor ( standard ) visa allows you enjoy tourism or business or recreational coursework for as much as you want on multiple visits until it expires . For your other questions , you will always have a landing interview with a British Immigration Officer who will determine if you still qualify . They will look at the same paperwork you originally used with your application so you should bring it along . As long as you are still a genuine visitor , you will have no problems . Adding As always , during a transitional period when old rules change to new rules , it 's advisable to carry a print-out of the relevant rule with you .
Well there is definitely free Wi-Fi at Guangzhou International Airport , including in locations that transit passengers can use . When I was in transit for four hours a few days ago I 'd say about every second departure gate had an Internet point which included I think two electric sockets on either side . These were of course a bit crowded with people using and charging various devices . There were various other sockets around the place that took various shaped plugs , but all the ones I tried seemed to have their electric supply disabled leaving only those at the Internet points working . It turns out that to get a login you need a mobile phone or an account on some Chinese Internet service I 'd never heard of called <URL> . I 'm a bit of a phone hater so I did n't understand some of the jargon but it seemed that only Chinese phone numbers would work , perhaps only certain carriers : China Mobile , China Unicorn , and China Telecom . As I had no telephone and no Sina Weibo account I spent my four hours without Internet at Guangzhou airport .
You can even get an IDP from AAA via Mail ! The application form is at <URL> I do n't know if they would mail it to Spain , but if you have someone in the US to go to them with the filled form and all the requirements ( passport photos and copy of drivers license ) he will get the IDP and can express mail it to you ! If not , your best chance is to just call the AAA . While you usually wo n't get any trouble without it , if something happens and you do n't have an IDP you are in trouble . Insurance companies are happy for any reason to save money . The police will also take a closer look after an accident .
From <URL> Can a Visa Waiver Program traveler with more than one passport travel to the United States on the passport that he or she did not use when applying for a travel authorization ? No . Each Visa Waiver Program traveler must have an approved travel authorization for the passport they plan to use before they travel to the United States . If a traveler obtains a new passport , they must submit a new travel authorization application in ESTA using the new passport . A processing fee will be charged for each new application submitted .
No , in the specific case of <URL> as jpatokal has already noted , but also , no in general . Accrual of points in multiple programs is expressly prohibited by most programs in the T&amp;C , not just airlines but for frequent dining programs ( you can have multiple credit cards for one program , but a max of one program per credit card ) and rental car and hotel partnerships ( sometimes you can get both car/hotel points and airline points , but only one one partner airline ) . The very <URL> runs against double-dipping . The obvious and original purpose of frequent flyer miles was to encourage people to choose one particular airline over its competitors . So , if you could double-dip -- or triple-dip , or 30-dip -- you 'd no longer have an incentive to fly a particular airline . This is the most fundamental reason why airlines have no interest in allowing accrual to multiple programs . But today , frequent flyer miles are also a huge profit center for airlines -- one of which they must be highly protective . Miles are not " free " even though they seem like a sort of fiat currency that airlines could " print " at will . The airline has no direct interest in where you do your banking or grocery shopping ; none of that money makes it into their coffers . But your bank and your supermarket care , and because a significant number of their customers like miles , they will purchase miles from the airlines to give to their customers as an incentive . During the difficult early 2000s , FFPs were often the only profitable part of an airline 's business , and in a large program contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the bottom line : even money-bleeding Qantas reported a <URL> in its frequent flyer program last year . This is why airlines are so deeply in bed with their credit card partners -- Delta with American Express , United with Chase , and so on . When Air Canada 's Aeroplan was spun off into a separate company , it reported that <URL> , with only 27 % from Air Canada ( mostly flights ) ! Second , your program has a tremendous amount of information about you that is valuable to marketers -- where you travel to , what kind of tickets you buy at what prices and when you book them , what seasons you will be in different cities , and so on . This has boosted the valuations of FFPs far above what would be expected based on purely revenue-based pricing . When you consider this , there is no scenario in which double-dipping of miles would be profitable to any party except the passenger -- and who has already given the airlines money in exchange for miles in a single program . Your fare has gone to Alaska Airlines , and you requested BA miles for them . Alaska purchases miles from BA and awards them to you . To request AA miles , Alaska would need to purchase and track miles from AA as well . That might make you and a lot of other people happy , but it would annoy BA and AA , who would be jealous of each over over your business , and it would annoy AS , which would incur additional costs because the benefit would probably not increase revenue enough to offset the administration costs and the annoyance of your partners . This is also why it is so difficult to change credit after the fact . If you decided you wanted AA credit instead of BA , you 'd need to ask BA to cancel their credit , and recognize those miles as still available to AS . Then you would ask AS to credit the flight from their stash of AA miles instead . You can see that such changes would incur accounting and other processing costs , and because credits and transfers are generally done in batches/sweeps instead of real time , there is a risk that customers would redeem miles while they were in the midst of being moved from one account to another . Double-dipping scenarios Now , there are a handful of scenarios where you can get away with double-dipping in airline programs , though it 's usually something which seems like double-dipping , but is n't actually . Rebooking on a non-partner airline For example , suppose you have purchased a ticket to fly on Delta , but due to mechanical problems , they are unable to fly you to your connection , and arrange for you to fly on American instead . You give your American AAdvantage number when boarding the AA flight , and receive AA credit for it , but you can also write to Delta and request original routing credit , which they will often give as a customer service gesture . This wo n't work with airlines who are partners , because they will see the credit in each other 's systems and deny the double-dip . If your Asiana flight from San Francisco to Seoul is overbooked , and they put you on the next flight out on United , you wo n't be able to request both Asiana and United credit for it . Non-mileage airline programs Singapore Airlines has two programs : <URL> and the <URL> . KrisFlyer is a traditional frequent flyer program , whereas PPS is a Singapore Airlines-only recognition ( no Star Alliance benefits or equivalent ) for high-revenue flyers . So , if you buy a lot of business - and first-class ti
There is really no ' trick ' to this type of travel . If you want to book this as a single itinerary then the only ' trick ' is to go to as many booking sites ( brokers and airlines ) as you can manage and do price comparisons . It helps to have some flexibility in the dates . If you do n't mind booking multiple tickets , probably the best deal on this trip will be to buy two round trip tickets . First A - > B - > A and then , separately , B - > C - > B with the latter ticket being within the time you spend in city B . The main issue with this is that these are independent tickets . If flight A - > B is delayed , causing you to miss B - > C then you are responsible for buying a new B - > C ticket . Since you plan on staying in B before proceeding to C , this will only be a problem on your return journey where a delay in C - > B can cause you to miss B - > A. Ideally , you should split your stay in B to ensure against this . At minimum ensure that you have 3 + hours stopover on the way back ( more if the flight B - > A is an expensive one ) . Lastly , it is worth pricing individual flights from A - > B , B - > C and C - > A. Typically , you wont save any money over two round trip tickets , but sometimes it may wind up only costing a little bit more and you get a simpler leg C - > A . This will vary depending on what cities A , B and C are and how they relate to each other . Also if an airline has its hub in A and offers flight to both B and C ( but has no flights between B and C ) they may sell you a return ticket with the legs A - > B and C - > A . This all depends on what cites A , B and C stand for . I did a trip like this recently where A was Reykjavik , B Washington D.C. and C San Francisco . It wound up being simplest to book A - > B and C - > A ( via Seattle actually ) as a return ticket with one airline and then B - > C as a separate one-way ticket with another airline . Doing it this way was actually a bit cheaper ( although only a bit ) but the flight home via Seattle was much shorter then to go back home via D.C.
There are three common situations : The country you are departing has outbound passport control Once you cross the line you have officially left the country as far as immigration is concerned . You must pass through immigration to exit this area back to the public spaces . In some cases , like Vancouver , it 's not really " passport control " . It 's just a guy who checks your boarding pass and tells you that you can not return this way ( he has no authority other than calling someone else who does ) . But it 's effectively the same thing . Canadian immigration gets passenger lists from the airlines and does n't bother you on the way out . The country you are traveling to has remote pre-clearance . The USA does this from Canada and Shannon , Ireland . Once you cross the line you have officially departed the current country and entered the destination country as far as immigration is concerned . You may travel directly to your destination , usually without any further interactions of any kind with immigration or airport security ( rather dependent on the gate arrangements at transfer airports ) . The country you are departing does not have outbound passport control Or at least not at this departure point . You mix with other international and domestic travelers and board your departing vessel . You are considered to have departed when you pass the boarding gate . Note the repeated use of " as far as immigration is concerned " and " considered to have departed " . The departure lounge is not an embassy , it is still the sovereign soil of the departure country and if the local police want you for anything they will just walk in and grab you . If the American pre-clearance staff object they will be bluntly told to shut up and get out of the way or get arrested themselves for obstruction ( pre-clearance staff are not diplomats ) . In all the above cases , once you are " considered to have departed " you have met any immigration limits you may have . If you do this one minute before midnight on the day your visa expires you will not be considered to be overstaying . If your flight/ship/bus / train is cancelled you will usually get a short-term readmission as you did " leave " and the fact that you are still here is beyond your control . if immigration really wants you to leave you might even get a free hotel room for the night . Flights in the Schengen zone are considered to be domestic flights - there is no passport control . Tax easements ( duty-free shopping ) have more to do with your intentions than position within the airport . I 've been to airports where the duty-free shops are in the public spaces . You show your boarding pass , buy what you want , and it 's delivered to your departure gate ( which also nicely bypasses security ) . If you do n't have a suitable boarding pass you simply pay the tax-in price . If the airport construction allows it ( Heathrow for example ) transiting passengers remain in the international area and have no interactions with immigration . This is purely a convenience and cost-saving measure . If you are wanted by the police for something serious they can and will arrest you in the international concourse . If , in this example , the UK does not wish to admit you for any reason you are fine here as you do not officially enter the UK . Passengers transiting between airports ( Heathrow - > Gatwick happens a lot ) DO require admission to the UK , which is occasionally denied . This means you go back to your departure point rather than your destination . Legal rights of the departure country extend up to the time the airplane 's wheels leave the ground ( not sure about ships ) . If you punch out the cabin crew while taxiing to the runway , the local police will be called . Do it after takeoff and it 's really the pilot 's choice to return and land or fly to the destination - legal authority passes to the air carrier 's country of registration after takeoff but the pilot can choose to accept the local authorities rather than carry a problem for 10 hours . If the departure country 's authorities decide they want to invite you in for tea and biscuits after takeoff , they can request that the airplane return or land at another airport in the same country . If the pilot refuses they either let you go or shoot the plane down .
Information on import duties for purchase of items outside the EU are available <URL> . And a calculator is available <URL> . You are liable for import taxes according to the rules <URL> . Presuming the value of the item is over 150 Euro , you will have to pay duty and tax on the whole value . It appears that a food mixer is code 8509 40 00 00 : Food grinders and mixers ; fruit or vegetable juice extractors This code is subject to 2.2 % duty and then 21 % VAT . The duty is applied first and then VAT is applied on the total of value + duty . If you bring the item back with you in luggage , the duty free allowance is shown <URL> . You do pay taxes for : Products you purchased outside the EU during the trip , if the total value exceeds $ 430 Note that taxes are only due on items you are importing to the EU . Items that you already owned before travelling , and as such have already had appropriate EU taxes paid , do not count towards the alliance or need any taxes paying . Note that if you exceed the duty free limit on a single item , you will <URL> on the whole amount . It is not permitted to divide the value of 1 article over several people . If you take 1 article with a value exceeding $ 430 with you , you will have to pay tax over the whole amount . Examples : - You buy a camera for $ 500 . You must pay tax over the entire amount . - You buy a watch for $ 400 and a fountain pen for $ 55 . The total amount is $ 455 . You only have to pay tax over the fountain pen .
Refusing to eat totally is indeed very rude . In fact , it might be taken as an insult if you were the main guest . However , you can always ask for a plate and a spoon , fill the plate and eat the way you are used to . This will totally save the situation and will be understood positively since people know how foreigners eat , but not eating at all is something you should avoid . By the way , asking for a spoon or fork is totally normal even if you were n't a foreigner .
end question
start question
Do I need to take any precautions regarding smog when travelling ?
Smog is becoming more of a problem with urbanization , especially in developing countries with fewer restrictions on emissions control . ( <URL> ) In cities like Beijing , where it 's a serious problem , there 's often a government or city board that monitors it and provides warnings . In Beijing , that 's the The Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center . Usually when smog levels are high or dangerous , they 'll release a statement . So if you 're concerned , keep an eye or ear out for their announcements . What to do about it ? Well one government , at least , has provided some suggestions . The Ministry of Environment ( MoE ) in Canada , produced a website on <URL> . The key points : avoid exertion outdoors replan activities for when smog levels are lower stay away from high traffic areas ( exhaust fumes make it worse ) stay in a well-ventilated place drink plenty of fluids if you experience any symptoms ( shortness of breath , etc ) seek medical attention ! They also have information on how you can help to reduce levels ( on the same page ) .
No issues as long as you put it in your checked luggage . Refer to <URL> page . Remember to pack extras of important health supplies in case of travel delays . This is especially important for items that may be difficult to get at your destination , like prescription medicines . Note that for special medicine/equipment like Needles or syringes , you may need a letter from your doctor .
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
No , you do not need an ESTA . In this context , " transit " means travelling from country A to country B with a stop in the USA on the way . You are already in the USA and are not intending to enter or leave , so your flight is a domestic flight . The ESTA and VWP rules do not apply . As a domestic flight passenger , you will not encounter US Customs and Border Protection officers . You will still have to pass through airport security ( TSA ) , but that applies to all flights and they do not deal with visa issues at all .
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
I have now made the trip and can therefore answer my own question . Yes , they do let you take the earlier Thalys train , but you will not have a seat reservation , so the trip may be less comfortable . Taking the earlier train may be seen as a trade-off between time and comfort . Getting to the earlier train in time was easy as I suspected . It took me less than 10 minutes to get off my plane , walk to the station , pick up my ticket at the NS desk and go down to the platform . I believe I would have been able to make it in time even with a slight delay and/or checked-in luggage . Both the guy at the ticket counter and the staff at the platform told me that I would be allowed on the earlier train if it was not full . The staff on the train told me that there would be no empty seats for part of the trip , but that I could always stand in the restaurant car . I was able to sit down from Schiphol to Rotterdam and from Antwerp to Brussels , but on the Rotterdam-Antwerp leg all seats were reserved and occupied , so I had to stand in the restaurant car for roughly a third of the trip . There were 4 of us standing there , so I was not the only one lacking a seat reservation . I got the impression that this was standard practice and that they would normally always let you on the earlier train , but that there was no explicit guarantee . I can imagine that they reserve the right to decline if for instance the train gets really packed . It was definitely worth it for me to take the earlier train , since I was on a tight schedule and I really did n't mind standing for part of the trip . On the other hand , if you ´ re not in a hurry and you do n't mind spending an extra hour in Schiphol , having a seat reservation would probably make your train ride more enjoyable . Taking the earlier train probably does n't always mean that you have to stand for part of the trip , and you can always ask before you get on if it means you will have to stand .
For contingent purposes , I always carry the following , in no particular order : Printed copies of my passport and visas ( also electronically on my mobile and laptop ) Printed and electronic copy of my travel itinerary ( I use TripIt on my mobile , and it 's always there anyway ) . Printed copy of my accommodation confirmation ( if available ) Visa-supporting travelling documents ( e.g. invitation letter ) Additional means of identification -- be it driving license or national ID card -- in case something happens to your passport . At the very least , your embassy would like to see these . I also store encrypted electronic copies of the most important travelling documents on a cloud storage service , e.g. Dropbox .
TL ; DR There are multiple factors involved with being able to drive in cold temperatures even with the onset of cold temperatures being fairly sudden 2-3 days notice . You should be looking at the following major components : Engine , Cabin , and Tires and looking at them separately and then there are additional subsystems and conditions that will make for an interesting conversation on its own so let 's begin : CABIN There are 2 important aspects in making sure that your cabin can provide you a comfortable ride : Weather stripping - There are kits that are being sold in auto stores and online that will provide better seals for your cabin during winter . Cold temperatures especially on the spectrum on -25 to -40 C tend to make rubber harder and more brittle and thus when you open the doors and closing them you can break those down and make holes in insulation making it more difficult for you to drive when you have to put on thick gloves and hat and shearling or similar to make sure you stay comfortable ( sorta ) . Heater - Make sure it works ! Cars like older <URL> had to have separate heaters because of the rear mounted engine and that heater ( as it turned out ) was basically a pilot light fed by gasoline from the tank heating the air that was pushed into the cabin . If this thing went out ... Well you get the idea . Windows - In addition to making sure that mounting weather stripping is up to par you will have to look whether or not your glass especially on the Windshield is good . I have personally had issues in one of the cars I owned when I had to defog the the windshield it cracked because of the temperature difference between inside and outside . Thankfully it was only a crack running along the bottom so I could still drive but a spiderweb on your windshield could pose a problem . This is usually not a problem for the newer cars with <URL> installed by the manufacturers but it could be a concern for older ones and for cars that had to have any of the glass replaced , which could be done by the outside parties . ENGINE There are several subsystems that will need to be looked at for it to function properly so let 's try : Battery The battery is important not just to start the car but also to make sure that your electrical systems run . A shorted out battery will stop your electrical systems from running . In addition to that the colder temperatures slow down the chemical reaction in the battery thus robbing it from power needed to start your car , so if the battery is 3 years or less and your car will only stay in the cold not for an extended period you can safely leave it in the car and you should be OK to start the car after . If not I would suggest removing it and keeping it indoors and reinstalling before you need to use it . Granted of course that you can remove it , some times it 's not that easy especially with modern cars that only have electronic keys . So if you have a batter that is 3 + years old it might be a good idea to replace it . Engine Block and Motor Oil <URL> needs to stay liquid and be able to be pumped into the engine when it starts so Winter viscosity needs to be appropriate . For the longest time in the US it was fairly standard to have cars with <URL> grade motor oil and mechanics looked at you funny when you requested 5W or even 0W oil which performs better at lower temperatures and helps to prevent your engine from seizing because oil pump ca n't put the what became of motor oil at those temperatures into the engine to lubricate the moving parts . <URL> also helps to be heated up using <URL> when the car is parked since it provides heat to the block keeping fuel , oil , and coolant at temperatures above freezing so that engine can start better . This usually comes as standard or optional equipement on trucks with large diesel engines to keep the fuel from <URL> but that 's next . Fuel and Fuel System There are different precautions that may need to be taken for gasoline vs. diesel fuel . Diesel Fuel because of generally higher viscosity or presence of bio components at <URL> so there is usually a heater for the fuel tank and fuel lines that is built in to the car . Whether or not it is hooked up to the <URL> that may come with the car remains to be seen but usually is . Some diesel engines provide <URL> to heat up the block somewhat to help with the start . Gasoline engines for the most part do n't have the problems with gelling fuels and freezing which happens around -50 C , however , modern gasolines have additives like Ethanol which freeze at higher temperatures , as well as potentially water that may have been mixed in with the gasoline , that actually can clog the fuel pump and fuel line ( I know of several manufacturer 's recalls , most notably Nissan Altima recently ) Cooling System The <URL> in the cooling system depending on the temperature can contain water and freeze in the pipes or radiator or in the water pump ( just watched my friend 's Porsche blow an engine due to this ) . So if you
Wow . . that 's a tough one . The official documents are online at the <URL> but ( naturally ) they 're all in Georgian and even Google Translate could n't help me find anything there of note . There 's an <URL> but they lack the detailed document search you need to find information this specific . Meanwhile , the US Department of State has this to say in their <URL> : They do n't mention knives at all but perhaps absence of evidence is evidence of absence in this case . Then there 's the completely unofficial , anecdotal accounts I 've turned up elsewhere on the web : Centurion , a hostile environment training provider , <URL> . ( To be taken with salt due to their business interests . ) This article in the <URL> also claims many students now carry knives to school due to an increase in bullying . ( Does n't mention if it 's legal . ) The author of <URL> , suggests Swiss Knives and Leathermans as good gifts for a host family . ( Might be stupid . ) These are about as far as you can get from an official source but they do paint the picture of a society either without strong concealed weapon laws or at least very poor enforcement . It may just be that my Google-Fu is weak today but I get the distinct feeling Georgia does n't have any knife laws to speak of . ( Oh but obviously do n't take them in your carry on ! )
No , you do n't need local currency . Istanbul Atatürk is a massive transit airport ( <URL> in 2013 ) , and virtually all shops are more than happy to accept credit cards . Some will even take euros , but the exchange rate will not be in your favor .
In some airline examples , it 's only when you get to check in - either online or in person , that the passport details are requested . Before then you 'd receive only a booking reference number , and you may be asked for your name and other identifying details ( as you 've stated Expedia did ) . The booking number is enough to confirm it was your ticket , and at check-in , the passport details will be entered , either by you or the airline staff at the counter .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
La Défense is predominantly a business area , although it does attract a fairly large number of tourists due to many of the buildings in the area , as well as the fact that it 's the end of the Metro line . Ease of finding a taxi will depend on the time of day and day of week . In general you should not have any issues , however there 's likely times of the week when you may have some trouble , such as early in the day , especially on a weekend . Thankfully there 's an easy solution . Very close to the Defense station are two hotels - the Sofitel next to the Metro station , and the Renaissance a very short walk away . Both of these should have taxis available most of the day , or will be able to arrange one for you if they do n't . ( Ironically on my first ever trip to France I was headed to the Renaissance and my taxi driver got lost finding it ! I think we drove around the " loop " 3 or 4 times before he finally managed to find the right exit ! )
So as you have realised , a visa is required for tourist purposes for citizens of Saudi Arabia visiting South Africa . It depends a little on how thorough you want to be - but basically , the more prepared you are , the better chance you have . For example , the most <URL> include : Passport valid for 6 months beyond date of departure . 2 passport-size photos with signature on reverse side . 1 completed application form ( failure to complete the application fully and in detail may result in visa being delayed or refused ) . Proof of sufficient funds to cover visit . Onward/return ticket and , if in transit , proof of sufficient documentation for admission to the country of destination . Extra ones that <URL> include : No criminal record ( if you have proof of this , it could be useful ) Be of sound body and mind ( hard to prove this though ! ) A plan describing your intent while in South Africa - where you 're staying , what you want to do Evidence of hotels booked , car rentals and the like Contacts in case of emergency in South Africa ( if you have any ) A vaccination certificate Passport valid for no less than 30 days after the expiry of the intended visit . Proof of travel insurance / medical cover Now the problem you have is most sites seem to say it can take 3-10 days to process . Of course as you travel a lot , you 're probably aware that money can usually make these delays go away . Talk nicely to the embassy staff , ask if there 's anything extra they might need , make sure all your documents are nicely organised , ask them about South Africa while talking - see if they 're from there and if they have favourite places ( makes a connection , meaning more chance of them helping you out ) .
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
It 'll be up to the hotel and sometimes , the discretion of the person on the front desk . Sure , sometimes your name is enough . Sometimes showing the app is enough ( and should be ) . But there 's that small chance you 'll get that one clerk who wants everything done by the book and insists on seeing your printed reservation . So if you want to avoid hassles , you 'll print it out and bring it along .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
end question
start question
How early do you need to get to the station for a Eurostar service ?
There is a minimum checkin time for Eurostar trains , which is generally 30 minutes before departure ( see below for details ) , but it does vary . Before listing the times , it 's worth thinking a little bit about how the Eurostar checkin process works , as that explains why it is as it is . When you get to the station , you need to checkin with your ticket , either using the automated ticket gates , or with one of the checkin counters ( normally only if you have a problem ) . The deadline is for going through here . After that , there 's normally a small queue ( varies with the number of services due out ) before the security screening . You can take a <URL> , but there are still <URL> . Your bags get x-ray 'd , you go through a metal detector , then you queue up again for the juxtaposed border controls . You show your passport , and clear immigration for the country you 're going to ( either France of the UK , depending on direction ) . After that , you 're into the waiting area before boarding ( and frequent travellers can visit the lounge ) Boarding of Eurostar trains normally begins 20 minutes before departure , and they tend to close the doors a minute or two before the scheduled departure time so they can leave on time . For the ski trains , and summer Avignon service to the south of France , boarding starts earlier , often 35 minutes before . For most people , on most services , the <URL> . If you 're travelling on a Business Premier ticket ( the really expensive ones ) , or you have a Eurostar Carte Blanche frequent traveller card ( lots of journeys in a year ) , then the minumum checkin is 10 minutes before . However , as you do still need to clear security and immigration , you 're probably going to have to run to the train , and there wo n't be time to go in the lounge with only 10 minutes , so getting there earlier is probably advised , especially at busy times ! For the long distance services to Avignon and the Ski Trains , the minimum checkin is 1 hour ( 60 minutes ) before departure . Boarding starts earlier for these , and most people have more luggage , so it all takes a bit longer hence the extra time . Anyone with <URL> needs to add 30 minutes extra . The minimum checkin enforcement varies a little bit . If it 's quiet , you may get away with 25 minutes , but that 's about it . At a very quiet time , you can clear security an immigration in about 5 minutes , but at busy times with lots of queuing it 'll take longer . At a busy time , they tend to be pretty strict !
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
The answer depends on 4 things : How you are getting to the airport What airline you 're flying with How frequent the flights on that route are How good your travel insurance is If you have great travel insurance , are on a route with one flight roughly ever hour , and are just hopping on the tube for 20 minutes to get there , then arriving just before you 're airline 's cut-off time is probably fine . If you 're taking two trains a bus on a 3 + hour journey , with travel insurance that is n't very good about missed departure compensation , to take a once-a-day flight , I 'd say aim to be there at least 3 hours before The close of baggage check and at-desk checkin times varies between airlines . BA , for example , have a <URL> , AA <URL> , so check with your specific airline to see what they require . Security queues can be bad at Heathrow , but not as bad as you find at some other airports world-wide . I often grumble about the Heathrow ones , but frankly I 've had worse at JFK and Seattle recently ! If you 're a frequent traveller who knows how to properly unpack your bag , take out liquids properly , already has liquids in a suitable bag etc , you should be fine within the minimum checkin times . For less frequent travellers , I 'd say 1 hour should be OK . The question then is more about possible delays getting to the airport . You need to leave enough time so that if you get delayed , you wo n't miss the flight . The 2-3 hour figure tends to be more about that , at least for Heathrow . Think about what could go wrong , what 's likely to go wrong , backup options , delay lengths etc. . Then , check your travel insurance , and see what they require . If your travel insurance wo n't cover missed departures due to delays getting to the airport , go for 3 hours minimum unless really close . If your travel insurance says you must have aimed for 2.5 hours before if they 'll cover it , obviously leave 2.5 hours ! Finally , there are shops airside in T3 , and some restaurants , so it 's not the end of the world if you get there with lots of time to spare . There are also some lounges you can pay to enter ( the No. 1 Traveller lounge in T3 is very nice , for example ) . If you have status or are travelling in a premium cabin , that could be a reason to get there extra early so you can enjoy the lounge more ! There is no universal answer
Assuming that Adria Airways closes boarding as usual 20-30 minutes prior to departure and you do check-in in advance , you have 45-55 minutes left for security clearance and finding the gate , what usually is more than enough time at Frankfurt Airport . You 'd also be fine if the train is 10 or 15 minutes delayed .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
Are your tickets separate or one booking ? If they are two different tickets , then the Passenger Service Charge applies because you are technically / legally originating from Bangkok for the second one . The fact that you arrived in Bangkok only 12 hours earlier and did not leave the transit lounge does not negate this aspect . If you have a single ticket and Bangkok is just a layover , then the airline should not have charged the fee and you need to contact them about refunding the incorrect charge .
There 's a lot of handy info on the <URL> about this . Interestingly , much of it is n't positive about the InterRail discounted tickets ... A couple of key bits to pull out ( but you 'll really want to go and read the whole thing ! ) Eurostar is n't covered ... The best and cheapest option is usually to forget your pass and buy a regular cheap Eurostar ticket well in advance at www.eurostar.com . These start from just # 39 one way or # 69 return ... In theory , Eurostar offers a ' special ' fare for InterRail passholders , # 57 one way , # 100 return , with changes to travel plans allowed , but as you can see , this is actually more expensive than the cheapest regular fare if you book a month or two in advance and commit to a specific date and train ... . but be warned , the number of passholder tickets is controlled by a quota and people have turned up at the station on a Sunday to be told there are no passholder places available on any Eurostar departure until Wednesday , and if they wanted to travel immediately they 'd have to pay the full-price regular fare , a whopping # 170 for immediate departure ... . Alternatively , take a ferry to mainland Europe : If you prefer to travel by ferry rather than Eurostar , or if you find all the cheap Eurostar fares sold out , there are several cheap ferry options . Top tip : South Eastern Trains offer a # 33.90 day trip ticket from London to Calais covering both train and ferry , which is cheaper even for a one-way trip than a # 34 train ticket to Dover and a # 30 ferry ticket on to Calais So , assuming you do n't just end up buying a normal cheap Eurostar ticket , and you do n't decide on using the return half of a London-Calais day return by ferry If you did want to book , then the <URL> that you ca n't book pass holder fares online . Instead , your options are to book by phone on +44 ( 0 ) 1233 617 575 ( and I believe pay a fiver booking fee ) , or buy the ticket at a Eurostar terminal and hope that there are still some passholder fares left ( otherwise it 's going to get expensive ! )
Well , if you want to know something about culture of other country , why not to try solving general problems in that country ? For example : Try to buy food in a supermarket . Or even in a small shop near the center . Try to go and use a barber . Try to find a battery for your cell-phone Try to ask people where is the best cafe they know ( this is a fantastic question , for example , for the Italians ) Try to buy general goods , like socks or t-shirt Try to get <URL> for you and communicate with them who accept you in their home . Walk a lot and use public transportation instead of prepackaged tours ( from <URL> ) Get cash from the ATM - and go into places that do n't have the Visa/MasterCard/AmeEx logos on the door ( from <URL> ) Language barrier is not the problem - if you are polite and smile , people will help you . But never go deep into the city you do n't really know about . Start with 500m away from your hotel .
Here 's my recommendation as a former host of 30 + people on Couchsurfing . Step 0 Book commercial accommodation . You never know if you find someone or not , so it 's best to prebook something for the duration of your trip , and then cancel as late as possible once you have confirmations for a given night . Both Booking.com and Hostelworld.com allow free cancellations for up to 24 hours before check-in . Be aware that , unlike a hotel , hosts can cancel your stay at any time , so nothing is fully guaranteed . Step 1 Check how busy is the city which you plan to visit . NYC is going to be a lot more busy than Montpelier , Vermont . Step 2 Check if there are any special holidays around the days of your stay . I usually got as many as 20 requests for NYE in Prague , as compared to 1-2 requests for other days of the year . Another thing to watch out for is the current season . A lot more people visit Europe in the summer as compared to winter , for example . Step 3 Depending on 1 . and 2. , send a message anytime between 30 and 5 days . More for big cities and holidays , less for small cities at a quiet time of the year . Make you sure you state an exact date and an approximate time of arrival , as well as the exact number of people in your party . Try to message hosts who have logged into the website in the past 3 days , as this makes it much more likely that they will at least read your message .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
The Eurostar arrives at London Kings Cross/St . Pancras . From there you can catch the midland main line ( to Sheffield ) or the east coast main line ( to Newcastle and Edinburgh ) . If you wanted to go to Manchester you 'd need to take the West coast main line from Euston ( a 9 minute tube ride away ) . As long as you do n't mind changing trains , the Eurostar is a perfectly reasonable way of getting to northern England
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
Firstly - more for the benefit of anyone else in this situation in the future - Vietnam Airlines should rebook you for free if your flight is scheduled to depart earlier than planned : <URL> The same link also alludes to compensation for delays of over 4 hours ; for the benefit of anyone who speaks Vietnamese , it 's in regulation 14/2015/TT-BGTVT . In the case of a flight from Ho Chi Minh City or Hanoi to Siem Reap , that would be 25 USD as both flights are under 1000km . It 's not clear to me whether this would also apply to an early departure , but regardless it does only apply if you 're told about it less than 24 hours in advance . From personal experience , it 's not uncommon for Vietnamese carriers to cancel flights on their more frequent routes , and to do so relatively close to departure ( but more than 24 hours in advance ) . My educated assumption would be that if they can fit everyone onto three flights say , rather than four , they 'll gladly cancel the fourth .
It 's 5 km between the two stations and the best way to get from one to another would be to get a rickshaw ride . It would probably be around 50 to 80 rupees depending on your <URL> . If you do n't have too much luggage , you could opt for a bus , which is , I think 10 rupees . I imagine it is possible to take a train between these stations but according to my search , there are only 5 trains daily , two early morning , one mid-day , two in the evening . Perhaps there are more trains available that are n't listed on the Indian train info website . It 's also possible to take a taxi but the price is probably double the price of an autoricksaw ride .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
It 's hard to answer " how much " but I 'll try to provide some guidelines and background information . I have n't walked the Camino , though , so maybe some first hand information would be better . Along the path , you will go through a majority of small villages . In these villages , do not expect local people to know any other language than Spanish . Maybe people in charge of the Albergues may be able to speak some English or French . That said , in Spain the second language ( or third , depending on the zone ) taught in schools is English , followed by French . So people in their 20 's or 30 's should be able to help you out . Older people might have been taught some French , just Spanish , or did n't go to school ( post-war era was really rough in Spain ) . Also , in bigger cities along the path ( Pamplona/Iru ña , Logroño , Burgos , León or Santiago ) it should be easier to communicate in English . I think it 's a good idea to write a cheat sheet with basic things ( yes/no , how much is it ? , and so on ) and carry it with you , just in case you run out of batteries .
end question
start question
How big is " too big " for an airline seat ? At what point will you be required to buy two tickets ?
The reason why airlines implement a policy of asking overweight people to get two seats is an air safety issue of whether they can be strapped in properly . The guideline used for this is whether a passenger can fit between the armrests . If a passenger requires two seats , then the policy differs from airline-to-airline if/what the passenger should be charged for it . On London to Sweden flights , British Airways flies Airbus A319/A320 -100 / 200 aircraft with <URL> ( " World Traveller Plus " ) . Premium economy is not as expensive as business class and if you have frequent flyer points , you may be able to get the upgrade cheap . <URL> depending on which flight you take with no difference in business class . <URL> as BA , and <URL> - the difference is that seat pitch ( distance ) is a good 4-5 " less than ' full-cost ' airlines . If that 's not a concern , buying two seats on a budget airline will be cheaper . EDIT : BA does not offer premium economy class for short-haul flights .
According to the <URL> , they recommend MMR , DPT , polio , Hep A/B , Typhoid and Japanese encephalitis Also Malaria meds are recommended . That being said , I 've lived in SE Asia and travelled around with only MMR , DPT , polio and the Heps . A lot of people swear by Malaria meds , but every time I take them , I feel horrible and ca n't really do anything so I generally skip them . I would strongly recommend Japanese encephalitis though , it is currently rated at endemic and is seen even in Bangkok . Hep A/B are rated at a low threat in Thailand , but they are generally good immunizations anyway . MMR , DPT , polio are considered standard for international travel , and are highly recommended . Typhoid is rated as a threat in rural areas . I 'm not sure of the rates in cities .
Update : Good news , when you load the official page , you 'll now see that they accept VISA payments . As a result , you can now buy advance tickets from outside of Peru directly with the website . However , there are still many other ways to do this . I 'd recommend <URL> for sources on how to do it . There are numerous online tour agencies that you can pay to get you tickets . Once you 're in Cusco , you can buy a tour then if you 're doing one of the trails . Once you 're in Aguas Calientes ( final stop on the train route ) , you can buy tickets there . You can even buy tickets at the last second at the gate when you arrive at Machu Picchu . So do n't despair , there are plenty of other ways to achive your dream of going :)
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
The short answer is that , in my experience , Delta is more likely to reward you on the back-end than with discounts at purchase . By that , I mean , you will earn status through miles travelled , which in turn earns you things like free upgrades and additional flexibility when traveling . Here 's what I would do ( keeping in mind that I 'm a little bit obsessive when it comes to booking travel ) ... Research the cost of booking four different ways : Normal return routing ( i.e. , MSP-PHX-MSP ) . Reverse return routing ( i.e. , MSP-PHX 1w , then PHX-MSP , then PHX-MSP 1w ) . Multi-segment routing in different combinations ( i.e. , booking multiple round-trips in a single booking ) . If your schedule ( and patience ) allows for it , also look at connecting flights like MSP-DTW-PHX or MSP-SLC-PHX ( not sure if those routes actually exist , but when you bounce through a secondary hub , you sometimes can get a better price ) . This would add several more hours to each trip , which may be a huge hassle , and not worth it . I 've also found that when I 've booked this way , occasionally , the agent will offer to change my flight to a direct one for free when I check-in if there are any overbooking , weather , or other issues . You may be able to get a better price by booking it one of these ways . MSP is a major hub for Delta , so you 're probably paying a premium for that ( their ticket structure gives preference to tickets booked THROUGH major hubs , not originating/arriving at , in my experience ) . Do you currently have status with DL ? If so , try calling the Premium Sales/Service line , and explain the situation to them . I 've never had much luck , but they will try to help you . It also helps to call during an off-hour . Another option would be to stop in to one of the MSP airport SkyClubs ( PHX does n't have one , if I remember correctly ) . They 're usually much more helpful face-to-face . I remember back when you could actually walk in to a city Delta ticket office ... those days are long gone . Whatever else you do , make sure you also sign up for SkyBonus - <URL> , if this is for business ( and your company does n't already have a travel arrangement in place with Delta ) . You 'll need your corporation 's Federal ID to sign up . It lets you " double-dip " in a way on earning miles ... SkyMiles are yours , but SkyBonus miles become your company 's . Both are valid for travel ( under different schemes ) . Aside from Delta , you 've got a few options : Frontier Airlines ( connecting in Denver ) . Smaller , so you may have better luck negotiating a better price . US Airways . I personally decided to never fly them a few years ago ( very bad repeated experiences with them ) , but I do know people who do n't mind flying them . Southwest . They fly between MSP and PHX . Their " coach " product seems to be less expensive , and their " business " product seems to be only slightly more than competitive coach . It still feels like being on a bus , though .
Not being a lawyer and being myself a citizen from a Schengen and EU member state , I do n't have any direct experience with this kind of issues so that everything I will say should be taken with a grain of salt . Still , I am wondering if it makes any difference in practice ( and , incidentally , how frequently this could really happen ) . It seems that a long stay visa from one of the member states of the Schengen agreement ( which is not a Schengen visa as the Schengen agreement only covers short stays and each member state remains mostly free to establish rules governing long stay visas as they see fit ) gives you the same rights , in other member states , as a " uniform visa " ( i.e. multiple entries in the Schengen area for a maximum of 90 days stay in any half-year ) . This <URL> seems to support this interpretation . According to this webpage , what you have to do to be able to enter France again after 5 months is to go back to the country that delivered the long stay visa ( i.e. Germany in your example ) , just as an " uniform visa " would require you to go back to a non-Schengen country to avoid using up your 90 days quota . One thing I do n't know is how you can go about documenting the fact that you did leave France if you travel by road instead of taking a connecting flight since there are no border controls between France and Germany . That 's the main practical difference with the uniform visa situation as external Schengen borders are guarded and you would get an exit stamp on your passport but the 90 days rule applies in both cases . ( You mentioned France as an example and I looked it up in French but I believe those rules were defined in some EU directives so they should apply for other Schengen countries as well . ) Most importantly , a long stay visa from Germany ( or any other Schengen country ) does not entitle you to stay in France ( or any other Schengen country ) for as long as you wish ( i.e. Germany can not deliver long stay visas for France or vice versa ) so that in both cases you are really using your right to make a short stay in France . Only after 5 years of residence in Germany , will you in fact be entitled to a long stay visa in France ( actually a " titre de séjour " , this is not a visa but a separate document ) but this has nothing to do with Schengen , this is a EU rule that does not apply to non-EU Schengen countries ( and also not to the UK , Ireland and Denmark , despite their being EU members because they opted out , see <URL> ) . It probably also applies to Switzerland via their bilateral agreements with the EU but I am not quite sure . I suspect that having this right recognized might not always be trivial in practice . Additionally , I understand that there are complex rules regarding airside transit . Depending on your nationality , you might be entitled to visa-free transit in international airports of some or all Schengen area countries , so technically needing a visa to stay in the Schengen area does not automatically imply requiring a visa in your scenario .
Hotel pricing in Japan is generally highly seasonal , and many hotels go so far as to publish a " room rate calendar " ( 客室料金カレンダー ) that shows exactly how prices vary through the year . Disney has a <URL> , but I 'll use this rather more typical image from the <URL> in Kyushu to illustrate : To parse that , 月 means month ( 6月 = June , 7月 = July , etc ) , and prices are ranked by color so that yellow ( priciest ) > green > light pink > orange > dark blue > dark pink > light blue > cyan ( cheapest ) ; and no , that order does n't make a whole lot of sense . ( Adding in letter codes , eg . <URL> , is pretty common too . ) A few trends are clear : August is the most expensive month , particularly around Obon ( the yellow days ) , with late July not far behind . This is summer holiday season , when families are traveling . The week around New Year 's Day ( late Dec/early Jan ) and Golden Week ( late April/early May ) are also very pricy . Saturdays ( 土 ) always cost more , often Fridays as well ( although not for this particular chain ) . Winter weekdays are cheapest . This is , I 'd posit , the " standard " pricing pattern for hotels and ryokan in tourist-heavy destinations . Business hotels often reverse this to some extent , with cheaper weekend deals . There can be significant deviations from the norm though : Western-style dynamic pricing is becoming more and more common , especially for identikit city center business hotels that can really only compete on price . Tourist hotels tend to go more for " packages " including dinner and drinks and hot spring passes and whatnot . For both , <URL> is the only English-language website I know of where you can reliably find these deals , its main ( Japanese-only ) competitor being <URL> . Places famous for cherry blossoms ( eg . Kyoto and surroundings ) get an extra high season in late March or so . Ski resorts obviously have their high season in winter ( but for these , too , New Year is super-peak ) . The very cheapest lodgings will have more or less flat pricing year-round , although love hotels etc will usually jack up Fri/Sat prices , and the cheapest rooms tend to sell out first at times of high demand .
Go to the airport anyway . Most likely you will end up with a seat . If not , the airline will take care of you and get you to your destination on another flight . Some possible explanations : The flight is overbooked . If someone else fails to show up for the flight , you 'll have a seat . If not , they will offer incentives ( vouchers for future travel ) for someone to give up their seat and take a later flight . If nobody does , they will bump someone at random ( not necessarily you ) , give them compensation , and put them on a later flight . There are seats still available , but they want to save them for special customers ( elite-level frequent flyers , etc ) . Perhaps they are " premium " seats with extra legroom , exit rows , etc. . Right now these special customers have seats elsewhere on the plane . Sometime before departure , the airline will upgrade their elite customers into these premium seats , leaving their original seats for you . So you most likely will get a seat , though you may not have much choice as to which seat . If you buy your ticket further in advance , when more seats are available , you will have a better chance of being able to confirm your seat assignment .
It turns out that hotels are happy to receive mail for you before you arrive , provided you give them a heads-up first . I just bought my tickets from the Tigers ' <URL> , and had them send it to my hotel . I added my arrival date to the address , as " Lastname樣 ( 4月8日宿泊 ) " . The hotel got it fine . I did have to provide a Japanese phone number to the ticket purchasing website . My Japanese Skype number was n't accepted ( maybe because it has an area code specific to VoIP numbers ) . I used my friends ' number , but I imagine you could just use your hotel 's number ; it 's not like they got a call .
Not very severe . In Munich as with most of Germany , automated transport ticket machines can be changed easily to a number of different languages . Physical German signs are mostly in German but their alphabet is very similar to English so can be easily memorised when you need to know certain place names . However , Munich is a very walkable city which I would recommend doing if you are very central . I would recommend getting a phrase book so you can grasp the very basic of the German language ( Hello , Thank You , Good-bye ) . Although the majority of touristy places speak very good English it is courteous in Europe to at least try with the local lingo . They would appreciate it greatly . The German language is very phonetic with the emphasis usually applying to the first syllable in a word .
TL ; DR : If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Detailed explanation , with pictures : The problem is that there is no single " the price " that goes up and down . On any given flight you can buy as many as a dozen different tickets , each at a different price . They carry different privileges -- eligible to earn frequent flyer miles , lower change fees , lounge access , seat selection included , less credits needed to upgrade , free meal , etc -- depending on the airline . Often , some or all of those privileges mean very little to you and you will just buy the cheapest one . When all of the absolutely cheapest ones are gone , you have to buy the next most expensive class , and that means you will pay more . So how do prices go up ? By the cheapest seats getting bought . How do they go down ? By those seats being cancelled and returned to the pool ( unlikely , since they have high change fees and are bought by people who have firm plans ) , by discount codes or overall " seat sales " being issued , or by seats being moved from one class to another . That last thing is called " yield management " and it is what some very smart people do for a living . They do n't want a plane to go out with an empty seat ( getting $ 0 for it ) but they do n't want to sell it to you 3 months in advance for $ 200 if somebody with an urgent need to travel would pay $ 1500 for it the week of the flight . So they might decide to move an unsold seat from the $ 1500 fare class to the $ 200 fare class , but only if they are sure that 's the only way they 'll sell it . You can see that they can go out with an empty seat 5 times , and the 6th time sell the seat for a premium , and still be ahead overall . They are pretty good at guessing how many " urgent needs " are likely to arise in a given week . And trust me , the holiday season is rich in " urgent needs " . The chances of cheaper seats being available right when everyone wants to fly are slim to none . There are ways to watch the fare classes on a given flight . For example Air Canada offers Tango , Tango Plus , Latitude , Discount Business , and Business . Tango and Tango plus actually have some smaller fare classes inside them . If you look at a random city pair on a random day , you will see something like this : You can see that already , on many of the flights , all of the Tango fares are gone . There are clearly two prices for Tango , and only one flight has the cheaper one left . Similarly there are 3 prices for Tango Plus . And so on . As it gets closer and closer , fares will disappear from some flights . Over time , you can get familiar with the patterns between two cities . You might notice that the 7am flight is alway last to lose its cheap fares , and wait till you see a pattern like this one before you buy . As always , it helps to be unusual . If you prefer a flight at a time of day most people do n't ( like 7am ) you can pay less . If you are n't trying to fly the Friday before Xmas , you 'll pay less . And so on . But look at the difference between Tango and Tango plus here . When all that 's left is $ 597 fares on every flight , they can have a 20 % off sale and bring it down to $ 477 - but you would have been better off with $ 364 in the first place . If you know you 're going , and there 's a fare you can afford , book it . Waiting will almost never save you money , and never enough to offset paying double or triple the cheapo fare because you waited too long . Update Nov 7th , two weeks later : Look what has now happened to that same YYZ-YVR flight on the same date , Dec 23rd : Every flight has gone up dramatically , except ( for some strange reason ) for the last flight of the day . Waiting a few weeks to book would have cost you hundreds of dollars . Let 's also look at a flight two weeks later ( the same distance from today as my first set of prices , but not a holiday ) See how much cheaper those Dec 23rd flights might have been before Oct 23rd , when I took the first screenshot ? The cheapest is 229 ( each way , before taxes and addons , but that 's not the point ) while today the cheapest for the 23rd is 374 , almost double , and if landing at 1am Vancouver time , 4 am body time , does n't seem feasible then it 's going to be $ 607 , almost triple . Ouch . I see no benefit to waiting ... but I plan to update this answer again in a few weeks :-) Update Nov 24th , two-and-a-bit weeks closer to Xmas : Still looking at YYZ-YVR on Friday Dec 23rd , same airline : Now it 's really awful . The cheapest is $ 607 , in fact some of the economy classes now being sold cost more than sitting in business class would cost ! Again let 's advance to some point as far away from now as Dec 23rd was when I started this . Say Jan 23rd . Wow ! Now some flights are as little as $ 199 ! Notice also that there are two less flights on Jan 23rd than on Dec 23rd . The airline has added as much capacity as it can for the route on t
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
If you rent an Automatic , you 'll be given an Automatic . If you do n't rent an Automatic , you will most likely be given a manual . In countries like Ireland ( presuming you mean Killarney , Ireland ? ) , the majority of rental cars will be manual , and renting an automatic will almost certainly be more expensive . On a rental I had in the UK a few weeks ago , the prices for an automatic ranged from 2 times to 5 times the price of a manual , and at least one company was " sold out " of all automatics whilst still renting manuals . As with any rental cars , there 's always the possibility that they will not have what you 've booked when you arrive . This is normally caused by people not returning vehicles on time , leaving the location short of a specific type of car . This is no difference regardless of whether you book an auto or a manual , with the exception that as companies in the UK normally have less autos available there is potentially a greater chance of this happening when you book an auto . If this does happen , you should ask the company to make you a booking at a different rental company and cover the additional costs ( if any ) .
Buy two full-fare tickets . They are typically fully refundable . Obviously , check before you purchase . You typically buy directly from the airline . Then , whether she says yes or no , get them refunded and buy something sane . You 'll have to pay a small charge , but nothing compared to the fare difference . Or -- and this is cheaper if you are going to just print the ticket yourself -- forge the tickets completely . Just take an old ticket and replace the dates and destinations .
While there 's always an inherent possible risk with these types of sites ( VBRO , AirBnb , even hostel websites ) - for the most part , they work fine - otherwise they would n't work ! Always look at any reviews on the property/owner - if any , and see if there have been any noted problems in the past . Perhaps Google the address or property as well , just to make sure it is where it says it is . If there 's a phone number , you could call to double check on some aspects - what 's included , and so on . However , if you 're really paranoid , or cautious - say , if you 've just put down $ 1000 on a rental , you could consider their <URL> , where from $ 39 , they 'll cover you for up to $ 10,000 in fraud , misrepresentation or even just a double-booking .
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
Shops normally can not sell to tourists VAT/Duty free just because you have a plane ticket . The maximum a shop can do is sell you VAT-Free since that is a separate charge . Duties on Liquor and Cigarettes are not known to the personnel since they are applied at the manufacturer/wholeseller level so the shop can not sell you those without charging the duty . It 's basically already paid . VAT Refunds : Most countries allow you to get VAT back when you exit the country as a non-resident . Examples : In Singapore for example , you can buy things anywhere and get the VAT back on the airport provided you bring the receipt ( and ideally the item ) with you after the check-in . If you buy goods in Germany , you can take anything to the customs border to Switzerland and get the VAT back as long as you are not a German resident and have the item together with the receipt . Prepare to be asked for the VAT on the other side however when you come into Switzerland however . The difference can be worthwhile however for goods of higher value . <URL> on Tax-Free shopping in Germany for example . Duty Free : As mentioned above , Duty on Alcohol and cigarettes , coffee and other items are normally more difficult to get back - if at all possible - since they are not listed on the bill as a separate item and included in the base price . There are some duty/tax free shops in several European and Asian cities that cater for tourists specifically , outside of the airport . I would google specifically for the country that you are interested in . This <URL> might help also . It lists some places where you can shop duty/tax-free outside of airports as well . There are also whole regions where Duties and/or Taxes are exempted despite the fact that they are part of a country where normally higher taxes apply , as for example <URL> and <URL> are EU VAT free zones .
This is writing after the journey . I had convinced ticket examiner by showing the confirmation message received on my registered mobile number on irctc website after booking both tickets , that message has PNR number and passenger name of the booked ticket so that he wanted to see my identity card only .
They are worthless . Happened to me some years ago , drove to Miami , walked in the airport , just to find the counters closed ; at the neighboring counter they told me that they filed for bankruptcy this morning . I had to buy a new ticket from another airline ( for an arm and a leg , of course ) . Note that if you bought the ticket through a provider ( like kayak , expedia , or travelocity , etc. ) they are probably responsible for the price . In my case , they refunded the original price without discussion . They do not pay the newer , higher price ticket that was needed , though .
This is a very difficult question to answer in general , because different airlines have different seating configurations , seat pitches , etc. . The best thing to do is to check out sites dedicated to airline seating plans , such as : <URL> ( by far one of the most popular ones ) <URL> <URL> All of these sites are built on a user-submitted database + aircraft seat plan data on what the best seats in an airplane are , according to aircraft type , passenger class , short/long haul sectors etc. . I see that you 've already checked SeatGuru ; beyond that , you may also want to check one of the others ones to see if SeatGuru 's missed out anything . Usually , they 're pretty standard . For economy class , unless you have extra legroom or reduced recline or proximity to galleys / toilets , there literally is n't much that distinguishes one seat from another . After that , it all boils down to personal choices . I usually like aisle seats for extra legroom . The back of an airplane will experience more G-force during ascents , so some people prefer seats towards the front of the aircraft . And so on . Everyone likes extra legroom , but as an economy class passenger even if you check-in online , chances are you wo n't get those seats on long haul flights because many airlines open up online check-in for those in higher frequent flyer tiers earlier . This gets easier to snag if you 're a solo traveller because it 's much more likely to find singleton seats later in the checkin process . When travelling with four people , on your flight the middle row will allow you all to sit together . If you want two window seats , then it 's going to be quite awkward if you plan to talk during the journey . My advice ? It 's a long haul flight . People around you wo n't like people chatting . Tune in to the in-flight entertainment system , read a book , or just zone out on any seat you get .
end question
start question
How do I get to Eglwys Gwyddelod Stone Circle ?
From the <URL> , the key bit of information there is OS 135 SH 663002 That tells you that you 'll want to get hold of the <URL> to cover you for the walk you 'll be doing . The numbers are the <URL> , which tell you exactly where on the map you 'll find the stone circle Looking at the map , the stone circle is a few hundred meters over ( but some distance higher ! ) than a very minor road . The road in question has National Cycle Route 82 going down it , so it should be pretty quiet . Officially , it looks like you should be making us of the car park that is about 2.5 km west along the road , at 642986 . Looks like you can probably find some nice circle routes around there , maybe going a tiny bit further west along the valley , then up and finally east to the stone circle . Alternately , there are a couple of farms just east of the stone circle on the road . You might get lucky and find that one of the farmers is happy for you to park there , but I would n't count on it . There 's no way you 'll be able to park on the road , it 'll be much too small ! Update If you do n't have the map to hand , <URL> , and <URL>
I arrive in Frankfurt Hahn airport ( a good 90mins drive from the city ) at 9:15 PM . No worries ! The HHN airport is indeed far from Frankfurt , but the connections are not that bad . Just take the 10.30 pm bus . Ticket for an adult is 15 $ ( 14 $ if you buy it online ) . You find the bus schdules via the airport 's official site : <URL> . Click Frankfurt on the map and <URL> opens ( <URL> ) . September 29 is Tuesday , and the last departures from the airport are : ( Note that departures at/after midnight are shown in the next day 's -- in this case Wednesday 's -- timetable . )
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
The most straightforward way would be taking the <URL> to Victoria Station ( the journey is about 30 mins ) . The Gatwick Station is directly connected to the South Terminal . From the North Terminal it 's a bit further and you need to take the automated shuttle train . Trains leave every 15 minutes . From Victoria Station you have no less than three options : take the underground/tube/metro / whatever-you-call-it Circle Line ( High Street Kensington direction ) and get out at Paddington stop . It 's gon na take about 20 minutes . Accordingly to Gagravarr 's comment you could also go from Victoria Line to Oxford Circus , then a cross-platform change to the Bakerloo Line up to Paddington . If the metro is closed , take the bus 436 to Paddington . For all those options , make sure you use the exit at the front of the train , not the exit on the upper floor through the elevators or escalators . You could also take a taxi , if the price is n't a concern for you . There are other possibilities I left out because they wo n't be faster or more straightforward than this . Note : be aware of the fact that , <URL>
Unless it is a significant amount , changing coins is n't worth it . The amounts are small and most banks and foreign exchanges wo n't accept coins generally . My solution is to collect the left over foreign coins until I fly on an airline that participates in the <URL> program and then donate them . British Airways and Virgin also have their own programs . It is a great concept as a small amount of foreign coins is n't very valuable to you , but when compounded across thousands of passengers a year , it can make a real difference . If you do n't want to wait until your next flight to donate , many charity shops ( at least in the UK ) accept foreign coins .
My opinion is that a Paris Visite pass is hardly worth the money . If that 's true in your case is difficult to answer . Basically , you have to use the public transport quite heavily . The price of single metro ticket is 1.70 EUR and if you buy tickets by a batch of 10 ( " carnet " ) , the price goes down to 1.33 EUR per ticket . With that information in mind , take the Paris Visite pass you are interested in ( 1 , 2,3 or 5 days ) , and calculate how often you would be able to take the public transport on regular tickets , ot how many <URL> you would have to use . Example . A 2 day pass is 15.85 EUR . For a bit less than that , 15 EUR , you can buy 11 regular tickets ( 1 carnet and 1 single ticket ) . That 's a lot for two days , especially if you plan your sightseeing a bit rationally . And do n't let yourself fool by the discounts . Some are more sexy , some other are less sexy . Check precisely what the discounts are good for , check the prices . And check if you are interested in these at all ! Plan your sightseeing first , i.e. make a list of what your are interested in and see if that 's covered by the pass . Do n't do it the other way round . You might miss a lot !
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
When Kosovo grants Turkish citizens visa-free entry for short stays , it is a sign that they do n't plan to subject most entering Turks to greater scrutiny than what can reasonably be done on the fly at the border checkpoint . This has to mean that they do n't routinely demand extensive paperwork such as letters of invitation -- if they did , there would be a visa requirement so they had a chance to get a good look at it in peace and quiet . So unless you arouse more suspicion in the border guard than most other Turks do , what you will need is just your passport , and convincing answers to standard questions : What is the purpose of your trip ? Where will you stay ? When and how will you leave Kosovo again ? Be prepared to document your accommodation bookings , tickets for the journey back home , and that you have enough money for your expenses during the trip . ( if you think you do look suspicious , arm yourself with as much documentation as you can lay your hand on , and hope for the best ) .
As usual , ' best ' is not a good question ? Does that mean ' cheapest ' , ' fastest ' or ' best scenery ' ? It seems there is only one direct flight from Havana to San Jose , this is with <URL> , a one way fare can be found for $ 350 US . Alternatively you can fly to Cancun ( Mexico ) , Managua ( Nicaragua ) or Panama City and then take <URL> .
I did the same last year , I just printed the ticket page and took it along to Spain . No snail mail involved .
I did some research and collected various answers : From <URL> there are two possibilities : Air : As stated , access to Canaima National Park is by air to the village of Canaima , about 50 km away from the falls . From there , you take either a smaller plane and fly to an airstrip at Canaima Lagoon , or travel by river to the lagoon . From the lagoon , you hike to a view point of the falls . There are also daily flights via Puerto Ordaz connecting Canaima airstrip with the major cities of Venezuela . The airstrip is a short jeep-train ride from nearby Lodges . Check flights from your area to Caracas or other Venezuelan cities with connections to Ciudad Bolicar and Canaima . From this page , you can also browse hotels , rental cars , and special deals . Water : From Canaima , when the water is neither too high or too low , you can travel by motorized canoe , called curiara up the Carrao River , then the Churun river to an point where you can then hike through the jungle to the falls . The river portion takes about four hours , and you should allow an hour or more for the hike . Canoe access to Angel Falls is restricted to the rainy season , June to November . From <URL> Angel Falls is one of Venezuela 's top tourist attractions , though a trip to the falls is a complicated affair . The falls are located in an isolated jungle , and a flight from Puerto Ordaz or Ciudad Bolívar is required to reach Canaima camp , the starting point for river trips to the base of the falls . River trips generally take place from June to December , when the rivers are deep enough for the wooden curiaras used by the Pemon guides . During the dry season ( December to March ) there is less water seen than in the other months . Very interesting information can be found on <URL> . They do not only explain how to get there but also mention a price and duration . Similar information can be found on <URL> . They also explain in very detail how to get there .
Normally you being there in plenty of time should ensure you are the first-came , and excess passengers would be put on after the rest of you . However , this is Greyhound we 're talking about , and to further complicate , this is Thanksgiving , the day of the year rules just do n't apply ;) According to <URL> : As the ticket policy suggests , Greyhound does not assign you a seat when you buy a ticket . If you show up at 8 AM for your 8 AM bus , the bus may be full . If you show up at 7:30 AM and the bus line already has 55 people in it , you may not get to ride that bus . If you 're riding for your first time , you will get a good seat on your bus if you arrive an hour ahead of time , and will probably catch it ( unless you need to check bags ) if you arrive fifteen minutes ahead of time . For the expert , how early you show up can be calculated by four variables : ( 1 ) Are you checking bags ? ( 2 ) Is your bus " originating ? " ( 3 ) Is your departure station popular ? ( 4 ) Is the route popular ? If you 're checking bags , you will have to wait in line . Depending on station , you may have to wait in the general ticketing line . At peak times , there can be 30 people in the general ticketing line -- all of which have urgent needs . You do n't have a choice about waiting , so budget 15-30 minutes . An " originating " bus means that your bus will be empty when boarding begins . If your bus is originating , you can show up later , because more seats will be available . If your departure station is popular ( i.e. a large city ) , more people will be in line , so budget another 15 minutes . If the route is popular ( and most are , especially on the weekends and at night ) , you may wish to budget another 15-30 minutes . Your best situation is an originating bus , leaving from small town X , at 10 AM . Your worst situation is a North Hollywood bus originating in Los Angeles , CA going to San Francisco at 10 PM on a Friday night . So given all that , I 'd try and get there as early as you possibly can . Because after all , this is Thanksgiving , and you 'll already be thankful you have a seat ;)
This is a well-trod trail on the backpacker circuit , and <URL> , but here 's the outline : <URL> from Delhi to the end of the line at Gorakhpur , overnight , US$ 10-50 depending on class of sleeper Bus to border at Sunauli , one and half hours , ~ $ 2 Cross border on foot Bus to Kathmandu , 9-12 hours ( overnight buses available ) , ~ $ 6 So it 's certainly the cheaper option , as you can do the whole trip for $ 20 , or even less if you 're the kind of masochist who enjoys overnight travel in the train 's general section . As for " good scenery and cultural experience " , though , I 've yet to meet anybody who actually enjoyed the trip . Since there are so many goras traipsing through , the scammers are out in full force , the border towns are absolute shitholes , and the Nepali roads and buses are pretty awful with <URL> an all too regular occurrence . And yes , DEL allows transit without visa if you can connect directly to your flight to Kathmandu and check your bags through .
Well firstly most buses wo n't go directly to El Calafate . You 'll likely have to change buses , and likely will want to - it 's a long way ! However , a convenient stopping point could be Puerto Madryn ( Chubut ) . It 's a great little beach town , with the Valdez Peninsula - and I kid you not - you can sit on the hostel balcony and point at the whales as they come near the shore ! Some great seafood restaurants too . If you 're going to consider the bus , consider upgrading from Semi-cama to full-cama or cama-suite or whatever the bus company you choose calls it . Semi-cama is seats that partially recline . However for about $ 5 more from Puerto Madryn to Buenos Aires ( that 's the price difference it was for me ) you can upgrade to full-cama , which gives you a seat that folds down into a BED , as well as good food , and tv . If you 're on a strict budget do n't bother , but once I discovered that , wow , it 's so much better for the huge trips . In El Calafate , I also highly recommend the America Del Sur Hostel - it had a spectacular view over the town and Lago Argentina , and you can organise trips to the glacier from their reception ( we did a day tour to the glacier - it 's spectacular ) . Much of the flat part of Argentina is fairly boring scenery , but I liked the coastal route , and once you get into the mountains it 's great . You 'll spot guanacoes ( like llamas ) and rhea ( like ostrich ) and other animals . But I guess it depends on your preference , how you handle seriously-long bus trips , and how much time you have as well . Look into Andesmar ( my favourite ) , El Rapido ( sometimes cheaper ) , Omnilineas and Plusmar .
Sesame Street is currently filmed at the <URL> in Queens , which does not offer public tours ( though the <URL> is open to the public and located on the campus ) . According to the <URL> , Sesame Street is not filmed in front of a live studio audience and the set is not able to accommodate guests . There is a Sesame Street theme park called <URL> in Langhorne , Pennsylvania , about midway between Philadelphia and New York ( near Trenton , New Jersey ) , owned and operated by Sea World . Now , that is only for the original American version of Sesame Street . There are many different versions internationally , and some of those filming locations may allow visitors .
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
If you arrive at Terminal 1 on a through ticket , or have checked your luggage to final destination , or are travelling with hand luggage only , you should be able to do an airside transfer from terminal 1 . Terminal 5 is only for security checks for departing passengers and after passing security , all airside facilities actually exist at Terminal 3 , including departure gates , shops and airline lounges . This is the relevant information for <URL> . Note that there is no mention of Terminal 5 since the departures will be from the Terminal 3 G &amp; H gates . Here is a <URL> on Flyertalk which sounds similar to your situation , i.e. arriving on a domestic Alitalia flight and transferring to a flight to the USA . If you do need to collect luggage at Terminal 1 , you would exit landside and take relatively short walk to Terminal 3 , although there are additional shuttle buses that circulate from the long term parking areas to the terminals that you could take from Terminal 1 to Terminal 3 if walking is a problem .
end question
start question
How to visit Wieliczka salt mines and the Auschwitz KZ from Krakow ?
It 's possible to do both in one day , but I would n't recommend it - it 's a lot to take in , and makes for a very long day . There 's so much to see in Krakow old town , that it 's worth spreading them out and spending your down time on a city tour or just walking around trying random foods in old restaurants or seeing the performers in the main square , or just sitting in the parks . What I did can be read on my blog , so I 'll include the links : <URL> <URL> They are run by <URL> , and were pretty reasonable . Now , the reason I suggest a tour . For the mines , you 'll find that as an individual it 's possible to get out there ( see <URL> ) , but then you 'll have to find a tourist group to latch onto , as you ca n't explore them on your own . Also possible , you just have to ask around . For the Auschwitz and Birkenau tour , it 's one of the most depressing ( but important ) tours to do , and personally , I found it better to make some new friends on the tour to have someone to talk to about it . We had an Israeli guy with us who 'd had relatives at the site , and that was really interesting . But it 's quite a moving place , and I 'm glad I did n't do it alone , to put it simply . Also really recommend Greg and Tom 's Hostel , by the way - 3 min walk from the train station !
There are really dozens of tour operators that offers tours to the Salt Mines . I would recommend to use collect some flyers and compare the conditions . I personally can recommend the tour that is provided by the <URL> . They have an agreement with a tour operator that picks you up directly in front of the hostel and then drives you there in a comfortable minibus . After the tour you 're picked up at the mines and you can again leave the minibus directly in front of the hostel or in the old town center . The price was 10 Euro per person including everything , which I personally think is very reasonable . But we got a student discount of 50 % , so the normal price is a little bit higher . I assume that other tour operators have more or less the same offers .
If you just care about terrorist attacks or ISIS activities , I can say that here is totally safe ( at least now ) . Although , as I mentioned in another post , some regions in Sistan-Baluchestan are the exceptions because of drug smugglers and some terrorists as well . On the other hand , if you care about political issues and somethings that are related to the government , I have no clear idea . Usually the UK and US citizens have some problems . However , I have personally seen several UK tourists in Tehran that were content with Iran . And finally , obviously there are thieves here too . You must watch out your pocket .
I must admit that there is a lack of information about the possibility to visit the cittadella . After some search on the Internet I came out with <URL> ( again , only in Italian , sorry ) stating that the cittadella is visitable from Monday to Sunday . Moreover , in the description it is said that the place has been open to visitors since 1990 . This point is also supported by the fact that in the cittadella there is a museum of the weapons and uniforms of the Italian army .
It turns out that hotels are happy to receive mail for you before you arrive , provided you give them a heads-up first . I just bought my tickets from the Tigers ' <URL> , and had them send it to my hotel . I added my arrival date to the address , as " Lastname樣 ( 4月8日宿泊 ) " . The hotel got it fine . I did have to provide a Japanese phone number to the ticket purchasing website . My Japanese Skype number was n't accepted ( maybe because it has an area code specific to VoIP numbers ) . I used my friends ' number , but I imagine you could just use your hotel 's number ; it 's not like they got a call .
Via the <URL> , it is possible to book a bus from Berlin to Krakow for 29 EUR , even for a departure on a ( very ) short notice ( read : tomorrow ) . The price for a regular train ticket is 61 EUR . Eurolines will charge you about the same . The travel time by bus or train is 9 - 10 hours . By train you have to change once . The typical routing is via Warsaw . The plane is more expensive . Air Berlin has direct flights from Berlin to Krakow . One-way fares start at about 100 EUR , even for a departure at short notice ( in a week or so ) . Travel time is 1h20 . Regarding Poznan , it is an underrated destination in Poland . It 's definitely worth a stop . Note that all the trains from Warsaw to Berlin stop in Poznan too . It is indeed possible to travel on a night train from Poznan to Krakow . I do n't think that you will save a lot of money by doing that ( if any at all ) . The major advantage of the night train is the time saving . You can leave Berlin in the late afternoon and you will arrive in Krakow early in the morning . Traveling by day you will leave in the morning and arrive in the evening . On the other hand it can be pleasant to spend an evening in Krakow and sleep in a real bed .
It depends on what you consider ' special skills ' . With some excercise , paddling should be feasible for most people . For the English Channel , you can easily find operators and boat charterers offering planning support or equipment rent : <URL> Crossing the Øresund may not be much more than 5km ( depending on where you cross ) and can obviously be done with very simple equipment . Here 's a video of two Swedes crossing on stand up paddleboards : <URL>
For free , you ca n't miss <URL> . ( photo from <URL> ) The grounds themselves are beautiful just to walk around or for a photo-op ( including views of the Salt Lake Temple itself as well as reflecting pools and countless gardens ) but there are a <URL> to visit and/or tour , too . Some of the highlights : <URL> -- Two restaurants , tours , and a <URL> at the Legacy Theater . <URL> -- A home of Brigham Young ( second president of the LDS Church and first governor of Utah ) . The home is well-preserved and the tour is very interesting . It really gives you a feel for 19th century living ( of a statesman , of course ) . <URL> -- great view of the Salt Lake Valley from the observation deck of this 26-story building . <URL> <URL> -- the highlight is a beautiful replica of <URL> . Ensign Peak ( view from Ensign Peak , photo from <URL> ) <URL> has a great view and is a short and easy hike just minutes from downtown Salt Lake City . This is the Place park <URL> consists of a monument to the <URL> in the Salt Lake Valley , as well as a visitor 's center/shop and a village of preserved pioneer homes . There is a small admission fee .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
I actually almost answered this question in your other question :) . Simply put , Indian railways has a very very powerful backend development team ( their reservations were running fine with a cross country network when internet was still unheard of ) , however their front-end team is amateur at best . <URL> which is a reasonably good portal is not owned and operated by Indian Railways , this allows you to reserve your train tickets . However , your answer has to be <URL> , they use the data from Indian Railways website and so they are reliable ( 99 % of the times , but its easy to double check once you zone in on a specific route from the official site ) . They use google maps to demonstrate travel routes , show fares for each class , even link to live train arrival and departure , all using a simple ajax based interface . You just need to know the places you are going to and you are good to go . Finally , <URL> is surprisingly good for travel in India , when they introduced their services ( probably 4 years ago ) the first test I did was from a remote village ( where I worked with Indian Railways ) where the only mode of transport is a train and they had spot on results , I have been shocked by their accuracy many times ( including while trying to answer your previous question about Sambalpur ) .
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
Seurasaari is quite similar to Suomenlinna , only smaller . A straight circuit of the island on foot takes about an hour , but there are plenty of interesting old buildings to poke your nose into ( most free , a few not ) , a couple of nice rustic cafes and even two nudist beaches ( one for men , one for women ) , so it 's easy to spend half a day here as well . Most visitors opt to get there on bus 24 from the city , but my favorite way of getting to Seurasaari is on foot , since it 's a nice , easy walk and there are a whole bunch of interesting places along the way . Here 's a half-day itinerary I wrote a while back for Wikivoyage : <URL> And oh , do n't try to cover both islands in one day , that 's too much . If you have to pick only one , my guests have usually found Seurasaari to be the more interesting / " authentically Finnish " of the two . And while neither is particularly enjoyable if the weather is poor , Suomenlinna 's exposed position means it 's actively terrible if it 's cold , windy and/or rainy .
From <URL> Can a Visa Waiver Program traveler with more than one passport travel to the United States on the passport that he or she did not use when applying for a travel authorization ? No . Each Visa Waiver Program traveler must have an approved travel authorization for the passport they plan to use before they travel to the United States . If a traveler obtains a new passport , they must submit a new travel authorization application in ESTA using the new passport . A processing fee will be charged for each new application submitted .
I was in SEA at the beginning of the year . Firstly , good on you for not flying south . It 's a very expensive and unnecessary flight for a trip that can very easily be made on land . When it comes to VIP buses in South East Asia , there is n't usually a big difference , but it does depend on the price . Sometimes a VIP bus may give you better seating , A/C , only other tourists/foreigners on the bus and/or it could be faster , as some of the normal sleepers pick up a lot of locals along the way who sit in the aisles . However , that being said , the VIP buses can be exactly the same . With the trip from Vientiance to Pakse I would probably just get the normal sleeper-bus unless there is a major price difference , which , in that case , probably means the normal is full of locals and will be a less comfortable ride .
So I 've just been there and back , and I 'm posting a bit more info in case it 's useful to someone else . The single trip using public transport does take something between 2.5 and 3 hours , and cost in total between $ 18 - $ 22 ( single trip ) , but is definitely doable and convenient , particularly if you are travelling alone and with not much luggage . First one has to get from the airport ( IAD ) to Washington D.C. For these either the <URL> ( to West Falls Church ) or the <URL> ( to Rosslyn ) seem convenient . I decided to go for the Flyer bus , which costs $ 18 round trip ( you can return at anytime within one month ) and runs every half an hour ( on the 15 and 45 every hour ) . On retrospect , the Metrobus might be a ( slightly ) better choice , as then I would get at least a chance to " see " a bit of DC since Rosslyn is closer to the center of the city , but anyway . Either way , now one has to cross the city using the metro , most likely using the Orange line to New Carrollton . Make sure to have small notes to <URL> on the machine . How it works is that you look up your destination on a list on the machine , identify the fare that you must pay ( chances are that you have to pay the peak fare and add an extra $ 1 for the paper ticket ) , select that amount on the machine and enter then the bank notes . From West Falls Church to New Carrollton I paid $ 6.75 ( and the same when coming back ) . At New Carrollton you can then take the <URL> to Annapolis which costs $ 5 a ride . This one was a bit tricky , first you have to exit the metro station through the south exit onto a big parking lot . You will see several bus stops , with maps and clearly marked signs of the bus routes stopping there ; but 921 does not stop on any of those . It stops at some at some nondescript " kiss and go " area within the parking lot , only some small numbered stickers " 921 " will give you an indication that this is the place to wait . The small white bus/van itself is also rather nondescript , it may or may not say " Annapolis " on the side . Anyway , the people around and the drivers were typically nice and helpful , so ask if in doubt . It might also come handy to have with you <URL> , as this bus does n't run often , and you might have to wait some time . The return trip works easy as well , following the same instructions in reverse order . It might only be helpful to know that the bus stops for 921 in Annapolis are similarly rather nondescript , sometimes the only indication is a sign with the YTS logo . Also the bus might be late ( once I waited some 10-15 minutes ) , so allow yourself some extra time for the travel , do n't make too tight a plan if you need to catch a plane . As I said , although it takes a bit of time , the trip is somewhat cheap and convenient . Specially if you are travelling light . I did ask at the counter of the SuperShuttle , but the price for a single trip would have been of $ 70 . This might make more sense only if you are travelling as part of a big party and you can split the costs among yourselves .
All of those places are touristy , and as such they 're completely used to seeing tourists wearing all of the described clothing . One thing to note , however , is if you 're taking the train down to Aswan/Luxor overnight , it can get rather chilly in the desert at which point you will most certainly want more than just t-shirts and shorts . In fact I had my sleeping bag on as our airconditioning was stuck on freezing all night , but hopefully that 's rare ;) In general most of our group had long shorts and t-shirts , although the women would put a shawl on occasionally , and certainly when entering religious sites like the Mosque in Cairo , it 's advisable that you will need to be more covered up than that - no bare shoulders , no shorts , etc. .
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
According to the <URL> site , both Canadian and US citizens are eligible ( and only US/Canada citizens ) . The program is only for the Canadian border ( northern land crossings , US immigration checkpoints in Canadian airports and NEXUS kiosks at various marine entry points ) . It costs $ 50 to get the card , you do n't need to pay to use it . It replaces your passport for land and marine crossings between the US and Canada . Air travel between US and Canada still requires a Passport , although a Nexus card can expedite customs clearance in airports . For US citizens and green card holders ( and citizens of Mexico and Holland ) there 's also a <URL> program , which is similar in nature . It appears that the programs are being connected/merged , but I 'm not sure what 's going on exactly .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
end question
start question
Does AirBaltic require you to print boarding pass before arriving at airport to avoid extra costs ?
I found some answers at their website at <URL> : They only have self-service kiosks in Riga : Currently available to our passengers travelling from Riga airport , self-check-in kiosks allow you to check in at the airport free of charge . Also , they do have a 10 EUR airport check-in fee , but that <URL> " passengers who have already checked in online , via mobile check-in or at a self service check-in kiosk " . They <URL> that they 'll print it for free as long as you have checked in online : Hello ! We 're sorry for late response . If you 've checked in online , you can get a boarding pass at the check-in desk free of charge . Anyway , it looks like their <URL> is a better option if you happen to be in possession of a mobile phone , as you avoid queuing at the check-in desk : A : With airBaltic mobile check-in you will save time and money , escape queues and the EUR 10 check-in fee at the airport . It gives you flexibility and the possibility to check in on your way to the airport . Please pay attention to the check-in deadline . You enter booking ref and surname ( whether or not you 've already done online check-in ) and get a " mobile boarding pass " with QR code to show at the gate : Edit : Last weekend I used the mobile boarding pass on four separate airBaltic flights , so I can confirm that there is no need to print anything by yourself .
I am not sure which sites you have tried , but if you buy your ticket directly from the <URL> , you seem to get everything you want : If you order a seat reservation , you can also select exactly which seat you want . You will be shown a drawing of the carriage , so that you can see where the tables are and which seats are free . You can have the ticket sent to an e-mail address , or also get a reservation code to pickup your ticket at a DSB ticket counter or one of their ticket machines in Copenhagen .
Motion sickness comes about as a result of a disconnect between movement which you think you 're seeing and the movement your body feels . Eg on a plane it looks like you 're still , but your body can feel bumps and jumps . Or in a car when you 're reading , the page stays still or maybe moves up and down with bumps , but you 're going around corners and the like . According to Wiki , over-the-counter and prescription medications are readily available , such as Dramamine ( dimenhydrinate ) , Stugeron ( cinnarizine ) , and Bonine/Antivert ( meclozine ) . Scopolamine is effective and is sometimes used in the form of transdermal patches ( 1.5 mg ) or as a newer tablet form ( 0.4 mg ) . The selection of a transdermal patch or scopolamine tablet is determined by a doctor after consideration of the patient 's age , weight , and length of treatment time required . Ginger root is a natural alternative you can try as well . But funnily , one of the simplest solutions is to close your eyes . It 's counterintuitive ( to me at least ) but by doing so you remove any conflict in perceived movement between your eyes and body , and your brain switches to just listening to felt movement . As a result , the confusion ceases and your body starts to recover . Hope that helps !
It means you should confirm your flight by 48 hours prior to departure . In reality your window is likely to be from a few hours before that point to a few hours after . And it can be essential for some flights , as if you do n't confirm then they may allocate your seats to someone else .
There is <URL> . I used it to plan a trip some time ago , but it is very shiny and therefor quite limited . But maybe you can use it for your needs ...
Coming off the planes you come in the same halls as those going to the planes use . All of the airside that is ' non Schengen ' is connected , if by a long ( ish ) walkway . That means that the first to arrive can go to the gate used by the second to arrive and meet there . Although at most of the airside space is open , there might be some parts of the airport still locked off by security for the whole of the area . In that case you will be able to meet just outside of the security check for the area of the airport . Arriving plane gates are not announced so you will have to have your phones at the ready , call as soon as the gate is known . And sometimes passengers are bussed into the airport and might arrive at a door very close to passport control . If you ask your flight attendants , it is likely that they can include the information in the ' welcome to Amsterdam ' message , but otherwise you can see it on the outside of the airport buildings as well as on the signs within the halls as soon as you come into the buildings . Remember that you might have to go to different locations of the airport to collect your luggage . You do not need to use a particular part of passport control , and you are free to walk from one set of luggage carousels to the other set , and you are allowed to pass out of the secure zone at any of the exits . Both of your flights are from outside the Schengen area . If either of you had come from within the Schengen area , you would earliest be able to meet at the luggage carousels . This answer is from personal experience , having used Schiphol many times , but for within Schengen as out of Schengen flights . And I have met my friend in luggage reclaim on some airports myself . If you have people meeting you outside the secure zone , you might need to call them which exit you use ( based on which luggage you collect last ) or arrange to meet them at a set point in the airport . Edit : Based on the answer by @EcD , the area at the top of the stairs/lifts to passport control , on the side of the airport where the flight from China is using the gate , is the most likely point . But I am not sure as I never arrived from a ' non clean ' area . Luggage reclaim will certainly be possible , as those are for all flights in two huge halls .
<URL> applies : No , you do not need a visa for going from the US to India via Frankfurt airport ( or vice versa ) , as long as you stay in the transit area and have a connection in less than 12 hours . <URL> , emphasis mine : Indian nationals can Transit without Visa via FRA or MUC if holding a valid visa for the destination and a valid Visa for any of the following countries : Bulgaria , Canada , Cyprus , Ireland , Japan , Liechtenstein , Romania , UK and USA ( the approval notice I-797 is not valid document for visa free airport transit ) . <URL> confirms this as well .
Confusingly , there 's another option if you want to visit Takayama and Kanazawa : The <URL> , which is n't listed in the <URL> , but on another page called <URL> , which has the logos of JR Central and JR West , which was linked to from the site of <URL> . That was the option I chose .
There 's no single answer to this , as different hotels have different policies . In general most hotels will be happy to store mail and small packages for you for a short time . Most will ask that you mark that fact you 're a guest as a part of the address , and I 've had at least 2 hotels that requested that my arrival date also be listed as a part of the address . Some hotels will charge you a fee for this service , especially if what you 're receiving is anything more than just a standard letter . Normally the item will be held for you at the front desk/concierge ( often with a note on your booking so that they know it 's there when you check-in ) , although at some hotels they will store it in the " Business Center " which can cause issues if you 're planning to arrive outside of the business centers hours . The best plan is to either email or call the hotel in advance to confirm their local policies - I 've never had a hotel not respond to such an email with the relevant details , plus you end up with a record of what they told you in case there 's any problems later on ( such as one hotel where I was told there was no charge , but then they tried to charge me when I got there ! )
Assuming that Adria Airways closes boarding as usual 20-30 minutes prior to departure and you do check-in in advance , you have 45-55 minutes left for security clearance and finding the gate , what usually is more than enough time at Frankfurt Airport . You 'd also be fine if the train is 10 or 15 minutes delayed .
Everything you need to know is on the airport 's <URL> . The short answer is yes , easily . The fastest , but most expensive , way is just to take a taxi . Follow the signs to the taxi rank , should take around 20 to 30 mins to get into town and budget around 25 pounds one way . You can pick up any black cab on the way back . Trams are 8 pounds return , run every ten minutes or so ( officially every 8 to 12 minutes ) and go down Princes Street which I 'm guessing is the <URL> you wish to go to . You can get off on the terminus or just after it turns off Princes Street . Journey time is around 35 minutes . Similarly the Airlink bus is 50p cheaper , takes about as long , runs about as often and stops at Waverly which is a short walk . There are local buses that are much cheaper , but they take a long route and stop a lot , I doubt it 's worth it . So , even if you want to get back to the airport two hours before departure you 'd still easily manage two and a half to three hours in the city . Time enough to go shopping and grab a bite to eat . Of course you 'll have to clear security when you return to the airport , and this can take a looong time during peak hours . They 've redone the security area so it 's faster now but it can get very busy . Also if you 're pulled over for further screening you may need to wait in a queue for that . Basically I would n't try cutting it too close . I 'm also assuming that you can legally enter the UK . I guess any big bags will left on the plane but for what it 's worth there 's a <URL> service at Edinburgh airport . There 's also one at <URL> but the airport one is cheaper .
I live in a very corrupt country - Ukraine . Let me give you some advice . First , try to avoid looking like stranger . Try to look like the locals . That is often difficult , I know . It 's the only advice about how to avoid corrupt police . They often search for strangers just to get some money from them , because strangers are easy meat . All the other advice is how to deal with bribes and police . The key is your behaviour . In corrupt countries it is very important to behave like you are a very important authority . Corrupt policemen are afraid of their bosses only . You need to make them think that you can contact local authorities or your embassy to ask for help . This where the second tip comes from ... Take your local embassy phone numbers with you . Call them whenever any problem with bribes and corruption happens . In my experience that mostly helps , however it depends on the embassy . All developed countries have very good embassies and own citizen 's protection mechanisms . If you are forced to give bribes to police , then ask the police officers to help you to avoid all future problems with other officers . They are mostly happy to help you with that . It 's like a deal , you give him a bribe - he helps you in the future . Take their phone numbers , for example , in order to call them when the next police officer harasses you . I believe it is very important to have an interpreter with you . Without one you 'll be harassed too often . And make sure the interpreter also behaves like alpha-male . The bribe value for strangers is usually 10 times higher then same for locals . So , you can bargain with them . For example , a $ 30 USD bribe could be $ 3 USD . Never give your IDs or papers to police . Just show your documents and refuse to give them . That works in all ex-USSR countries . Try to never leave your car to talk to police . Talk through the window only . If they frighten you with a gun - they have broken a very serious law . Unfastening a holster , talking about their guns - that 's what I 'm talking about . Call the embassy immediately . However , I 've never heard of a policeman who broke that law . Never run away from police . In this case you can get into a lot of trouble . This is not a complete list , of course . But I tried to make it as descriptive as possible . To summarize , I 'd like to remind that your dominating behaviour is the key .
Correos de México , run by Sepomex , is the national postal service if you 're sending a postcard . They have an office in the domestic arrivals area of Terminal 1 . Walk to the planta baja ( ground floor ) and look for the pink sign in Sala/Hall A , close to Puerta 2 -- they sell color postcards there too . Happy Travels ! Post office at Terminal 1 , domestic arrivals . Photo by <URL> , February 2013 .
Overall , this is seen to be abusive because you are attempting to get more leave than was issued to you ( whether you intended to or not ) . The controlling technical reference for your question is found in Paragraph 30C of the <URL> which says ... An Immigration Officer may cancel an entry clearance which is capable of having effect as leave to enter if the holder arrives in the United Kingdom before the day on which the entry clearance becomes effective or if the holder seeks to enter the United Kingdom for a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance . You would be in breach on both conditions . What this means is that the Immigration Officer has the right to cancel your entry clearance and send you back to Australia to make a fresh application . They can also contact your sponsor and tell them you are attempting to abuse your YMS visa . I have seen it happen . The IO does not have to remove you if you have a convincing excuse . Acclimating yourself to the UK would be a weak excuse ( i.e. , " a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance " ) and looking for a flat will raise alarm bells ... Depending upon where you are located in the UK vis-a-vis the on-going roll out of the new ' right-to-rent ' regulations may affect the legality of a tenancy agreement . So while your strategy is not illegal , it is likely to be seen as abusive without a really good reason . And if they are not satisfied with your excuse , they can remove you . If they let you in on 10 August , you will need to leave the UK on 10 August two years hence to avoid overstaying ( even if your visa says 16 August ) . Update ... In commentary , you added that you hold a YMS visa and that you have ( prudently ) discussed the strategy with your sponsor . Your sponsor thinks a channel hopping strategy may work ; I 'm not necessarily in agreement and suggest they confirm it with their solicitor . For your second question , about asking the consulate to change your start date , it depends upon the information in your certificate . They may decide you need a new certificate or may adjust your start date . It 's impossible to accurately predict without seeing what your sponsor sent you .
No , you do n't need a visa to visit the US . A French citizen can visit for 90 days for business or leisure without obtaining a visa . What you need is a travel authorization ( " ESTA " ) , that you can apply for online . You can apply at the <URL> . There is a $ 14 fee .
There are locations that fly to LHR that do not conform to international norms regarding international safety . Lagos , Nigeria , for example , does not conform to certain protocols , and Therefore is not considered secure . Rather than ferreting out individual flights , it is considered prudent simply to screen all passengers again .
TL ; DR : Apparently , with your current route , you can not benefit much from the JR East pass . The <URL> has a pretty handy map which shows exactly what part is covered and what kind of trains you can choose from . Unlimited travel on local , limited express and express trains including Shinkansens on the following rail company lines : JR East Lines ( including BRT * ) Izu Kyuko Line Hokuetsu Kyuko Railway Hokuhoku Line Aoimori Railway IGR Iwate Galaxy Railway Tokyo Monorail Sendai Airport Transit Tokyo Waterfront Area Rapid Transit Rinkai Line The following limited express trains that directly run between the JR East lines and Tobu Railway lines : the Nikko , the Spacia Nikko , the Kinugawa , and the Spacia Kinugawa . Also , the local trains ( including rapid trains ) between Shimo-imaichi and Tobu > nikko/Kinugawa-onsen Stations . Notes : * Bus rapid transit . The JR EAST PASS is not valid for the Tokaido Shinkansen as that is operated by a different rail company . The JR EAST PASS is not valid for JR buses . Judging from the <URL> you can not reach Fuji , Kamakura , Nagoya . You can reach Nikko tho . I do n't know how strict your plan is but I would consider buying the JR pass ( full ) because it gives you way more flexibility and it 's not much more expensive than the east only pass .
There are trains to Schiphol every hour through the night , it 's the Heerlen end of the trip that make it difficult . So you could first go to Utrecht , sleep there and catch a train in the morning . Or go all the way to Leiden or Amsterdam by train on Saturday afternoon and take a train , bus or taxi on Sunday morning . Depending on the type of accommodation/level of comfort , it should be possible to find cheaper ho ( s ) tel or B&amp;B in those cities than at the airport . You would also have more time to sleep in the morning than if you were to take your own car or a long-distance train during the night .
How does it work ? You go and stay in the queue for the taxi , usually just outside the terminal . When it 's your turn , you get inside the taxi and tell the driver your destination . And than you ride in ( sometimes smelly ) taxi for a while ( for a long while ) and eventually you get to your destination . How can I recognize it ? You wo n't miss it . There will be signs with directions , as well as the sign where the queue starts . Also , there is usually quite a lot of people queuing for the taxi . How can I recognize a legit taxi ? Although it never happened to me , some people may ask you if you need a taxi INSIDE the airport terminal . Avoid them , they are not legit . Head to the exit , search for a man or a woman with a little printer and dressed in uniform . ( credits to @Napolux for the information ) Once you are in official taxi queue you do n't really have to worry about taxi being legit , but you can still check taxi medallion . It will look similar to this and will be attached to the bonnet ( aka hood if you are American ) of the car . Additionally , there will be numbers inside of the taxi . <URL> You can check the number here : <URL> How much will it cost to take the taxi from JFK to Manhattan ? Is there a fixed fare ? There is a fixed fare , JKF to Manhattan is $ 52 + tolls + tips . Payable by card or cash .
Having done this , I can confirm I needed no more than about an hour to get through security and exit immigration - although I was travelling through the " business " lane for both ( not in Business , but I have OneWorld Sapphire ) . Mumbai seemed very efficient . If I were doing the journey again , I would arrive 2 hours before , just in case .
end question
start question
Renting a motorbike from a private person in Indonesia ?
Suggestion If you can not speak Indonesian , it is better for you to be always accompanied with an Indonesian you trust when making any contract . The hotel staffs might be the best choice because they can speak both Indonesian and English . As giving tips is common in Indonesia , just give them about 25,000 rupiahs for a 30 minute task . It should be enough to make them happy . :-) It is also better to mention the tips in advance so they get excited . Main answer Every motorcycle in Indonesia has both STNK ( Surat Tanda Nomor Kendaraan ) and BPKB ( Buku Pemilik Kendaraan Bermotor ) documents . When riding motorcycle , we need to bring the original STNK and driving licence . Keep the BPKB at home . As a result , when you rent a motorcycle , you must get the original STNK . You can not get the BPKB because it must be kept by the owner . The STNK looks like the following figure . How can you determine whether it is original or counterfeit ? It is a bit difficult . Even though registered number written in STNK agrees to the number plate , the STNK might not be original . So what can we do ? The most important thing you have to remember is the person from who you rent the motorcycle . Just take a picture with him/her . Cheese ... Making a copy of his/her ID card is common procedure . Please check the photograph . Unfortunately , the ID card might also be counterfeited .
Taking Complimentaries Home I would say that it all boils down to how cheap you want to look , in the eyes of the hotel management . If you do n't care , and probably you should n't , then there are some things you can take with you upon check-out . Taking Consumables As a general rule I would say : you can take anything that is single-serving . For the purpose of this answer , the definition of single-serving includes anything that , if opened/used , can not be re-used by the next guest . Hence an incomplete list would include : soap bars , shampoos , sewing kits , shaving sets , shower caps , slippers , shoe buffing kits , chocolates , etc. . Most of these items are often prey of serial collectors , in particular shampoo bottles and slippers . Hotel rooms often also include branded material like pens , pencils , notepads , postcards , and the like . These can be considered as marketing material . Every time you use the hotel 's pen , for example , you will indirectly be advertising the brand . It is probably safe to assume that the hotel management will be OK with you taking such items with you when you leave . The mini-bar is a completely different story . You can safely assume that anything in the mini-bar will be chargeable . Some hotels however offer complimentary water bottles to their guests . When in doubt , ask . Recycling Plastic Toiletry Containers You could also be fighting the recycling crusade , and using your ecological struggle within to justify yourself when taking shampoo bottles . According to <URL> : I was shocked to learn that the vast majority of hotels in the US have no recycling program , meaning that untold millions of these plastic bottles end up in landfills each year . Leave Towels , Linen , and Furniture However , you can not take anything that is not single-serving . This includes towels , bathrobes , coat hangers , sheets , pillow cases , etc. . Towels and linen can be washed and re-used by other guests . Taking them would be considered stealing . You can not of course take anything that is part of the furniture , or the design of the room . <URL>
Not all of them do . It definitely depends on which site you use , and what style of accommodation you are after . Generally , people going on holiday often have someone with them - a significant other , so often it 's based on 2 people sharing . Especially vacation prices . However , if you 're looking for say , hostels , it 's on a per-person basis ( eg <URL> ) . And if you 're looking at hotels for a single person , <URL> allows you to sort on a per-single-person room for prices , which I 've found useful in the past .
I walked from the hostel zone near the Independence Monument to the immigration office , opposite the airport ( a long way , not recommended for people less crazy than me ) . Apparently a tuk-tuk would be about $ 9 / $ 10 but we discovered there is a comfortable air-conditioned city bus to the airport for KHR 1,500 ( 37 and a half cents ! ) which runs along Confederation de la Russie from the Night Market . This is new since late 2014 . At 2pm , the very friendly staff gave me a single-sided single-page form which was simple to fill out . One passport photo was required , which I had with me . The office was not busy , just a few others . After handing in the form I had to wait 15 to 20 minutes for the application to be lodged , then I had to pay USD 30 for which I was given a receipt . I was told to come back in seven days to pick up my passport . This might not be the usual length of time since Chinese New Year is this week , <URL> . The office is open from 8am to 4.30 pm with a lunch break between 12 noon and 2pm . As mentioned on many forums , tourist visas can be extended one time only for one month only . Much of the other information on most forums seems to be FUD . The staff were very friendly and happy and helpful . I was n't given the runaround . There was no apparent bureaucracy or complicated processes . The form is simple to fill out . Everything is clear . There were no bribes or mysterious extra fees . The fee is $ 30 ( my guesthouse quoted me $ 45 or $ 46 I believe . ) So including a tuk-tuk ride there and back to apply and another ride there and back to pick up the passport could be up to 4 x $ 10 , so cheaper to get an agent to do it . But if you take the city bus it only adds up to $ 1.50 for all four trips . Another option is to go on a motorbike taxi , which might only be $ 2 per trip . If you 're a traveller on a tight budget it 's definitely cheaper to do it yourself by taking the bus . If you 're an expat with an income the extra USD $ 15 might be nothing to you . The only factor remaining could be the processing time . At this point I do n't know if it always takes seven days . I 'll double check how long the guesthouse says it takes through them . Not having your passport for this one week may make it tricky to change accommodation or do a trip while you 're waiting as most hotels and guesthouses want your passport at check-in . I noted down my passport and visa numbers , so hopefully this will be enough for checking in . Seven days after applying , I returned to the Visa Service office a few minutes after 2pm as requested . This time they were a little busier but still very happy and polite . I sat and waited in the air conditioning I badly needed until my name was called and I was handed my passport with a new full-page visa of a different colour with departure date one calendar month later than my original visa ( not 30 days later - it 's February ) . There were no additional fees or hassles . Since they were busy and the place was being closed for some high level meeting I did not have the chance to ask the prices of extensions of different durations .
You can certainly rent a car in Basel and drive around . I have driven with my European license in the States without any problem , so I asume you can drive in Europe as if you are in the US . There are certain differences in trafic rules , but if you drive carefully you 'll be okay . Having said that , I would recommend the public transport system in Basel . When you checkin at your hotel you will be handed a tourist day pass for each day that you will be staying in Basel , which will allow you to travel around Basel on the bus and trams . The price is covered by the tourist tax that is paid through your hotel bill . To get from the airport to you hotel , it enough to show proof of your hotel reservation to take the bus . When I stayed in Basel , I got directions from my hotel by email on which busses to take to get from the airport to my hotel . Be aware that Basel airport is actually in France . A road corridor is created to drive to Switzerland . Before going through the exit , make sure you take the Swiss exit , otherwise you 'll end up in France .
In general , you can find information about what items are permitted on the flight on both the website of the airline ( they will have a restricted items page ) and on the website of the relevant athourity who would control things for the country you are flying from . As you do n't give that here , I 'm going to take the information from the <URL> , which under the category " Sporting Goods " says : Bows and crossbows | Hand luggage : No . | Checked Luggage : Yes . with no additional restrictions . So you will probably be OK . If I were you however , I 'd enquire about the legality of possessing and transporting these items in your destination country - archery is a fairly common hobby , so I doubt they are illegal anywhere , but some places may restrict how they are transported and where they can be removed from containers .
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
Suggestion If you can not speak Indonesian , it is better for you to be always accompanied with an Indonesian you trust when making any contract . The hotel staffs might be the best choice because they can speak both Indonesian and English . As giving tips is common in Indonesia , just give them about 25,000 rupiahs for a 30 minute task . It should be enough to make them happy . :-) It is also better to mention the tips in advance so they get excited . Main answer Every motorcycle in Indonesia has both STNK ( Surat Tanda Nomor Kendaraan ) and BPKB ( Buku Pemilik Kendaraan Bermotor ) documents . When riding motorcycle , we need to bring the original STNK and driving licence . Keep the BPKB at home . As a result , when you rent a motorcycle , you must get the original STNK . You can not get the BPKB because it must be kept by the owner . The STNK looks like the following figure . How can you determine whether it is original or counterfeit ? It is a bit difficult . Even though registered number written in STNK agrees to the number plate , the STNK might not be original . So what can we do ? The most important thing you have to remember is the person from who you rent the motorcycle . Just take a picture with him/her . Cheese ... Making a copy of his/her ID card is common procedure . Please check the photograph . Unfortunately , the ID card might also be counterfeited .
As of september last year , I was able to withdraw cash with both VISA and MasterCard from ATMs in indonesia , both were swipe cards . I did n't pay directly at point of sale using any of my cards since that incurs a fee for both of my cards . However I expect swipe cards to be supported anywhere for the foreseeable future since even in my home country ( germany ) , I have not yet seen any place where EMV is supported , but swipe is not .
Apparently , it 's complicated . The safest border crossing is Puerto Carreño to Puerto Ayacucho by boat . Before you go in Colombia , do these : DIAN ( Colombian customs department ) to make sure all your car papers are in order . Venezuelan consulate to get a form with all the current requisites for crossing your vehicle ( <URL> ) . Later [ the site which I am referencing from ] learned that we needed two additional papers : a Venezuelan third-party insurance ( easy to obtain , more on that below ) and an invoice of the purchase of our car . Immigration to stamp your passport . SIJIN department of Police , to get a VIN rub of your car 's chassis number . Then buy a Venezuelan insurance and go to SENIAT , Venzuelan customs . Once done , boat over , then 100 kms to Puerto Ayacucho to get your passport stamped ( three months for Europeans , free of charge ) . Reference from <URL>
Have you considered the Belgian <URL> or <URL> ? It is a really affordable formula to travel through Belgium . For less then 8 Euro ( depends on your age ) you can travel through all of Belgium . With this card a Interrail for only France might suffice . A disadvantage of both passes is that you need to buy them in Belgium at the station
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
What you are asking is hard . The insurance prices go considerably up for drivers younger than 24 , and for new drivers . From looking online it seems that the big rental companies will not rent out cars to people younger than 24 or who have had a driver 's license for less than 2 years . I was able to find at least 3 smaller companies who will rent cars to new ( and young ) drivers for a higher rate . <URL> <URL> <URL> I have seen that there are other companies which rent to new drivers , discussed in various forums , you should google for " השכרת רכב לנהג חדש " ( car rental for a new driver ) and " השכרת רכב לנהג צעיר " ( car rental for a young driver ) . Knowing Hebrew would come a long way to help you read the forum posts , or you could try and rely on Google Translate .
Yes , as a tourist <URL> , but you will also need to get an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) . In India you can get this from your local RTO office , procedures will vary slightly but <URL> .
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
Yes : more specifically , the staff canteens at the airport are open to the public , serving authentic and tasty Singaporean fare at rock-bottom prices ! Despite the name " canteen " , these are mini-hawker centres with a dozen or so independently run stalls each specializing in specific dishes/cuisines . There are at least two of these . The one you 'll never find by accident is next to Terminal 2 : head out from Customs , turn left , cross the road , enter the carpark ( 2A ) and take the elevator up to level 3M , which is marked " Staff Canteen " . Here 's the illustrated journey , photos mine : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> The less exciting one is in the air-conditioned shopping mall below Terminal 3 , between the MRT station and arrivals .
If you do n't buy insurance through the rental car company , and have no coverage through travel insurance , credit cards , or your home auto insurance , then the only liability insurance you will have is the minimum coverage the rental car company <URL> in most states . The minimum liability insurance you must have , by law , in Texas is detailed <URL> , along with other helpful information about car insurance in the US : The current minimum liability limits are $ 30,000 for each injured person , up to a total of $ 60,000 per accident , and $ 25,000 for property damage per accident . This basic coverage is called 30/60/25 coverage . This describes liability insurance , which is mandatory insurance that covers you for damages you may cause to other people or property while driving . Note that this limit is very low . It is quite possible to do far more damage than this while driving , and you may be sued for the difference . Remember that medical costs in the US are expensive ; a car accident victim can easily run up a hospital bill far more than $ 30,000 . In the unfortunate event of a fatal accident or one that leads to serious long-term disability where you are found to be at-fault , you could incur significant liability . It is not uncommon for rental car companies , <URL> , to offer $ 1,000,000 in supplemental liability insurance . The rental car company , or a third-party , will offer to sell you supplemental liability insurance , which will increase these limits and allow you to better protect yourself . Separately , there 's insurance for the car itself . You will not have any such insurance unless you purchase some , whether from the rental car company ( CDW or LDW , which is n't strictly insurance , but is the rental car company agreeing you 're not responsible for damage to their car ) or a third-party . If the car is damaged or destroyed , stolen while in your possession , filled with flood water , dented in a hailstorm , or spontaneously combusts , whether your fault or not , you are responsible for paying for it . You might be able to recover costs from someone else 's insurance if they hit you and they 're at fault ( assuming they have insurance ) , but the rental car company will come after you to pay up . They 'll also charge you for the loss in revenue they incur while the car is being repaired . Unless you 're prepared to pay for the car on the spot , insurance is a good idea . In addition , the rental car company may offer accidental medical and/or death insurance to cover you and your passengers . This is likely already handled by your travel insurance and may be unnecessary . They also may offer Personal Effects Coverage , which will pay you if your property is stolen from the car . Again , this may already be handled under your travel insurance and is best avoided by not leaving property unattended in your car . The New York Times has a <URL> to the options that may prove useful .
There is , as of now , no general solution for any places , particularly since public transport data is not always freely available , <URL> . For places where public transport data is available , there are sites that let you do draw areas of what you can visit . <URL> has a decent number of cities from all over the world . Note that it may not have access to the complete public transport data ( see e.g. @Gagravarr 's comment ) . <URL> works for Germany , Switzerland , and Austria only , and is able to provide overlays of points of interest . It " knows " all public transport stops in these countries , as far as I can tell , and is thus quite reliable .
There are <URL> beers ( 6 Belgian , 1 Dutch ) . From Gent , your best bets are Westvleteren , Westmalle or Chimay . None are easily reachable . To Westvleteren you get the train to Poperinge , for Westmalle Antwerp is your best bet and for Chimay you need to go to Charleroi . From the stations onwards you are depending on either a taxi or the ( infrequent ) buses . Remember that trappists are typically brewed in utmost silence requiring secluded areas ;) Personally I think the trip is not worth the effort . In passing , perhaps , but as a specific destination , I am not so sure . What you might want to consider is <URL> , which is very nice small town close to the French border . It has the St <URL> If it 's all about beer , Gent has a lot to offer . My favourite one is <URL> .
' Expensive ' is relative . That said , a quick search on <URL> saw me get prices for under 500 euros for ten days . Still not very pleasant , but better than 1100 euros . Your question is really asking why Iceland is so expensive , as the relatively high cost of things in Iceland is not limited to just car rentals . Numbeo shows that the cost of living <URL> is about 30 % higher than <URL> . In addition , the cost of getting a car to Iceland and maintaining a car in Iceland will be significantly higher than doing the same on the European mainland : cars need to be shipped farther , in small numbers and suffer from much more corrosive weather . Furthermore , because it 's not as likely that small cars are too usable in Iceland , outside of the city , because weather and road conditions can be quite harsh , it 's more likely that the smallest models available in the Netherlands will not be available in Iceland . So , based on the above points , it would be reasonable to expect the cost of renting a car in Iceland to be significantly higher .
end question
start question
How can a traveler with a green card but no ability to get a passport fly to Mexico ?
Visa typically go in ( or are used in conjunction with ) a travel document ( that 's actually an explicit requirement in countries I am familiar with , I do n't know Mexican law but official websites suggest it 's the same there , see below ) . So even if you somehow got a visa , that would n't solve the passport problem . But having a green card should exempt you from any Mexican visa requirement so at least the visa should not be an issue , the travel document is . The <URL> indicates that travelers require a " Passport or valid identification and travel that is valid under international law " . If you ca n't get a passport , that would mainly leave the <URL> and the <URL> . In the US , <URL> but not the former ( see comment ) . The US also issues something called a <URL> but as far as I can tell , it 's just some ad hoc document that would allow the person to reenter the US , it might not be " valid under international law " as far as Mexico is concerned . Still , <URL> and <URL> suggest that it is in fact accepted as a travel document by many countries so it could be another solution . If that does not work , yet another solution could be to get a US Re-entry permit ( for the return to the US ) and some form of " laissez-passer " from the Mexican authorities ( no idea if they issue something like that or how much it costs but some countries do ) . Both the refugee travel document and the re-entry permit are listed as WHTI-compliant travel document by major US airlines like <URL> and <URL> so flying should be no problem , provided you have the right to enter Mexico . None of this is particularly cheap or easy , being a refugee typically sucks . Considering that this is a pretty atypical case , I would try to check everything ( including a potential visa requirement in spite of the green card ) with the Mexican authorities as soon as possible .
Legally speaking , you need a valid passport or equivalent travel document to cross any border of a Schengen state , whether it 's an inner or outer border of the Schengen area . I ca n't find a list of equivalent travel documents for France , but <URL> only lists " exotic " alternatives -- documents for refugees , for seafarers , etc. ( Nationals of an EU country and a few others need only an identity card ) . In practice , borders inside the Schengen area are not equipped for systematic checks and there is a high likelihood that you 'll just drive through without even noticing that you 've passed the border . There are ( or used to be ) occasional checks for drug smuggling on the road from the Netherlands to France ; I doubt that it 's a problem if all you can show is a driving license . It 's better if you have your residence permit and a photocopy of your passport -- with these documents , it would take exceptional to get into trouble . As far as I know , there is no direct penalty for not carrying an identity document in France . ( I know that for nationals ; I think it 's also true for non-nationals . ) There is an obligation that you must be able to prove your identity upon request ( technically , the request has to be justified , but in practice a police officer can always find a pretext ) . As a non-national , you 'd also have to prove your right to be there , as otherwise you could be detained and expelled . Again , with a proof of identity such as a driving license , plus a copy of your passport and residence permit , you are very unlikely to get into trouble . The one thing you can not reliably do without a passport is fly . All commercial airlines require a passport ( or identity card ) , even for Schengen internal flights . They often do n't check , but if they do , they 're likely to not let you board the flight if you do n't have documentation that 's acceptable to them .
I 'm going to assume you 're from the UK , based only on the fact the learning to fly abroad is popular for UK residents , since many places offer flight time cheaper than the UK . You 're from Saudi , but I do n't think that changes anything . The southern USA used to be the venue of choice , because of low flight time costs and reliably good weather . I understand that recent visa restriction changes mean that USA is now pretty much off the table for someone wanting to earn their PPL on a vacation . My first recommendation is Canada . The <URL> starts by saying you need a student visa , but then notes that students intending to come to Canada for six months or less do n't need one . I would recommend checking this out before committing to anything . The weather is good , in the sense that flying conditions are rarely poor enough to prevent you flying . ( I recommend summer rather than winter though , just because people mostly do n't want to fly light planes when its very cold , even if the weather permits it ) . Other popular venues are Australia and South Africa . I 'm afraid I ca n't speak for their visa requirements . The schools I found with my brief search were all focussed on CPL training ( even more popular than foreign PPL training since the savings are higher ) . Your search results may vary . If you have a ticket paid to anywhere , those two would also provide you with the advantage of an awesome vacation experience . Be aware that learning to fly is going to occupy you full time for several weeks . While the weather may be nice , you wo n't get much ' vacation ' in the sense of relaxed beach-sitting or sightseeing while you are doing it .
I do n't know what the law is , but when I was on Cuba , I always left my passport in the hotel safe and carried a copy . I spent some hours in a police station in Havana but I do n't think anybody ever wanted to see my passport . Many Europeans also have an identity card , I often carry that with me as a form of authentication . It does n't help you to get into the country , but it is a legal document and can be helpful if you have to deal with the authorities .
It 's easy to get a ballpark worse-case estimate . If you count one page per trip ( one entry stamp and one exit stamp on the same page ) , 10 years of validity and 24 pages , that 's at least between 2 and 3 trips per year . In reality , you will manage more than that ( because stamps are small and border guards can put them on pages that have already been used ) but you might also need several pages for a single country ( e.g. if you need a visa -- but US citizens are lucky in this respect as they can visit many countries without one ) . My understanding is that the choice between 24 and 52 pages is at the discretion of the passport office . If that 's your very first passport and unless you just started a career that requires frequent travel abroad , you 're very unlikely to either get or need the 52-page variant .
A good way to search for these stopovers is to use <URL> . Here 's an illustration of a search for stopovers of at least 36 hours ( 2160 minutes ) . First do a simple search to get an idea of prices without stopover charges : <URL> Which produces this result ( I requested prices in USD to make comparison easier ) : <URL> Next add in the / minconnect option which requests a stopover/layover with a minimum connection time in minutes : <URL> Which gives : <URL> You 'll often find the same stopover point , so you might want to eliminate one or several stopover points from your search and you can do that by specifying " ~ XXX " for not airport XXX or " ~ XXX , YYY " for not either of airport XXX or YYY , followed by " * " meaning any number of additional flights , e.g. . <URL> and you might end up with an alternative set of stopovers : <URL> Once you 've found a set of flights that look suitable , you 'll need to check visa requirements and then try to book the flights either on an airline 's website with the multicity option , or call a travel agent .
No , it 's not " always " an option . Most taxis do take credit cards , and specifically in Tokyo virtually all do ; but some do n't , so you ca n't rely on this . Minimum fares of up to & yen ; 5000 may also apply . One interesting alternative is transport smart cards : most visitors to Japan will have a Pasmo/Suica/etc , which are also increasingly accepted by taxis ( look for a little decal on the window as you get in ) . They 're very fast to use too ( tap ! ) and have no surcharges , minimum fares or other hassle .
The decision of accepting or not accepting your entry to Ukraine is made exclusively by frontier guard of Ukraine . Notice of Ukrainian Embassy in RF clearly <URL> that : Решение на пропуск граждан Российской Федерации будут приниматься по результатам контроля второй линии . В первую очередь внимание будет обращаться на мужчин крепкого телосложения , следующих в Украину в одиночку или в составе небольших групп . Decision about admission of Russian citizens across the border will be made considering the result of 2nd line control . So what is the 2nd line control in practice ? To learn that we should address <URL> " About border control " . Paragraph 9 of this law concludes : Procedure of 2nd line control is determined by the results of 1st line control . ... This procedure can include : Determination of departure and destination points of the traveler , purpose of travel and the conditions of stay . Additional documents as well as interview can be demanded if necessary . Determination of sufficiency of funds during the period of stay including return ticket or transit ticket to third-party country or ability to receive additional funding legally on the territory of Ukraine . ... As one can see invitation fully complies to the first point of these requirements and can be claimed by the border officer . So your entry ( or rejection of entry ) is completely up to you : your consciousness , self-confidence and behavior on the border , but nevertheless invitation letter is highly appreciated .
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
That would be at the discretion of the security screeners . They have methods of verifying your identity even if you have no ID at all ( some people forget their wallet ) . If you have a passport , bring that . Otherwise I would expect an expired license will not prevent you from being boarded . As a matter of law , an expired license only affects your right to drive . Your identity does not " expire " .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
Your passport qualifies to <URL> if you prefer . It costs a little less in the short run , but you will have to mail your passport with the application form . Although I was not able to find any info specifically on <URL> about this topic , any restrictions on how early you can renew are conspicuously absent . Information on various US embassy pages from other countries also suggests that you can renew at any time : From <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may apply to renew your U.S. passport at any time . From : <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may <URL> at any time before or after it expires .
I suggest you go to the airport , and obtain your boarding passes there . There are three ways you 'll get them at the airport : If they have check-in machines , you can walk up to them and simply print the boarding pass ( note : depending on how crappy the software is , you may not be able to print them - this has n't happened to me in years , though , since the machines improved ) . You can walk up to the baggage drop-off and ask them to print the boarding pass for you . Depending on how busy/annoying they are , they may send you to a machine , though . You go to the normal check-in counter . This is guaranteed to work out fine , but may take a while , depending on how many other people are queuing . Whatever solution you choose , remember that as soon as you get to the " print your boarding pass " stage , you 're checked into the flight . Thus , you 're on the flight according to their system ( which is good if they kick people off an overbooked flight due to check-in order ) , which means it 'll be quite a hassle for them if you did n't make it to the gate . So you 're all fine .
Yes - it does increase the risk of identity theft , however for most successful identity thefts , the attacker would need various other bits of information as well . The best way to think of it is that every piece of information about you an attacker has , the less effort he has to expend to impersonate you . Once an attacker can impersonate you they could steal your money ( this happens a lot with online banking ) , your house ( a handful of cases seen so far ) , your credit rating , your reputation , and generally cause you major problems . General recommendation is to not place anything in Dropbox unencrypted , if it is at all sensitive . We have a range of questions on this topic over on <URL> and more than happy to discuss in <URL> .
Slightly more than a year ago , on 2011-12-30 CET , as a German citizen , I bought a prepaid card in an <URL> shop in <URL> / Les Halles , Paris . That 's an 11 min travel by public transport ( <URL> ) from Arc de Triomphe . The price for the card was 5 EUR , incl . 5 EUR of credit . I then charged the card with 15 EUR , bought at a <URL> just around the corner , because in the Orange shop that was not possible . The Orange card has an option called Internet max that can be activated either in the SIM card menu somewhere under Multimedia , or online . See the screenshot below : Currently it offers 500MB for 9 EUR per month . Activation of the option took some hours . Tethering did not work , but I believe that it 's possible to hack around that . Note that in the shop they told me that with a standard Orange prepaid card the data option is not available . They are wrong !
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
You can re-enter the US if you have proof of citizenship , so that does n't strictly require a passport -- although it may make your enter procedure more troublesome . As mentioned above , you can theoretically travel to US territories without a passport , from <URL> : For Travel to/from/between U.S. Territories , U.S. Citizens and Nationals : You need a photo identification or travel document when visiting American Samoa , the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands ( CNMI ) , Guam , Puerto Rico , or the U.S. Virgin Islands . Your itinerary and/or carrier may require this document to be your passport . You also need proof of citizenship and either a return or onward ticket , or proof of employment in the territory , to visit American Samoa . Also from that page : For Travel to/from/between Freely Associated States , U.S. Citizens and Nationals : You may need a valid U.S. passport , birth certificate , or naturalization papers to enter a Freely Associated State . If I 'm right that covers Palau , Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands . However , from <URL> : All visitors must have a valid passport not less than 6 months from date of expiration and proof of return arrangements . [ ... ] Citizens of United States of America , Federated States of Micronesia , Republic of the Marshall Islands , Guam , and the Common Wealth of Northern Marianas Islands with valid passports are issued 1 year Visa upon arrival . so that 's out but from <URL> : U.S. citizens may enter any FSM state with a U.S. passport or proof of U.S. citizenship ( birth certificate ) . Non U.S. citizens must have a valid passport from their country of origin . So there 's another option . I ca n't find an official page for the Marshall Islands but <URL> says you need a passport . It appears you used to not required a passport for Mexico or Canada but this changed in 2009/2010 and now everyone requires a passport to cross those borders . Also note , if you 're flying airlines may very well insist on a passport or at least make your life difficult if you do n't have one . But technically passport-less travel is possible to the places mentioned above . I 'm not sure how things like privately owned islands work -- could you theoretically fly there without a passport ? I 'd also imagine you might be able to persuade a cruise company to let you helicopter out to their cruise liner and land on that , which might count .
As far as I am aware , most ( every ? ) country has two tracks for visitor visas : normal and emergency . Emergency typically is only granted for death or very serious illness of a close family member ( blood relative ) . <URL> Emergency visa applications If you or a family member need to visit the Netherlands urgently , you can apply for an emergency visa . To apply for an emergency visa , please contact the <URL> .
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
As far as I can tell , the rules regarding US passport issuance allow legal guardians to act in place of parents where necessary . This makes sense , as legal guardians , with the proper paperwork , are generally entitled to act as parents , and a regulation that prohibited guardians from doing so for passports would be impractical . <URL> gives the actual legal rules for passports for minors . The phrase " or legal guardian " is used throughout . ( b ) ( 2 ) , which talks about passports for 16 and 17 year olds , says " The passport authorizing officer may at any time require a minor 16 years of age and above to submit the notarized consent of a parent , a legal guardian , or a person in loco parentis to the issuance of the passport . " It seems that the consent of a legal guardian can substitute for that of a parent in this case .
end question
start question
Renting a car in Ireland when under 25 ?
So basically , it 'll ultimately depend on the rental company , but there are certainly penalties . It 's also definitely possible , so do n't worry about that . For example , from <URL> : Drivers under 25 must have held their full license for at least 24 months prior to the date of pick up . The minimum age to rent a vehicle is 21 years ( maximum 75 ) . Drivers under 25 , i.e. drivers aged 21,22 , 23 or 24 are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day and drivers 70 or over are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day . All drivers under 25 and over 70 are liable for the first 1,200 Euro of damage to the car ( excess ) . The surcharge is paid when collecting the car and is not included in the quoted price . However , there are a few other terms on that page with regards to where you hold your current license , and whether you 'll need to supply an international driver 's license . But once you 've got that , you should be good to go .
Are you after the physical answer , or the legal one ? Presuming he still physically has his license , and it has an expiry date beyond when he will be renting the car , then he will most likely be able to physically rent a car . If he is pulled over by the police , then he will most likely be able to lie and claim that his license is valid , and he will probably get away with it . However doing that will be illegal on many levels . Firstly , when renting a car , part of the rental agreement is that you have a valid drivers license and are legally allowed to drive in the country you 'll be driving in . As his license has been suspended he will NOT have a valid license , and will NOT be legally allowed to drive in the US . Thus by renting the car he will be committing fraud . Next , by actually driving , he will be driving without a license . Most countries ( including the US ) allow you to drive based on having a valid license in your home country . He does not , thus he will be driving illegally . When driving without a license , any insurance coverage he has ( including the rental car companies ( self - ) insurance , travel insurance , etc ) will be invalidated . He will be fully responsible financially for any accidents he causes , and very probably even if he is n't at fault . If he is involved in an accident you can all but guarantee that they will check on the validity of his home-country license , and not just take it for granted that it 's valid . If he is pulled over by a police officer it 's unlikely they will be able to tell that his overseas license is suspended , but if they can then he will definitely be charged , which will not only come with a hefty fine , but will leave him in a very unfortunate position as far as returning his rental car is concerned as they will not let him drive it to return it to the rental company . So can he rent a car ? Yes . Will he get away with it ? Probably . Will he be breaking countless laws and potentially risking prison time ? YES ! ( Driving without a license in California can lead to up to 6 months prison , I 'm presuming other states are similar )
Fortunately for you , <URL> . As the link indicates , the act is mostly inoperative , and : " ... as a result most shops and businesses may open whenever they please , including on Sundays and public holidays . " Supermarkets and convenience stores are often open longer on Sundays . The only small issue if you want to get started early , is that off-license shops that sell alcohol are not permitted to do so on Sundays until after 12.30 pm .
There are tunnels . While some are the casemates or part of the old fortress , many others have been found , dating back centuries . <URL> has a good summary of what exists , what 's theoretically accessible , and what 's actually accessible to the public .
The CBP <URL> : You may bring bakery items and most cheeses into the United States . As a general rule , condiments , vinegars , oils , packaged spices , honey , maple syrup , coffee , fish , tea , and baby formula are admissible . and is classified as general food .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
Avoid the use of the word " fanny " , as it is slang for , ah , a woman 's front bits . Be very careful when referring to your fanny pack ! Also , if an attractive member of the opposite sex asks you if you have a " rubber " , double-check to make sure there are n't any chalkboards around because you 're probably being asked for an eraser .
Bring a towel or blanket , some baby wipes , and optionally a small trowel or a stick you picked up along the way . A few small plastic bags are also helpful . If someone ( especially a small child ) ca n't wait until you can exit , pull over at a safe spot . A safe spot has a shoulder significantly wider than the car , and you pull as far off as you can without risking the car sliding off the roadway and getting stuck . Make sure ( by watching as you choose the spot ) you have a good long view behind you ( a straight stretch of road ) so you will be able to get back on the road safely knowing no cars are coming , and a good long view ahead of you so that cars who are passing you can see there is no oncoming traffic and may give you a slightly wider berth . Once pulled over , exit only through the passenger doors . If a child is the " goer " have an adult exit first , then the child . Once the " goer " is out of the car , walk a little further from the road , locate a good spot ( see further ) and have one or possibly two adults hold up the towel or blanket to screen the " goer " from cars passing by . If this is a new experience , make sure the goer does not have one foot downhill of the action , especially if they are going to squat . Watch for poison ivy , nettles , or other unfriendly vegetation that should not be contacted with bare skin . Also watch for insect activity to avoid a sudden and possibly painful interruption . If they 're just peeing , you do n't need to make a hole , but if necessary , make a very shallow hole first , then have the goer use it . Do not bury the wipe , nor any toilet paper - they do n't decompose . Scrape a little dirt over the contents of the hole afterwards . Put the used wipes in the plastic bag for disposal at the rest stop . The wipes can also be used for handwashing . When the goer is done and the pants are back up , the towel or blanket can be put back in the car and used next time or for any other purpose . You may find the wipes handy in other situations too .
TL ; DR : You should n't . Taiwan is nowhere near as " bow-heavy " as Japan , but the same rule applies : foreigners are not expected to know or understand how to bow , and that 's fine . Anybody meeting or being introduced to you is going to shake hands Western style . If you see people bowing at temples , funerals , whatever , what they 're doing is none of your business and you 're best off watching from the back . If somebody bows to you , it 's polite to nod back as an acknowledgement , but that 's about it . See also : <URL>
The answer to all three of your questions is " It depends " . The only way you will get an answer is by asking the owner directly . If it 's beoing offered on AirBNB , then my assumption is that it is being offered much the same as any holiday rental . In that sense , the answer to 1 . can be inferred from if it is advertised as " whole property " or " private room " . 2 wil be at the discretion of the owner , and 3 . is likley to depend on the opinions of the owner and any local legal/regulatory requirements . As the boat is being advertised on AirBnB , my assumption would be that it is being offered in the capacity of accomodation that happens to float , rather than as a watercraft . Again , all the above is an assumption , you will need to contact the owner to know if that really is the case . If you are interested in a holiday on a yacht that moves around , then there are many services out there that offer this . Look for terms like " Flotilla " and " Bareboat " . There are packages both with you as the entire crew , or with an existing crew . It is n't cheap , but it 's also not so expensive as to be for the " 1 % " only . It could certainly be a fun way to visit some mediterranean cities .
You can return a rental car early , but whether you get any refund , or even get penalized for the early return , depends on the terms and conditions spelled out in your particular rental agreement . By returning early , you may forfeit certain discounts . For example , a rental car agency may be willing to give you a weekly rate for a five-day rental , but switch to the daily rate for a four-day rental . By returning the car early , the rental car agency may further claim that your original contract has been violated , allowing them to charge a higher rate , but that will not be true for every company or for every jurisdiction . Some agencies may charge an early return fee for postpaid hires . Alamo is well-known for charging $ 15 for early returns , and there are many anecdotes of agency absurdities like <URL> for returning a car 10 minutes early . The reason for the charge , as <URL> is to compensate us in part for our inability to rent your vehicle during the time reserved for your use . On prepaid rentals , again , whether or not you receive any refund for the time remaining depends on your agreement . <URL> that they will recalculate charges based on the actual time rented , while their competitors Hertz and Alamo do not -- but see above for other shadiness from Budget .
There are plenty of buses to Eugene from other cities . From Eugene there is a bus to the McKenzie River Ranger Station a few times a day <URL> From there , its a 10 mile hike . Could make a nice little backpacking overnight trip .
It very much depends on what you mean by . For the purpose of this answer I will assume you meant engine damage linked to combustible type , rather than other possibly infrastructure-related issues . <URL> seems to have driven quite a few kilometres in South America , and can thus provide some useful hands-on experience . Probably worth a reading . Understanding Octane Ratings <URL> A higher-octane fuel is therefore capable of withstanding higher compressions than a lower-octane . Compression is an intrinsic phase of the correct operation of an internal combustion engine . Compression results in an increase of temperature , and can therefore cause low-octane fuel to ignite . However fuel ignition is a precisely-timed operation , in that the ignition should be commanded by the spark plug only , when the piston reaches a precise point in its stroke . <URL> can be harmful to the engine . Mexico and USA Use Comparable Octane Ratings <URL> ( ) , which means that the octane values you read on Mexican filling stations will be comparable to those back home . <URL> : 87 and 92 . Hence pick the rating that most closely resembles the one you normally use in the US and you should be safe . Comparing Octane Ratings In case you were to drive in countries that use an octane rating different than ( usually this would be Research Octane Number ) , you could use <URL> from wikipedia , which states that : 87 is & sime ; 90/91/92 92 is & sime ; 95/96/97 / 98 Guatemala and Costa Rica , for example , seem indeed to use ratings .
Esterel As you mentioned , the Esterel hills are very nice and a very good spot for hiking and mountain biking . To go there , you can take the regional train from Cannes . <URL> to Les Arcs-Draguignan stops in Théoule-sur-Mer or the following stops . The seaside between Théoule-sur-Mer and Anthéor is gorgeous , but this is better with a road bike ( it would be dangerous to walk along the road ) . From Théoule , there is for example the Circuit des Monges , No. 21 in the <URL> which is actually better fitted for hiking . There are a lot of other hikes in the area , a simple search on a website like <URL> gives some ideas . You can easily find half-day or full-day hikes . Sophia As @Midhat suggested , you can take <URL> to Sophia/Valbonne area from which you can do some short hikes . Auron/Isola I know this is way further , but you can go up to Isola or Auron via Nice . You can take a train at 6am to Nice , and then the Rando-bus ( buses <URL> or <URL> or <URL> ) . There are hikes from up there . Vallée des Merveilles A famous hike in Southern Alps is the <URL> . There is a train departing from Nice ( again you can take a Cannes-Nice and transfer ) called <URL> . It stops in some towns from which you can hike , sometimes <URL> . Train des Pignes A last possibility is to take the Train des Pignes , again from Nice , offers <URL> from its stops . Practical information On trains , you are allowed to take your bike . On buses , this is never possible . The price of trains depends on the distance and if you are under 26 , you can have 25 % off during off-peak hours . Buses cost 1 euro per trip , except the Rando-bus which costs 4 euros and should be <URL> .
Unfortunately , this is almost impossible . They normally accept it for the reservation , but you are required to provide a credit card in order to actually get the car . But there 's more . The credit card must belong to the same person that made the reservation . I 've checked the terms of the most common rental services such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , and they all clearly highlight the same requirement . The only advices I can provide you are : depending on where you land , try to see if there is a local car rental service . They normally have lower requirements try to contact one of those services and explain them the issue . They may help you .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
You did n't specify a locale , but within the United States , the answer depends a bit on when and where you are picking the car up and when and where you are dropping it off . Shopping around The obvious first step is to search as broadly as possible and to be as flexible as possible . Compare rates at Kayak , VroomVroomVroom , and other comparison sites . Planning the trip Sometimes , the length of the trip factors into the calculation . A few years ago , I rented a car in Binghamton , NY and drove up to Watertown for a 3-day trip . I then needed to drive to Washington , DC and was quoted something exhorbitant for the 4-day , 1-way rental . After talking with the agent over the phone , however , I " returned " the car to Binghamton on the way down and made a second rental -- in fact , the identical vehicle ; I never even took out my bags . In other words , instead of a 4-day 1-way trip , it was a 3-day return and a 1-day 1-way trip , and that saved me almost a third . Yet I have also heard anecdotally of the reverse , where a 2-day 1-way gets a $ 300 surcharge and the 3-day 1-way does not . Enterprise and perhaps some other agencies only charge the one-way fee if the drop-off location is more than 500 miles from the pickup location . In still other cases , you may be exempt if renting from corporate-owned locations but not from franchises . You will need to do some research on your own whether the cost advantages of renting from a neighborhood location ( namely avoiding airport surcharges and taxes ) outweigh the disadvantage of paying the one-way charge . One-way specials The major rental agencies offer one-way deals as they try to redistribute cars around the country to meet demand . In particular , cars accumulate in warm-weather states in the winter , so in the springtime you 'll often find huge discounts if you pick up in Florida or Arizona and drop off in the Northeast or Midwest ( Hertz for several years has offered $ 5/day to take a compact from Arizona and drop it off in California , Colorado , or a few other states ) . Check the specials pages on their websites . Note that the deal usually applies to only certain types of vehicles and to certain locations , mostly airport locations in major cities . For Australia , Canada , New Zealand , and the US , try searching on auto relocation agency sites like iMoova and TransferCar for current offerings . Some agencies may not charge a one-way fee if the travel is between airport locations entirely within a few large states , such as California or Florida , where there is a healthy circulation of vehicles . You are less likely to find such deals from neighborhood locations or from smaller agencies , because they have smaller fleets with higher utilization and are thus less " liquid " with their cars . Fee-free rate codes Some contract rates or coupons waive the drop-off fee , as various organizations negotiate special rates on behalf of their sales staff or other traveling employees . You can find many lists of such rate and coupon codes on the Internet ; however , you may be asked to demonstrate that you qualify for the particular rate , and in some cases , you must present a physical coupon . Driveaways A driveaway is not a traditional rental car ; instead , you are transporting a car on behalf of its owner from one location to another . In essence , you are a delivery service . Companies like <URL> can help set you up with a car . As might be expected , however , there are significant differences from a traditional rental car . On the one hand , you may get a newer , cleaner , or fancier car , as well as save a lot of money . On the other hand , you will face a high deposit , time and mileage limits , and restrictions such as no eating , no nighttime driving , or no using the trunk . Finally , in some cases there is simply no possibility . I know of no agency that will be happy if you rent from Fairbanks , Alaska and return to Seattle , because there are so few cars that will be dropped off in Fairbanks . Specialty cars ( sports cars , convertibles , etc. ) also tend to be excluded from deals , because they do not circulate as freely and because their patrons are less price-sensitive . International rentals are also tricky . I know anecdotally that trying to rent a car in Western Europe and return it in Eastern Europe is a daunting prospect . Laws can trip you up ; for example , Canadians can not drive a U.S.-registered rental over the border due to import laws ( although they can rent a Canadian-registered vehicle in the U.S. and drive it cross-border ) .
The vehicle temporarily imported by the owner may be driven in Mexico by the spouse or adult children , as long as they have the same immigration status . Other persons may drive the vehicle as long as the owner is in the vehicle . <URL>
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
I 'm an American living in Chile , and have rented a car here many times . They ask for ID ( your US passport if you are a tourist ) , your drivers license , and a major credit card . You can rent a manual transmission car if you want . There is no test , or anything . They assume you can drive one , since most people outside the U.S. can . However , automatics are also available ( and are common ) at most rental companies .
end question
start question
Is it best for Canadians to get an Egyptian visa in advance or at the Cairo airport ?
Normally it is not required to have Visa tourist in advance for USA , Canada and most of Europe . But this is only for Tourist visa , any other visa ( work , businesses , diplomatic , ... ) should be arranged in advance . Also this is for normal passports , official or diplomatic passports need advance visa . Tourist visa can be stamped in all main airports for : UK citizens : # 15 US citizens : US$ 15 Australian citizens : A$ 45 Canadian citizens : C$ 25 other countries : $ 15 Lately there are talks in Egypt about needing arranged Visa for solo-travelers . Which means that people travel in tourist groups will not require arranged visa . To be sure , I think it is better to give a call to <URL> .
Yes , there is a premium service provided by VFS called " Premium Service Lounge " . I have got an appointment on same date by this facility . It is really great service by VFS and everything will be done very easily . The Premium Lounge Service includes : Separate lounge with personalized service by dedicated staff Refreshments Faster submission of applications at the visa application center Courier return of passport SMS alert on the status of your application Photocopying and photo booth service for your documents Important note : Your visa application will be processed and decided by the French Consulate in Bangalore , Use of the Premium Service Lounge does not affect the processing time of your application .
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
In short , no . Remember , you 're dealing with a bunch of government bureaucrats here , you 'll still need to satisfy <URL> . That said , having evidence of previous travel and ( the important part ! ) having returned home will be helpful in proving that you 're not planning to migrate to the EU permanently . However , I do n't think you 'll be able to apply while still in the UK , since <URL> . The good news is that obtaining a Schengen visa is relatively easy compared to getting a UK visa : lower application fees , shorter application forms , less supporting documentation needed , more locations where one may apply ( VFS global offices in 15 + cities , if you apply from Russia ) , a straightforward application process , shorter processing times .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
All ATMs in the Thai Bank Pool charge the 200 baht fee * , the two exceptions are Citibank ( only in Bangkok ) and AEON who charge 150 baht ( neither are technically banks which is why they are outside the pool ) . A traveler really needs to pull the max amount of baht allowed to keep the fee more minimal in terms of percentages . Most machines limit you to 20 notes , or 20,000 baht , though I heard a couple of bank chains now have new machines that will dispense 30 notes . You can go inside the banks and get a Visa or MasterCard cash advance . Some banks like Bangkok Bank do it without any fees , some others add a 2 or 3 % surcharge . But you need to use a Visa or MC debit card , not credit card , because credit cards charge you interest from the moment you get the advance , there is no 30 day grace period as you get on purchases . You also need to ask for an amount greater than the ATM allows or the teller will point you to the ATM machine outside . Travelers checks carry fees to exchange as well so are n't really any cheaper , plus only a few brands are accepted these days because too many counterfeits were circulating . Cash is , of course , the best in terms of no fees , but adds the worry for some folks about carrying that much cash around . With cash you need to make sure you have crisp new notes , banks are finicky about taking old tattered notes . You also need to consider that some currencies like the US Dollar , the rate you get depends on the denomination of the note , ie : you get a better exchange rate using $ 100 bills , than using $ 10 bills . * The ATM fee is scheduled to increase to 250 baht in August 2016
I might contribute some inside knowledge since I am working for a company which contributed the software for a major cheap-flight company . Generally the prices are determined by offer and the demand BUT there is another major variable ( in fact several ) in the game for short-booking . Statistics show that most ( 80 % ) last-minute bookers are in an important need for the short booking and therefore willing to pay more . So the function which generates the price for short-bookings is not a complete function of offer and demand any more like it was years ago . If you want to know what 's the deal do the following : Go to your online bookers homepage . Search for a flight which is taking off today and try to book that ticket . With this you firstly know how short you can book online and secondly if the prices are acceptable for you . Your question is also highly location dependant . In the country I live ( Switzerland ) I get the cheapest flights through a friend who works at the airport and calls me when a certain flight is available . I can only recommend trying both the online and physical approach .
Is it usual , no . Does it happen , yes . Baggage travels from the terminal to plane side in a variety of conveyances , some which are covered and protected from rain , some which are not . And unfortunately , there is really no covered area plane side where they could move the uncovered baggage cart to if it starts raining . While you may see the ramp staff hide under the wing during rains , safety rules often prohibit the tugs and baggage carts from going under the wing ( especially on smaller planes that would have hand loading ) . For the most part you probably need not worry about it , but it never hurts to consider how you are flying and through which cities . If your flights involve smaller aircraft ( 737 , 757 , A320 , RJ , prop planes , etc ) and you are flying through a city where frequent showers occur , then protecting things inside your bag ( especially those that might be damaged by water ) might be warranted . Otherwise , I would n't be too concerned .
I use five strategies to pay for things when I travel : The best rates are often the rates you get with your American credit card or debit card . Try to charge as much as you can . The fees are very low and the exchange rates are fair . However , many American banks charge several dollars for every foreign currency transaction , so if you plan to spend a lot of time in Europe , you may want to apply for a credit card with low or free foreign currency transactions . Right now , Capital One has a reputation for being the best deal on foreign currency . My second favorite strategy is to get cash out of foreign ATMs using my own bank 's debit card attached to my checking account . I 've never had a problem with this , but I have heard that if your PIN is more than 4 digits , it may not work internationally . There are a few countries where most ATMs do n't like American bank cards , notoriously Japan . In Japan , if you can find a post office , they have ATMs that are happy to accept American bank cards . Any kind of transaction that involves a human being standing behind a counter changing money for you is going to be bloody expensive . Like , 15 % expensive ... or more . You have to pay for the person and the counter . I very rarely do this . Very rarely , in Europe , you will find yourself dealing with an automatic machine that ONLY accepts credit cards and which keeps asking you for a PIN or refusing to read your American credit card . The most common places I 've had this happen : Automatic ticket machines at railroad stations Bicycle rental machines Unattended gas stations Toll booths in France Essentially what 's happening here is that European credit cards have an embedded chip and require a PIN , while American credit cards use a magnetic stripe . In some situations in Europe you must pay with a Chip and PIN credit card . See <URL> for information about getting a chip and pin card as an American . There is some evidence that <URL> . In a pinch , you 'll discover that nicer hotels are often happy to convert money for you . The rates are not very good , but if you keep a few hundred dollars in US cash hidden away somewhere safe , it 'll get you out of just about any kind of situation .
Hotels usually have a full legally regulated rate ( the one posted on the inside of the door inside the room ) , a walk in rate ( what they charge if you just show up ) and an advance booking rate . The full rate that is posted is usually equal to the walk in rate during peak season and , with the exception of a holiday surcharge ( NYE , Xmas , etc ) , is the highest amount they can legally charge for that room . The walk in rate varies depending on the season , during shoulder season in Hawai'i it could be quite a bit lower than during peak summer season . While this rate is usually a set amount , most front desks have some leeway to discount that rate if the hotel has low occupancy . The discounted rates offered by the hotel for advance bookings through its own website vs the rates offered through OTAs , like Agoda or Expedia , etc are becoming more equal as time goes by . The primary advantage of OTAs is being able to look at multiple options on one page AND since OTAs have blocks of rooms they committed to , they will offer the same discounted rate right up to check in day . Hawai'i is busy but not totally sold out , with the exception of the peak seasons , you can find rooms available in most areas upon arrival . And even during peak summer and the new year period , there will be some room to be had somewhere . Personally I would book my first stay before leaving for the islands , just for the ease of arriving and relaxing instead of hunting down rooms . Then as you piece together your next location , get online with the OTAs booking.com , hotels.com , agoda.com etc and see what they have available . If rooms are available you can book them right up until you arrive at the hotel . You can also use the price the OTAs quote as bargaining material if you want to walk in and book direct with the hotel . And if you spot a really cool hotel while wandering around but the front desk tells you they have no rooms , check with the OTAs as they may have space in their blocks still , which the front desk ca n't access to sell direct .
The restrictions made by the Congress on those possessing Iranian nationality are only to the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . Canada is not a participant in the Visa Waiver Program . Canadians entering the US on Canadian passports do not do so under the VWP . I do not believe your parents will be affected by these changes . <URL>
I think what you want is covered in the Frequently Asked Questions about Advance fares section of the National Rail Enquiries ( internal ) Knowledgebase ( iKB ) , which is n't available online officially . However , one of the nice members of Rail UK Forums <URL> in response to a <URL> Q25 - Can a passenger with an Advance ticket travel on an earlier connecting train ? A : Yes if it is non-reservable , no if it is reservable . An exception that benefits passengers : Where Virgin Trains East Coast is a connecting TOC from Stevenage via London and vice versa , e.g. " AP London-Reading " , or " VWC &amp; Connections " , Virgin Trains East Coast waives the need to travel on the exact Virgin Trains East Coast train booked on this relatively short journey Stevenage ↔ Kings Cross , even though retail systems will force a reservation to be made . So , it all depends on if seat reservations would 've been possible on the connecting train you want to take . If there are seat reservations possible , then an advanced ticket is only valid where you have a reservation on that service . Where no seat reservations are possible , a &amp; Connections ticket is Checking easily which trains can and ca n't have seats reserved is probably a different question ... If you ask staff at the station about a specific train they can tell you though !
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
This is a very difficult question to answer in general , because different airlines have different seating configurations , seat pitches , etc. . The best thing to do is to check out sites dedicated to airline seating plans , such as : <URL> ( by far one of the most popular ones ) <URL> <URL> All of these sites are built on a user-submitted database + aircraft seat plan data on what the best seats in an airplane are , according to aircraft type , passenger class , short/long haul sectors etc. . I see that you 've already checked SeatGuru ; beyond that , you may also want to check one of the others ones to see if SeatGuru 's missed out anything . Usually , they 're pretty standard . For economy class , unless you have extra legroom or reduced recline or proximity to galleys / toilets , there literally is n't much that distinguishes one seat from another . After that , it all boils down to personal choices . I usually like aisle seats for extra legroom . The back of an airplane will experience more G-force during ascents , so some people prefer seats towards the front of the aircraft . And so on . Everyone likes extra legroom , but as an economy class passenger even if you check-in online , chances are you wo n't get those seats on long haul flights because many airlines open up online check-in for those in higher frequent flyer tiers earlier . This gets easier to snag if you 're a solo traveller because it 's much more likely to find singleton seats later in the checkin process . When travelling with four people , on your flight the middle row will allow you all to sit together . If you want two window seats , then it 's going to be quite awkward if you plan to talk during the journey . My advice ? It 's a long haul flight . People around you wo n't like people chatting . Tune in to the in-flight entertainment system , read a book , or just zone out on any seat you get .
<URL> is your best option . <URL> on where and how to find them : The shuttles are white colored and parked in front of the terminal building arrivals level exit ready to take you to Taksim for a fee of 14 TL and to Kadıköy for a fee of 9 TL . Shuttle 's Taksim departure point is across Taksim Divan hotel , in front of the Point Hotel .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
There are trains to Schiphol every hour through the night , it 's the Heerlen end of the trip that make it difficult . So you could first go to Utrecht , sleep there and catch a train in the morning . Or go all the way to Leiden or Amsterdam by train on Saturday afternoon and take a train , bus or taxi on Sunday morning . Depending on the type of accommodation/level of comfort , it should be possible to find cheaper ho ( s ) tel or B&amp;B in those cities than at the airport . You would also have more time to sleep in the morning than if you were to take your own car or a long-distance train during the night .
I said this in a comment , but now I 've got a proper citation , so here 's a proper answer . Canadian visas ( like every other visa I 'm familiar with ) do indeed have an expiration date . This is the date by which you must travel to Canada to seek entry . As you note in your comment , the duration of stay is not affected by the expiration of the visa . The expiry date on the TRV is the date by which the visa must be used to seek admission into Canada . If the visa is not used on or before that date , it ceases to be valid . " TRV " means " Temporary resident visa " Source : <URL>
In most cases you can buy tickets before departure . But there can be problems during russian holidays . At least 4 dayly buses are available from different companies . And only one company offers you online booking : <URL>
end question
start question
Does Pacific Central Station ( Vancouver ) have a Global Entry/NEXUS machine ?
I had someone coming from Seattle to Vancouver to check out the station carefully and there is no sight of GE or NEXUS machines .
Delhi is a Modern Indian city with a population of about 15 million people . If you have been to Delhi , you must have noticed the amount of traffic in the city . Even though it is true that cows are worshiped in Hindu Mythology , they are an inconvenience for the flow of traffic . Over time they have been moved away from Delhi and now you wo n't find them on most roads . If you go into the village sections of Delhi , you will still find them in many households but this practice is also decreasing due to unavailability of grazing land . 15 years ago , Delhi had much more cows than now . Agra is a relatively older city which is much less developed . It is not only smaller than Delhi but it more traditional that it . There is a good availability of grazing lands near Agra so you will still find many cows on the street even though they are an inconvenience to traffic . Official removal efforts were also made in Delhi in order to prevent Cows and Buffalo within the city center . Conscious efforts by citizens were also made in order to prevent deaths of Cows . Traffic usually waits when cows are crossing roads as a mark of respect but every once in a while some lunatic crashes into one . It 's simply a step into modernization and reducing inconveniences to both kinds of species . Everything else apart , I was born and brought up in Delhi and have visited Agra several times as well . I truly cherish both cities and find that each has its own beauty . Hope this helps !
NOLI is used to indicate that the Terminal Tax has not been paid for flights . I am not sure what the letters stand for .
What usually happens is that originally , there is a station named X ( which may or may not be named after the city where it is located ) . At some point it is decided that the area needs a new station , and that the new station shall just be named " Shin-X " , which should be understood as meaning " the new X " . Sometimes the reason why a new station is necessary is that a new Shinkansen line to the area is planned and it is determined that the existing station is not suitable to accomodate it . This is what happened in Shin-Osaka for example : the area around Osaka station did not have enough room for the necessary developments . There can be many other reasons why a new station is needed , however . In the case of Shin-Sapporo , it was to serve a new urban development ( which incidentally was also named Shin-Sapporo ) . An interesting one is Shin-Rifu ( in Rifu town , near Sendai ) which was established when the Tohoku Shinkansen started operating , not because the Shinkansen actually goes to this station , but to accomodate employees and visitors of the neighbouring Shinkansen rail yard . The Japanese wikipedia page of a station usually has a " History " section where some background information about its establishment is given . And sometimes Shin is just part of the " actual " name of the station , as with Shintoku station ( in Shintoku city , Hokkaido ) .
A NEXUS membership card may be used as an alternative to a passport when entering the United States : by air when used at kiosks at designated airports ; and at all land and marine ports of entry . From : <URL> However it would seem advisable in some cases to carry your passport with your regardless , perhaps in case of a visit to another country before return to Canada .
The Pacific route is a beautiful route ! Expensive , but beautiful none the less . From the West Coast of the U.S. , you can take Amtrak 's Cascades train ( tel. 800/USA RAIL ; www.amtrak.com ) to Bellingham , Washington ; the dock for the Alaska ferry is quite close to the railroad station . From the east , it makes more sense to use Canada 's Via Rail ( tel. 888/VIA-RAIL ; www.viarail.ca ) . The transcontinental route starts all the way back in Toronto ; you change in Jasper to end up in Prince Rupert , B.C. , where you can catch the Alaska ferry north . <URL> Regardless , your <URL> ; you 'll have to double back East to head North , and you 'll only go as far as Prince Rupert . ( Screenshot from www.viarail.ca ) I would go with if I did n't have a job !
Since Cathay is HK ailines and all planes are registered in HK , so they follow HK law . Based on HK Law ( <URL> ) , spearfishing gun is arm . The Sect 2 of the ordinance consider any harpoon or spear gun , however powered or size , as arm . However the law does not rule the ammunition of spearfishing gun . Base on sect 8 , you may take spearfishing gun on CX flight if you stay in restricted area . However , the items should be put in checked luggage , and also <URL> There is no other specific rules related to carry general diving equipment on flight in HK , except gas tank and arms .
As a rule of thumb , visas are issued by independent states , while subnational entities issue entry permits . Also , as another rule of thumb , a visa is granted in advance but an entry permit is given on arrival . The Cook Islands are a dependency of New Zealand that control their own immigration ( hence the entry permits ) , but " outsource " their foreign policy to New Zealand and thus operate no overseas embassies that could grant visas . The vast majority of visitors also receive their permits on arrival , although there is a provision to apply in advance for longer stays/work permits . Some other examples of subnational entry permits : Andaman and Nicobar Islands ( India ) , Mount Athos ( Greece ) , Sarawak ( Malaysia ) ...
The <URL> states ( under " Online check-in " - > " Conditions " ) : Non EU/EEA passengers must proceed to the Wizz Air check-in desk for document check before proceeding through security to departure . Failure to do so may result in travel being denied . No exception is mentioned for intra-Schengen flights .
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
I am not from around your area , but prospecting has always been an interest of mine . <URL> looks at the general information relating to prospecting in the US , a link from that article <URL> provides more detail . <URL> has many links pertaining to the rules , regulations and locations of the gold-panning areas in the Pacific Northwest . I hope this helps .
I visited the NEXUS office at the YVR airport and was told : There is no penalty Do not use your card for now but it indeed did n't expire . Your passport is not enough , you need your citizenship certificate as well . ( Doh ! ) You do not need to schedule an appointment for this just go to the enrollment centre .
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
Since <URL> : A Korean embassy or consulate can issue two types of visas : a short-term visa for visitors who want to stay up to 90 days and a special long-term visa for periods longer than 90 days . A visitor with a special long-term visa is required to apply for alien registration at a local immigration office within 90 days of arrival . I think one can work backwards and deduce that for stays under 90 days ( standard visa ) such is not required .
You got it wrong , there are few types of outlets onboard airplanes : Utility outlets : They are used by the ground/fleet services to clean the aircraft on ground prior to passengers boarding . Usually it will be used for strong vacuum cleaners which requires higher voltage/frequency and can damage electronics not designed for these outlets . This is the type mentioned in the paragraph you quoted above . Shavers outlets : These are found in lavatories , they are designed for electronic shavers and can be used only for shavers . In-seat outlets : These are embedded in the passengers seats and are designed to be used with personal carry on electronics ( laptops , phone chargers ... etc ) . Usually they are deactivated during boarding , take offs and landings and activated during cruise only . This is what you should use and it is available in most major airlines including Cathay Pacific . Also it is mentioned in the <URL> : In-seat power will soon be available across our entire fleet for the devices mentioned above . These in-seat power ratings are however not designed for use with medical devices such as CPAP machines . Passengers must provide their own batteries that are sufficient to power medical portable electronic devices .
Well , as you can tell if you 're in Vancouver , the North Shore did n't really get winter this year . The <URL> is just east of the Grouse Grind and starts from the same parking lot - it 's also a way better hiking trail . The Grind is basically a staircase in the forest and it 's name is well-earned . If you do n't feel like hiking the trail both ways you can always take the gondola down . Alternatively , you could take the gondola to the top of Grouse Mountain and do some hiking at the top as there is very little snow right now . <URL> is a favorite . If you 're feeling adventurous you can do both the BCMC and Goat Mountain and ride the gondola down after the return from Goat . As for the rating scale you posted you wo n't find much above the T3 level on the North Shore . <URL> ( great view ) would also be a good hike right now . It was icy in January , but most of it has melted since then . There are other hikes of varying difficulty in <URL> that might interest you as well .
<URL> If you are a NEXUS member or eligible Global Entry or SENTRI member , enter your membership number ( PASS ID ) in the " Known Traveler Number " field when booking reservations , or enter it into your frequent flyer profile with the airline . Your membership number is also located on the back of your Trusted Traveler card in the upper-left corner . You can still do this even if you had another previously .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
The passes for Vancouver and Victoria are different . I went two weeks ago from Vancouver to Victoria by bus and ferry . On the ferry you can buy in the gift shop a daily pass for buses in Victoria , costs 5 CAD . To add : you can do it in one day .
end question
start question
Is Van a good base to visit Turkey and Kurdistan ?
I suppose that when talking about " Kurdistan " you have in mind the turkish part of Kurdistan . Note that " Kurdistan " is not a country nor is it a region of one single country . I can not agree with what you have been told . The region you have in mind is larger than you think . If you are driving on your own , which is perfectly feasible , your average speed will be about 60 kilometers per hour on the major axes . If you are traveling by bus , note that in this part of the country , the buses are less frequent than in western Turkey . As an example , from Van to Doğubeyazıt ( near Mount Ararat ) is about 300 kilometers , a 5 hour drive in one direction ... There is no reason to get stuck in Van or another place . Especially if you have three weeks at your disposal to discover the region ( lucky you ... ;-) ) . Okay , in eastern Turkey and south-eastern Turkey , the tourist infrastructure is not comparable to what can be found in the West or on the Mediterranean , but it is possible to find decent hotels . This being said , if you are intersted in travelling to Turkey , a look at <URL> is highly recommended .
It depends a lot on where you 're flying . Also Aeroflot was a different airline pre 1991 , when it got broken up into all the subsidiary ex-Soviet state airlines . So I 'd concentrate on after that , as it also affected maintenance standards and the like . As far as timeliness of flights goes , it depends on your flight - but <URL> . Overall 76 % are on time . 7 % are ' excessively late ' . You also have to realise how BIG Aeroflot used to be before the breakup in 1991 . Sure it had about 3 crashes every year , but it was also huge . A <URL> is quite an informative and interesting read . Finally , a blog post " <URL> " . Worth a look if you 're considering flying with them .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
There is no mark on the Brazilian visa about which port you are expected to enter from . There should n't be any problem with securing different fair . They just do n't want to issue you a visa without proof you can leave when you say you will .
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
Look at this : <URL> You could do it in stages . It 's really tough in places but the scenery is fantastic .
<URL> looks fairly reasonable to me ( ratings seem to agree with my impression ) . Comments by owners and patrons are in German for Basel , though .
It really depends on where you hire the porter , your bargain skills and what kind of porter you want . A price between $ 10-20 is probably ok , but remember that if you do this using an agency the porter will get very little himself ( maybe $ 4-8 a day ) because all the profit goes to the middlemen . Therefore , please bargain hard with the agency and rather give the porter the extra $ directly to him . It 's a shame that porters can walk with your luggage for weeks in the mountains only getting paid a few dollars . I also recommend reading this story : <URL>
The general answer is yes . It is safe to travel there . Nevertheless , Turkey being a very big country one can not lump everything together . The more detailed answer to this questions largely depends on where you go . The area around the Syrian border should be avoided . But that 's nothing really new . Some areas in the East and the South-East should be avoided too . This is n't new either . The Tunceli province has been a place of tension for years . But anyway that 's not a place a tourist would go to . Diyarbakır has also been the theater of recent tensions . But it has calmed down again . More recently , there have been demonstrations in the bigger cities , especially in Istanbul and Ankara . They have on some occasions been violent . There has been some vandalism from the side of the demonstrators and the police has used brute force ( water cannons and tear gas ) to dismantle the demonstrations . These demonstrations are pretty localized though . In Istanbul they are confined to the Taksim square . And there is strictly nothing in the other parts of the city . If you happen to be in this area , just pay attention to what is going on . But do n't be paranoid . A water cannon parked in one corner of the square and some policeman around it can be considered as " normal " these days . However , when they start closing the access to the square , it is time to go . But you do n't have to go very far . Crossing the Tarlabaşı boulevard is enough . On that side you are quiet and you will find a taxi or dolmuş to get away if necessary . So just avoid to get too close to protests and you are fine . There is no use in playing the war correspondent and getting too close to take pictures or videos . I have been to Istanbul and Bursa , some weeks ago and what I am telling here reflects my experience . I have seen the beginning of a demonstration in İstiklal Caddesi . At that moment I decided to go away and go back to the Hotel , which was near the Taksim square . The trip by taxi to the airport was much more dangerous ! It is also worth noting that there is a high <URL> in Turkey . This extends beyond the period you are interested in . In case you are interested , you can follow <URL> , an English speaking source for news about Turkey .
For incoming items ( including most of the major meteor streams ) coming from the North to Easterly direction , and not too bad for West of North as well ( not so good for from the South ) East the utterly marvellous location to beat most others is Glover park above the cliffs to the East of St Heliers Bay . You may be able to drive up Waitara Rd and Park - but large numbers of other cars may wish to dance with you , and a short walk from nearby is often wise . You can walk up the road , but a wander through Glover Park in the dark adds to the mystique . You get to look into an almost completely dark horizon . Some lights on Waiheke . A lighthouse sweep bright but far off on Tiritiri Matangi . Great barrier &amp; Coromandel maybe a few dim gleams . Rangitoto dark . I 've viewed the Perseids there and some others there . For meteor streams that come from a radiant and then appear to travel in all directions from it you want as dark a sky as possible over as much of the ' Welkin ' as you can find . This location qualifies as you are on the coastal edge of the city with almost zero immediate civilisation and nothing very makor this side of South America . Access : You can come from Greenland and follow your GPS/Google-maps nose - Remuera Rd , St Johns Rd , St Heliers Bay Rd , ... OR Go along the waterfront - a nice drive even at 3am - to St Heliers and follow Glover Road up from the far end of the bay . If you want a guide / add on and there is a major shower happening , let me know ... :-) . <URL> The reason it is so good can be seen in the larger scale map below . East Coast Bays almost certainly offer some good spots . Kennedy Park above Castor Bay is probably excellent . Shakespeare Regional Park at the end of Whangaparaoa is also probably excellent - but I do n't know what their rules are for night time visiting . And Fletcher 's Bay at the far tip of the Coromandel Peninsular is a special place . It will take you a day to drive there , the final road in is still gravelled and the drop offs are frightening . Dark as dark it will be . And ( over 40 years ago ) that 's where I met my wife :-) . <URL> Star gazing sites : chx 's top NZ sites list is interesting . All but one are in the South Island . I do n't know why Ngongotaha should be better than any number of other NI locations , but , having had it noted , I 'll have to find out why . The point about Glover Park is not it 's " ordinary " stars alone but how good it is for a wide dark view for meteorites . I was utterly stunned by it the first time I visited . After driving through the very well lit city , which I was well used to , to come on this sudden vast Oasis of darkness is amazing . Good for random meteorites and satellites at any time . Concern was expressed re low angle viewing of the " Lyrids " this week . If I 'd known that this was what it was about the answer could have accommodated it . ( Lyrids viewing information here ] ( <URL> As will be seen - information is given starting at 5 degrees above the horizon and then rising to 20 degrees + over the next 4 hours . The map below shows distance from site in 5km steps . The table shows height an obstacle would need to be to block a 5 degree view . Rangitoto , 5 km away manages about 260 m when 434m is needed and nothing else comes closer . A much better site would be hard to imagine . Draggable whole of New Zealand topographical map centred on Rangitoto <URL> Index <URL>
Comparing <URL> to the <URL> used by mobile carriers in the US , the only one in common is band 2 . Unfortunately , this frequency band was previously used for 2G service , and has only recently been repurposed as an LTE band , so coverage is currently minimal . You should get <URL> on this band , but do n't count on it anywhere else .
I would recommend Ambleside : there 's a frequent bus service ( 555 ) from Windermere ( which it is very close to ) and you can do day-hikes without a bus to Grasmere and quite a few fells ( e.g. Fairfield ) . With short bus trip ( at least in Summer ) you can get up the Langdale valley , and on to Coniston or towards Keswick for day-hikes on some classic hills ( the Old Man of Coniston , Helvellyn , etc. ) You might also consider Keswick itself ( about 30 mins by bus from Penrith station ) which is handy for Blencathra and Skiddaw hikes and Derwent Water .
So now that I 've done it , I 've got some good tips . FIRST THING 'S FIRST . I SWEAR TO GOD , IF YOU CARVE YOUR NAME INTO ONE OF THESE TREES , I WILL HUNT YOU DOWN MYSELF . That being said -- I landed in Arcata airport , where I rented a car from Hertz right in the airport . They 're open pretty late and also rent to people as young as 20 , so it 's pretty damn convenient . From there , things get cool . If you 're impatient and want to see giant trees NOW , like I did , drive south to Humboldt Redwoods State Park . It 's only 50 miles down Highway 101 , and if you follow the signs for the Avenue of the Giants , you 'll be seeing massive trees in less than an hour from leaving the airport . The Avenue of the Giants is pretty long , and it 's not one straight road -- it takes a turn in at least one place . I followed it as far as the famous Drive Thru Tree , although that particular tourist attraction is pretty damn lame . Turns out it 's privately owned by a business who charges you something like $ 6 to drive through the tree , and there was literally a line of cars in front of me , like at a fast food drive-through . I turned around and left . Drive Thru Tree is a waste of time , in my books . If you head back north on the 101 ( catching spectacular ocean views all the while ... one of the best driving highways in the United States , no doubt ) , from the airport it 's about 75 miles to Crescent City , which sits on the coast beside the premier Redwood destination , Jedediah Smith Redwood State Park , as well as three other parks : Prairie Creek Redwoods State Park , Redwood National Park , and Del Norte Coast Redwoods State Park . Crescent City is definitely the place to stay the night if you did n't come for camping . Find a motel or hotel or whatever . If you 're there for camping , Jedediah Smith has a ton of campsites . I think it costs a little money ( $ 10 ? ) and I 'm pretty sure you 're supposed to make a reservation , or at least it 's a very good idea . The whole place was full when I went on a Saturday in the summer . SPEAKING OF WHICH , when to go . I went during the summer , in full heat of July , and the parks were cool and not muggy . They were amazing . Go in the summer . <URL> which includes contact information . Now on to the good stuff . So , given a full day to spend anywhere , my vote is to spend it in Jedediah Smith like I did . You will not be disappointed . Everything you 're coming for , you 'll find here . What I did is head up the 101 from Crescent City to where it splits off on 199 , which brings you straight into the park . If you 're going camping , you 'll see a clear sign on the right for the Jedediah Smith Campgrounds . The entire park is very well marked with signs ; you wo n't have any trouble finding things . From the campgrounds you can cross the Smith River on a really charming footbridge to find yourself at the park 's central trail crossroads and starting point . If you 're not camping , keep going up 199 until you see South Fork Road on your right . Follow that across two bridges and keep right onto Douglas Park Drive , then onto Howland Hill Road . This will bring you directly to parking for Stout Grove , and for the park 's central trail crossroads and starting point . NOW FOR THE HIKING . Bring bug spray . <URL> It might be wise to wear long pants . In my experience , the most poison oak was near the Stout Grove parking area , where it is abundant . I saw almost none along the trails I walked , but I 'm sure it 's here and there . Stout Grove , which ( for those coming from the campground ) is across Mill Creek and up a little staircase , is really gorgeous and worth seeing . Full of massive trees . It 's the first thing you 'll see if you start from the Stout Grove parking area . I then spent my day hiking down Mill Creek Trail <URL> , which is the crucial thing here . If you want to go hiking in the Redwood forests , I ca n't imagine a more perfect and beautiful trail . Everything you 're dreaming of is on this trail , which follows the picturesque and crystal clear Mill Creek down through the park . I had done some research on the biggest trees and wanted to see the Grove of Titans , which by many accounts is extremely challenging to find , involving arduous hiking across difficult terrain . I can now tell you this is not true . I 'm not going to tell you where it is , but I 'll tell you that two hours of <URL> <URL> <URL> via Google was more than enough for me to pinpoint the grove 's location almost exactly without ever having been there , and walk directly to it . To be honest I 'm more impressed by people who do n't find it than people who do . If you keep your eyes open , it 's hard to miss , and believe me , it 's worth seeing . As you go along , if you 're looking for it , you 'll keep saying " This tree looks bigger than the others -- is this the Grove of Titans ??? " but you wo n't be sure . Trust me , if and when you find the Grove of Titans , you will know it beyond the shadow of a doubt . Absolute awe will settle over you . Having given you more than enough information to find
There is significant tourism infrastructure in Cairns . This includes the international airport and a booking agency on every corner . There is good competition amongst operators . I do not think you will find better value for money in other locations up or down the coast . If you are looking to get away from the tourist areas , you could consider staying on an island ( e.g. Heron Island ) and doing multiple day scuba trips .
Seat 61 is the absolute definitive guide for international rail travel . It has all the information you need about routes , prices , and schedule . It also has plenty of links to the places where you can price up and buy tickets , and where to buy them if you ca n't buy them online . <URL> If you have more specific questions you can ask them here obviously .
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
There 's <URL> , <URL> at Luton airport . They might have guidebooks there . You might want to call and ask in advance . With enough luck you might even be able to pre-order them .
If you are comfortable driving in the US , a long term car rental ( ~ 1 month ) will be the best and most economical way to get around , even for cross country trips . I would recommend joining the <URL> . They provide assistance in charting out itineraries , along with maps and campground locations , which will help save on overnight accommodation . If you do not drive , an economical option to explore is the <URL> . Although well priced , you may have to plan routes before hand , there by limiting flexibility . Also , you will need to account for the expense involved in getting to and from the bus stops . For air travel , there has been an occasional airline offering an unlimited travel pass for a limited time period , but the benefits of these have been <URL> .
Unfortunately , ca n't provide any english-language links . Try to contact <URL> , they have amazing pack of offers , such as tour to the Lake Khövsgöl on horse or even hunting ! You 'll stay in lovely houses like this , they have sattelite TV there and traditional Mongolian furniture :
I 'm planning on visiting Texas ( Flying to Houston , planning to drive around somewhere between Houston and New Orleans ) from The Netherlands some time soon . We want to do a mini ( = 2 weeks ) roadtrip in and around the Houston area . Well , with this in mind you would want to avoid the summer months . In Houston it can get quite hot and its humid since its right on the coast . The drive to New Orleans ( which I have done as well ) is nice , as you get to go across the bottom of Texas and Louisiana ( on I-10 ) . Its about a 6 hour drive ( depending on the traffic ) . You may even catch a glimpse of a riverboat casino around Beaumont ( the border town to Louisiana ) . However , we are not used to hot and humid weather and would like to avoid really hot weather if possible . So far I have been reading good things about the end of October , beginning of November . ( Good temperature ) Will this be a good time to visit this area ? What about hurricanes or storms ? Do some tourist attractions close during specific months ? Thunderstorms and other severe weather is a spring time phenomenon . I would be surprised if you ran into a tornado warning in October or November , as during these months the weather is getting progressively cooler . This would a good time to visit as you 'd have quite a respite from the heat . The major tourist attractions in Houston have to do with the space program , and these are open during your time frame . I spent a great amount of time in central Texas ; here is what I can tell you : Texas is big . It is the largest of the contiguous states ; ( the largest by area is actually Alaska ) . You can find all kinds of terrain , environment and even weather in Texas . You can easily spend a few weeks and still not explore everything there is to see . It gets hot in the summer time . You are looking at temperatures around 45C during the day . At night it cools down a bit . The really humid part of Texas is in the south near Houston / San Antonio . If its not hot , then you have to worry about severe weather ( tornadoes ) and thunderstorms . They are rarely as bad as what the movies show . The midwest is also known as tornado alley . In my opinion : July - August ( hot + humid ) September - November ( best time in my opinion , very nice mild weather , and it gets pleasantly cool at night ) December - Jan ( avoid , it can get cold during these months ) . Late Feb - Mid-march ( great time to visit , lots of sporting events and great weather ) . Budget wise , Texas is actually quite affordable . The main metropolitan areas ( Dallas , Austin , Houston ) have similar price structures as any other major city . However , taxes are quite forgiving . My personal favorite city is Austin because I am a fan of live music and you can always find live music in the clubs/bars . It is known as the " Live Music Capital of the World " . Try to stay in the outskirts as accommodation within the city limits can get quite expensive .
end question
start question
Amsterdam : How to get from the Airport to the Hard Rock Cafe by public transport ?
Provided you would like to go to the Hardrock Cafe in Amsterdam : take the train from Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam Central station ( 15 minutes or so ; you can plan details on <URL> ) . From Amsterdam Central Station take a tram number 1 , 2 or 5 and get out on <URL> ( again , some 15 minutes ) . <URL> ( 5 minutes or less )
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
South West Rocks ( and Arakoon ) is indeed an amazing place - I was lucky enough to grow up near-by , and holidayed at " the rocks " at least once a year . The nearest major city to South West Rocks is Kempsey , which is on both the Sydney-Brisbane rail line , as well as on the main highway between those cities . There are 2 bus services that run multiple daily services between Kempsey and South West Rocks , although keep in mind that at least some of these services double as school buses so you may want to avoid those particular services . <URL> <URL> ( Timetable may or may not be current ! ) The Busways route starts on Belgrave St , but not at the end where the train station is , but instead down near the highway . This is where most of the long distance coaches stop .
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
As a Londoner who does that route a lot : The easiest option is to take a taxi , which have plenty of room for luggage . However , it will be quite expensive , probably around # 80 . The cheapest option ( excluding buses , which would be ridiculously tedious ) would be the tube , <URL> - assuming you are paying cash ( you can save money if you <URL> ( or use a <URL> ) , which drops the price to # 3 or # 5 depending on the time of day ) . Fortunately in your case you can take the Piccadilly line the whole way there . The tube is more cumbersome with luggage , but it 's doable if you are on a budget . ( <URL> ) A reasonable compromise for one person might be the <URL> to Paddington , then a taxi to Kings ' Cross , which is only a short journey . However , it 's # 34 return each , so you wo n't save much money over a taxi with two of you .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
<URL> : Budapest Franz Liszt International Airport ... is the country 's largest airport , located about 16 km ( 10 mi ) southeast of the city centre . Budapest Airport is notoriously hard to get in and out of . While a train connection between the city and the terminal has been built , it only served Terminal 1 , which is now defunct , and the currently used Terminal 2 is an at least 10 mins drive away , on the very other side of the airport . Public transportation between the city and airport requires changing from bus to rail or metro and takes between 40 mins to an hour . There is a single and long two-lane road connecting the city and Ferihegy , and it unsurprisingly gets congested at peak times , especially on the way to the airport , so bear this in mind and depart for the airport early ( at least an hour before the boarding time to make sure you clear security ) . Of course , you mention you 're travelling at night , so traffic would be less . And you 're wondering specifically about going from Kőbánya-Kispest . <URL> , would seem to indicate 16-24 minutes travel time from Kőbánya-Kispest to the airport . I played with it a bit and traffic seems to start to increase after 6am , but you should be at the airport well before that , especially if it 's an international flight .
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
how to start : Start small . Do n't think you can cycle long distances without getting in shape . Even across town may well be a challenge for you right now . So start on that , set yourself REALISTIC goals to get in shape , not just your legs but your arms and lungs as well . Start with say 10km trips , then gradually increase that until you can comfortably drive the distance you think your average day 's leg will be in a reasonable amount of time ( would n't do to plan a 200km trip a day and find yourself exhausted after driving 100km in 8 hours for example ) . Do n't think you can exist on energy drinks and granola bars alone . Yes , they make great energy boosts but they 're not exactly healthy as your sole or main source of food . What bike : WAY too broad to answer . Would depend heavily on the routes you plan to take . But overall , you probably want one that 's rugged , relatively light to drive , and is easy to repair BY YOU in the field with whatever 's available from the local blacksmith shoppe . Especially in rural areas ( and many third world countries ) you should n't expect to find well equipped bicycle repair shops with high tech parts and the ability to repair that carbon-carbon frame you just broke driving over a dirt filled pothole . A steel pipe frame is a lot easier to maintain , but of course heavier . Again , set yourself realistic targets . Do n't plan a round the world trip as your first major adventure . Instead plan a trip to the next province for a long weekend , or a week to the next country over.Few hundred kilometers to get a taste , and close enough you can catch a train back in a few hours if things go horribly wrong . Gradually widen that . Maybe a year later drive a thousand kilometers over a week or so , year after that make it 2000 in a month ( yes , as you get further from home things slow down , your support network becomes smaller and slimmer , etc. ) . And then you get the biggest problem : visa , invites ( which you need for many countries ) , travel restrictions , finding places to stay , healthcare , etc. etc. . It 's not for nothing that such endeavours are often undertaken by larger teams with a home support crew handling stuff like that , which can sometimes take months to get the permissions for a country you just have to cross because your travel plans just changed ( natural disasters , wars , etc. ) .
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
Buses seem to be quite reliable in terms of schedule in Colombia . There are plenty of departures and they usually go faster than the predicted time . I took several buses , usually in the evening and always arrived 30min to 1h ahead of schedule . The quoted time could be to account for traffic at other hours . For longer distances , there are overnight buses but guidebooks do not recommend them due to safety concerns . I have no experience to confirm or deny that . Finding schedules for Colombian buses is not so easy though , see m <URL> which covers the norther Altantic coast . For the highlights , see <URL> and <URL> . Some of these routes are overnight or even more .
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
During the strike there is restricted timetable - so you maybe have to wait longer , but you can get to Mainz by train . Take S8 or RB/RE to Mainz Main Station ( Mainz Hauptbahnhof ) . According to <URL> S8 will run every hour . Another option would be to get a ride . Check <URL> or <URL> - there are few rides from Frankfurt Airport to Mainz .
Once in winter/spring , I traveled to <URL> by public transport . That was no big deal : They have a regular train station . I booked my ticket in advance using <URL> , because I was traveling from Germany . Getting to the top of the mountains from Kitzbühel is easy : Being a ski resort , they have a good infrastructure of cable cars . But , in fact , hiking up is more fun . Concerning prices , if it 's similar to Germany , it 's a good idea to book long distance trains in advance , because tickets then usually are cheaper . For regional trains , however , I expect it does n't matter when you book . According to Wikipedia 's German <URL> ( as of June 2013 ) : Long distance trains : RJ , ICE , ÖBB-IC , IC , EC , EN , D , IC-BUS Regional trains : R , REX , S , EZ
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
You are correct that most people travel by car . The main roads are excellent and signage is impeccable . The best I 've seen anywhere ! There are even maps along the road every few hundred kilometers . The other main form of transportation are buses . Within a city , they are easy to take and there is also an extensive network of bus routes . Most , if not all , are available from June to August . The central station in Reykjavik is very well connect but as you go to most other cities , you basically encounter buses going in 2 or 3 directions at most . It 's hard to get lost ! The main issue if with timing , inter-city buses have fixed schedules which are not that frequent . I recall 1 to 4 times daily , depending on the popularity of the route . The tourist-oriented options do a circuit which lets you see more than one site in a day without having to time the buses yourself . When you consider timing , your schedule not only gets dictated by bus timetables but you also arrive and leave exactly at the same time as everyone else . You lose the sense desolation and immersion with nature is lessened as the hordes of people coming out of buses are large and noisy . You can bridge some gaps in the bus network with domestic flights and even ferries . Usually short-cut between fjords . These are certainly not cheap and neither are car rentals by the way . I met a few people who brought their own car from Denmark since there is a thrice-weekly ferry which lands on the east side of Iceland . One of them basically drove from Italy in order to have is own car there .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
Picking a random date in the future , <URL> shows that flying to Larnaca and then going by airport shuttle is probably the cheapest option in terms of paying . However , if you 're searching elsewhere for flights , check out both Larnaca and Ercan as options , and flying out of both CDG and ORY in Paris , as they seem to produce quite different prices . Other than that , you 're down to hitching or cycling - driving and taking a ferry looks extremely exorbitant !
end question
start question
Do I need a transit visa for a Russian overflight ?
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
You should apply to the <URL> or the <URL> in Rotterdam . Here is the <URL> . You may get a visa ( tourist card ) also through your travel agency , even if you do not plan your trip via the agency .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
Special pants are a must . I 'd start looking at sites like <URL> to get an idea . One thing that I would very much suggest is if you have any avid ski enthusiast friends talk to them because they would give you pointers on what is good and where to get it . But a short list for what you need is : Warm socks Pants Warm boots . Ski Gloves Ski Jacket ( Simple warm or even down jacket wo n't do ) I am sure I am missing something on this list but this will be a good start .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
In short the answer is yes you do need a separate visa for Belarus . Your Russian Student Visa does n't allow you to enter Belarus . The reason that it has the names of both countries is because the form they use is exactly the same . From the <URL> : Although Russia and Belarus use the same migration card , travelers should be aware that each country maintains its own visa regime . U.S. citizens wishing to travel to both nations must apply for two separate visas . A traveler entering Russia directly from Belarus is not required to obtain a new migration card , but at his or her option may do so if blank ones are available at the time of entry .
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
You do n't need a transit visa as a Nicaraguan transiting Shanghai Pudong en route to Taipei : / 14APR16 / 1550 UTC National Nicaragua ( NI ) Transit China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) Destination Chinese Taipei ( TW ) China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of confirmed onward airline tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours Source : <URL> The same holds for travel in the opposite direction : <URL>
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
end question
start question
What car rental insurance should I get if my credit card provides some coverage ?
TL ; DR : You need liability insurance with a high limit . Your credit card wo n't get you that . Try to get your liability insurance from home , and failing that buy it at the rental desk . Your credit card might help you if you wreck the rental car , but read the fine print if you are relying on your credit card for that . You Need Liability Insurance ( from somewhere ) You need to secure liability insurance of some sort . If you are involved in an accident where there are personal injuries , your liability can easily exceed your net worth . In other words , an accident can bankrupt you . Exactly how much you might be personally liable for will generally depend on the following : the particulars of the accident the laws in the place where the accident occurred the liability insurance you carry By definition , you ca n't predict an accident . Getting a good handle on the laws regarding liability in motor-vehicle accidents in every place you travel is unrealistic . So , the only way you can mitigate your risk is by controlling the liability insurance you carry . What should my liability insurance limit be ? Insurance policies often have a maximum liability that they will shelter you from . $ 1 million seems to be common in North America . What does the limit mean ? Suppose you are in an accident where you are ultimately found liable for $ 3 million and you have a policy with a $ 1 million limit . Your insurance will pay $ 1 million to the plaintiff and you will owe the other $ 2 million . So , how do you work out how much coverage you need ? Warning : Unpleasant stuff coming up . If you do n't like thinking about accidents , horrible situations , and worst-case scenarios , skip to the next section . The answer is to get the highest liability coverage limit you can get . Everyone else , read on . Here 's how I work out how much liability insurance I carry . Based on some cursory research I once did , it is my understanding that many courts use , in part , lifetime lost wages and cost-of-care to calculate damages . So , the worst-case accident is probably maiming a vehicle of young professionals . Let 's make some assumptions : there are 5 people in the car all are professionals earning $ 70,000 per year all are 23 years old all are expected to live until 80 years old all are injured so badly that they ca n't ever work again all require care costing $ 30,000 per year for the rest of their lives The math goes like this : $ 100,000 per person per year x 5 people x 67 years = $ 33.5 million . You wo n't be able to buy a policy that gives you that much coverage ( the highest I 've found is $ 10 million ) , so just get the highest coverage you can obtain . Some of you might be thinking " I do n't need liability insurance because I do n't have any net worth to lose if I am liable . " That may be true . You may be broke and you may be able to maim a car full of people without you or your non-existent insurance paying them a cent . But , by knowingly driving around uninsured you are effectively saying " I am putting other humans at risk of life and limb and have declined to provide them with any possibility of compensation if I hurt them just so I can save a few bucks on insurance , and I think that 's OK . " It 's your choice . I know where my moral compass points . Your credit card ( most likely ) wo n't provide you with liability insurance . I have only seen <URL> that offers liability coverage of any kind for rental cars -- there might be others out there , but no card I have been eligible for provides liability coverage . ( If you do find one others , please link to the policy wording document in the comments . ) Credit card policies typically provide coverage for loss and damage to the vehicle but not liability coverage . You can get liability insurance from the rental car company , but you wo n't really know what you 're buying . Every car rental company I have rented from offers some sort of " liability insurance " at the point where you sign the rental agreement . There are a few problems with buying such insurance : the coverage limit is usually $ 1 million or less there are usually all sorts of exclusions in the policy wording sometimes the rental desk can not even provide you with a policy wording document assuming you can get a policy wording document from the desk , it would generally take hours of reading to understand what you are actually covered for it is almost impossible to obtain a policy wording document beforehand , and , even if you can get a rental company to provide you with one , there 's no guarantee that the one you agree to when you pick up your car will be the same Despite all of these problems , buying coverage at the rental desk is almost certainly better than not having any coverage . Furthermore , there are many circumstances where it is your only practical means of obtaining liability coverage . Get liability coverage for your rental car from an insurer in your home country/state/province . It is common that you can obtain liability insuran
The cheapest option to get to the city is to take an MTA bus directly from the airport . You can transfer for free to one other bus line or , if you use a prepaid MetroCard " gold " , to the subway . The fare is currently $ 2.75 , but depending on which MetroCard you buy , you may spend slightly less . JFK is served by five MTA bus lines , all of which have a free transfer to at least one subway line . Three of the five stop at terminal 5 : the Q3 , the Q10 , and the B15 . The others do not stop at any passenger terminal . You 'll most likely land at the wrong terminal , so you 'll have to take the AirTrain to the bus stop , but this is free of charge . Plan on at least an extra hour for this trip , compared to taking the AirTrain to Jamaica or Howard Beach . I think most people 's time is worth more that $ 5 an hour , but maybe you have additional factors to consider . See <URL> for the Queens bus map .
Your passport is an important document and it should be kept safe at all times . One of the best ways in general is not to have it with you but keep it in the hotel safe . This varies by location and in some places , it is safer with you . In Singapor , crime is very low and there should not be a problem to have it with you . My strategy is to keep a photocopy of the important passport page with me . That copy is folded up and takes very little space . It is not an official document but has enough information to show who I am . Note that in some countries you have the obligation to keep a piece of identification with you at all times . For a foreigner , this often means the passport but not necesarily . Any travel book of the location you are going to usually references the rule but to have the official word , consult the embassy .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
1 to 3 months is not too long term to get travel insurance . Many insurance companies offer travel insurance and there are many options depending on what you want covered , how much you want to cover it for , and the duration of the coverage . Your travel agent might only suggest one company though which may not be the cheapest or best . They seem to have some kind of exclusive arrangements in my experience . One factor is the cost of healthcare in the destination countries . For travel to the United States the general recommendation is to get " unlimited " health coverage , which is of course the most expensive . For property theft and damage , Visa Card provides a kind of automatic travel insurance on items purchased with it . I do not know if Mastercard has the same policy . I did n't want to do too much searching so I stopped at the first one that seemed to answer your question . I have never used them so do not take this as a reccommendation . <URL> advertises " long term travel insurance " and says " Indefinitely extend your policy while you are away " . There are some restrictions which should n't affect you such as being younger than 66 years and being from one of the countries in their list ( I noticed Yemen was n't included ) . Also the price depends on whether or not you will enter these three countries : USA , Canda , and Japan
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
This is less than an answer , but more than a comment ... A large percentage of your travel budget will be spent on the cruise itself , given that it includes lodging , food , and transportation . As it appears you do n't have your heart set on seeing a particular part of the Caribbean , the next important question is : what is your " cruising style " ? I 've been on three cruise lines : Holland America , Royal Caribbean , and Norwegian . I 'd go on another cruise in a heartbeat on one of them -- because it fits the sort of traveling my husband and I like to do . If you like to dress up and eat high-end food , the cruise line you want is n't the one that caters to honeymooners on a tight budget or to families with small kids . If you like things to be super-flexible , you do n't want the cruise line that assigns you a nightly dining reservation at their one restaurant . And so on ... If you like upscale , be aware that all cruise lines put their best efforts into their longer cruises . I 've been on cruises ranging from 4-14 nights , and the experience ( and amenities ! ) pretty closely tracked with the trip length . Once you 've figured out what cruise line and trip length work for you , there are likely to only be a few options left . Take whichever of them works best -- there really are no bad Caribbean trips ( so long as the weather cooperates , of course ) .
Hiring cars in western europe ( UK/Spain/France / Switzerland ) , I 've had pre-approved amounts on my card of between nothing and # ( or maybe $ ) 1000 . None of these were especially flash cars - I can imagine the place that asked for 1000 off me would seek twice that for a " luxury " vehicle . In the # 400-800 range seems to be typical . You could always contact the customer services of the hire car company you intend to use to enquire .
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
Have you tried phoning the FRRO ( different from the FRO ) to ask them ? Google suggests you may be able to get the FRRO to issue you with an exit visa despite the missing residence permit . Experiences with the FRO seem more hit and miss , but you could always drop in and ask them if you have the time to spare ...
TL ; DR : You need liability insurance with a high limit . Your credit card wo n't get you that . Try to get your liability insurance from home , and failing that buy it at the rental desk . Your credit card might help you if you wreck the rental car , but read the fine print if you are relying on your credit card for that . You Need Liability Insurance ( from somewhere ) You need to secure liability insurance of some sort . If you are involved in an accident where there are personal injuries , your liability can easily exceed your net worth . In other words , an accident can bankrupt you . Exactly how much you might be personally liable for will generally depend on the following : the particulars of the accident the laws in the place where the accident occurred the liability insurance you carry By definition , you ca n't predict an accident . Getting a good handle on the laws regarding liability in motor-vehicle accidents in every place you travel is unrealistic . So , the only way you can mitigate your risk is by controlling the liability insurance you carry . What should my liability insurance limit be ? Insurance policies often have a maximum liability that they will shelter you from . $ 1 million seems to be common in North America . What does the limit mean ? Suppose you are in an accident where you are ultimately found liable for $ 3 million and you have a policy with a $ 1 million limit . Your insurance will pay $ 1 million to the plaintiff and you will owe the other $ 2 million . So , how do you work out how much coverage you need ? Warning : Unpleasant stuff coming up . If you do n't like thinking about accidents , horrible situations , and worst-case scenarios , skip to the next section . The answer is to get the highest liability coverage limit you can get . Everyone else , read on . Here 's how I work out how much liability insurance I carry . Based on some cursory research I once did , it is my understanding that many courts use , in part , lifetime lost wages and cost-of-care to calculate damages . So , the worst-case accident is probably maiming a vehicle of young professionals . Let 's make some assumptions : there are 5 people in the car all are professionals earning $ 70,000 per year all are 23 years old all are expected to live until 80 years old all are injured so badly that they ca n't ever work again all require care costing $ 30,000 per year for the rest of their lives The math goes like this : $ 100,000 per person per year x 5 people x 67 years = $ 33.5 million . You wo n't be able to buy a policy that gives you that much coverage ( the highest I 've found is $ 10 million ) , so just get the highest coverage you can obtain . Some of you might be thinking " I do n't need liability insurance because I do n't have any net worth to lose if I am liable . " That may be true . You may be broke and you may be able to maim a car full of people without you or your non-existent insurance paying them a cent . But , by knowingly driving around uninsured you are effectively saying " I am putting other humans at risk of life and limb and have declined to provide them with any possibility of compensation if I hurt them just so I can save a few bucks on insurance , and I think that 's OK . " It 's your choice . I know where my moral compass points . Your credit card ( most likely ) wo n't provide you with liability insurance . I have only seen <URL> that offers liability coverage of any kind for rental cars -- there might be others out there , but no card I have been eligible for provides liability coverage . ( If you do find one others , please link to the policy wording document in the comments . ) Credit card policies typically provide coverage for loss and damage to the vehicle but not liability coverage . You can get liability insurance from the rental car company , but you wo n't really know what you 're buying . Every car rental company I have rented from offers some sort of " liability insurance " at the point where you sign the rental agreement . There are a few problems with buying such insurance : the coverage limit is usually $ 1 million or less there are usually all sorts of exclusions in the policy wording sometimes the rental desk can not even provide you with a policy wording document assuming you can get a policy wording document from the desk , it would generally take hours of reading to understand what you are actually covered for it is almost impossible to obtain a policy wording document beforehand , and , even if you can get a rental company to provide you with one , there 's no guarantee that the one you agree to when you pick up your car will be the same Despite all of these problems , buying coverage at the rental desk is almost certainly better than not having any coverage . Furthermore , there are many circumstances where it is your only practical means of obtaining liability coverage . Get liability coverage for your rental car from an insurer in your home country/state/province . It is common that you can obtain liability insuran
The bag will remain on the claim belt until eventually an airport worker removes it and takes it to lost property . If the claim belt is used for many flights at a busy airport then of course that could be a long time ( all day , perhaps ) . It is not unusual for international bags to go unclaimed for a long time ( many hours perhaps ) because of immigration delays . In most places bag delivery is contracted out to the local airport or a local contractor , so the airline will not be concerned . The bag tag barcode on the bag identifies the baggage in the global baggage computer system . Information there also includes your name and telephone number , which might be used to contact you . However in all probability no one will care that much . Some identification may be required to retrieve the bag later . If there is a customs concern the airport may be unable to release the bag to you until that is settled . When there was a problem at London Gatwick last year , British Airways told customers to go home instead of waiting all night ; their bags were subsequently delivered to them by courier .
Banff is about <URL> , and is worth visiting if you 're not going to be back in Calgary anytime soon . The normal list of Calgary attractions : Calgary Zoo Canada Olympic Park Spruce Meadows Telus World of Science Fort Calgary More information : <URL>
Your originating airline will be the one that checks to make sure you are leaving Thailand before your entry permission ends . They may not let you board if you can not document that you are leaving Thailand within 30 days of your arrival . And the only true proof of this is a departing airline ticket to a neighboring or home country . Train tickets and bus tickets are not legal proof , but maybe accepted ( then again may not be ) by the agent . Thai Immigration rarely checks this aspect , but they do have the right to , and I have personally witnessed them asking people to prove such . So not having proof is a double crap shoot . Best bet is to buy an airline ticket to a neighboring country that leaves before your 30 days are up . Either a dirt cheap throw away airfare ( Air Asia has a sale going on right now ) or an expensive fully refundable airfare . Then you can leave your flight home as you originally planned . You can also apply for a tourist visa in advance , which would give you 60 days entry and possibility for a 30 day extension . While this still requires proof of exit , airlines tend to overlook the outbound rule when boarding ( but not 100 % guaranteed , as I had to talk my way on once with a Non-Imm visa for a longer stay ) . You have to weigh costs of the Visa vs cost for a cheap airfare .
I had this same issue with a hostel in the UK . I pressed the hostel for an explanation , and also found a forum thread of hostel managers discussing this policy . Both gave the same explanation . From their point of view , it was so they could take the money out my account if I did n't show up . They said they do it only in busy periods when they know they 'll be full , so they do n't lose money turning customers away only to find the booked customers do n't show up . But do n't do it ! Even if you trust this hostel not to deliberately rip you off , you 're putting all the credit card information someone would need to commit credit card fraud , unsecured , unencrypted , stored on ( if you 're lucky ) a knackered old laptop sitting in a reception , or ( if you 're unlucky ) in a pile of paper printouts left lying around unattended while the sole staffer that shift fixes some emergency . It would be shockingly easy for a criminal , or even just a random opportunist like a disgruntled hostel staffer , local computer repair guy or guest , to obtain enough information to clone your card or raid your account . I refused - and instead agreed to pay part ( 60 % if I remember right ) of the bill up front via PayPal . This safely resolved their no-show concern and , while not ideal , it secured the accommodation I wanted when everywhere else was full . It 's not super uncommon for busy places to insist on upfront payment - my only unhappiness with this was that it seems dishonest that this had n't been apparent at the time I made the booking , and that they did n't respect the deposit I 'd already paid . HostelWorld give some card details like card number , name , etc to the hostel , but ( for good reason ) not enough for the hostel to simply take a debit using a standard card machine . A common , expensive problem for hostel owners is people booking in busy periods then not showing up , leaving rooms and beds empty that could be full . Also ( apparently ) the deposit you pay to HostelWorld stays at HostelWorld as their fee , so in the event of a no-show , the hostel itself gets nothing , not even a deposit ( I only have one hostel 's word on this ) . This is a crude , low-tech , possibly illegal and certainly non-PCI-compliant workaround . Here 's <URL> . Somebody rightly points out it : may breach your T&amp;C 's with your card provider , as well as not being PCI compliant ! ... but it appears to be moderately popular none-the-less ... It 's unlikely that the hostel itself would scam people ( but possible ) , as hostels live and die on their reputation ( except well-located tourist traps where all bets are off including " will I wake up with all my luggage and both kidneys " ) , but still , I 'd strongly recommend not complying because : Your full credit card info will be sitting unencrypted on a computer system not set up to safely store credit card information . They might even be in a pile of printed emails sitting on a table , for all you know . For an online shop to accept and store credit card details , it needs to pass tough checks on its server security ( PCI compliance ) or face a heavy fine . Plain text in an email would definitely fail those checks . Even if you trust the hostel , you do n't know that you can trust everyone who uses the hostel computer . The hostel owner might be legit ( albeit ignorant/reckless with their guest 's credit cards ) , but it 'd just take one disgruntled underpaid receptionist , or one dodgy local computer repair person , or one guest who convinces the receptionist that they " urgently " must use the hostel computer for 5 minutes , or one tech-savvy guest or neighbour ( email is not secure ) ... Since the motivation is usually all about the hostel protecting itself from no-shows , you should be able to negotiate a compromise where you some of the fee up front . If they wo n't , stay somewhere else : they either have more sinister reasons , or are not sufficiently tech-literate to receive money by PayPal ( therefore definitely ca n't be trusted to keep your card details secure ! ) . Here 's some excerts from my email exchange to give you an example : Them : Thanks for booking with us ! During busy periods we pre authorise credit cards in order to cover your booking fee should you not arrive I 'm afraid were not able to complete pre authorisation . In order to do this we need your CVC number that unfortunately was not provided when you made the booking . In order for us to guarantee your reservation please contact us immediately Me : ( paraphrasing ) hell no , I 've never been asked this before , I 'm not putting my card details in an email , and you 've already got my deposit . Play nicely or I 'll claim a refund on the deposit , book elsewhere and report you to HostelWorld for attempted credit card fraud . ( but worded more politely ) Them : We do not receive deposit . # 8.64 was paid already and it is a Hostelworld.com fee . In our Terms and Conditions is stated , that we do pre - authorization and in order to do that , we need CVC number . There is
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
The usual rule of thumb is you get a better rate at the destination , but it never hurts to check beforehand . Look online for the " sell " rate of NZ Dollars from a Japanese bank and the " buy " rate for Japanese Yen at a NZ bank . Then do the math . If you choose Japan , the exchange service may not have small denomination NZ currency and definitely no coins , so they will exchange however much fits into the notes they have onhand and give you back the rest in Yen . If you choose New Zealand , I would try to swap your coins and notes for the biggest denomination Yen notes you can get before leaving Japan , rather than show up with a fist full of small notes . Any coins you have leftover should be spent at the airport or deposited into a charity box .
There 's a few reasons : There 's actually less risk of losing both keys that way than splitting them up . It 's easier to keep track of one set of keys rather then two . One-way rentals also cause a problem with the car and a key ending up in two different places . A key is not easily identifiable to a specific car so once it 's detached , they might as well toss it . Of course , this is a decision each agency will make on it 's own .
It 's common in Europe for many cars to have a Diesel or Gasoline version . Usually , but it is not a rule , if the model of the car has a letter D it 's a Diesel car , but this is not a rule . It 's not a rule as well for the car to have a letter on the model name . Usually in Diesel cars you will find some warnings about it . The rental car agent will tell you Next to the gas tank a warning about the type of petrol . The diameter of gasoline hose has a different size of a diesel hose . It will be hard to put the wrong hose inside the tank . The label on the key could have DIESEL written on it ( HERTZ does that )
end question
start question
United States National Radio Quiet Zone : Impact on travellers ?
I lived in that zone for three years ( 1993-1996 ) , and I have traveled in it several times more recently , but this is the first I have ever heard of its existence . How did you even become aware of it ? I lived in Lexington , VA , and my travels have been mainly on the Blue Ridge and in the Shenandoah and James River valleys . I ca n't speak for areas closer to the telescopes , but in the vast majority of the zone , you will find no impact whatsoever .
No . This is not generally done . There may be some regional variation in average tips unrelated to the minimum wage , but the broad tipping guidelines do not change . There are many aspects of the tipping system that are problematic , and the difference in wages at restaurants between wait staff and non-tipped staff , including the people who actually cook your food , is certainly one of those aspects . Statewide variation in minimum wage laws are another problematic part of the system . However , that 's not something you can really address as a customer . Some restaurants in the US , especially certain high-end ones , are experimenting with <URL> , instead charging a service fee ( or higher food prices ) and paying staff more , with mixed results for the restaurants and the staff . If you 're at such a restaurant , the policy will be made clear to you on the menu or otherwise . But in general , as a customer , you are not privy to the financial arrangements of the restaurant and its staff , including whatever tip pooling or sharing arrangements may exist ( bartenders and bussers often receive some share of tips ; the situation for kitchen staff is much more complicated , as including them in tip pools may be illegal ) . You are not able to single-handedly fix the problems with the system . All you can really do is tip your waitstaff well according to the prevailing customs and try , to the extent you can know , to patronize restaurants that take good care of their employees .
Many people use <URL> 's <URL> for this exact purpose ! I 'm in the <URL> and <URL> groups and I would say the larger part of the traffic in both groups is travellers wanting to meet up with other travellers at their destination . Note that you must join each group you wish to read , which of course means you also need to be a member of couchsurfing . ( You do not have to be a " verified " member , so you do n't have to pay any money . )
Yes , you will be offered food for free in the Nizzamuddin Eruklam Express ( 12284 ) as you are already charged in ticket . For evidence see the screenshot below which I took in the IRCTC website while booking ticket for the same train . <URL> To answer your second question the train usually reaches Manglore on time .
There is a priority access lane at the security checkpoints used by UA . DTW &amp; UA are also on the <URL> list . That would be the better bet . Get pre-authorized by TSA and go through even quicker than priority . One thing to think about , however , is that TSA-Pre gets you through security faster and that 's it . Premier Access gets you boarded quicker ( usually ) , or " before the unwashed masses , " as the premier forums all call us regular folk . ( Personal Op-Ed here : I would n't take premier access if you gave it to me , or at least wo n't use it . I do n't like planes , and prefer to sit in the lounge until the absolutely last minute , but that 's just me . )
It depends . The question is if they block access to signaling control builing or not . You can not predict this beforehand , but generally they do . If signalling control building is inaccessible , no trains can pass in the area controlled by that specific building . If the signaling control buildings remain functioning , you can count on some trains , but can not predict which trains will be cancelled . This implies that it is not possible to count on any regularity in the style of " every x hours " . Some general rules : National action , supported by all major unions : not a single train will ride . Regional action , supported by all major unions : not a single train will ride in that region . This can also include trains coming from or going to the region in question . National action , with limited support : impossible to predict for reasons mentioned above . It mainly depends where signalling control buildings are occupied and where ( if any ) tracks are blocked . Regional action , with limited support : still harder to predict , but you get the point , I guess . For the strikes with a limited support ( like only a minor union ) , it is often possible to predict which regions will be mainly affected , because the minor unions often have regional strongholds where they are important , while they might be negligible elsewhere . If you are referring to the strike on December 15th , you are in the first case . Not a single train will run from or to the airport .
It 's been several years since I 've been to Dorst Creek , but based on what I remember ... It really comes down to which campsite you have booked . Several of the camp sites in this ground are actually fairly small - much smaller than you 'd normally expect in a National Park campground . Other campsites are much larger , especially those on the outsides of the loops . Depending on the exact site you have booked , 3 tents may be , at best , a stretch - especially if the sites next to you have more than one tent on them . You can find a map of the campground <URL> which will give you some idea of how large your campsite might be . If you find that one of your tents does n't fit , then I would suggest asking nicely at a few nearby sites ( especially the larger ones ) to see if they would be willing to share . Officially this is not allowed , but given that you are already staying in the campground you likely wo n't have too much trouble finding another site that would be willing to let you put up one tent . Also , keep an eye out on recreation.gov for available sites - people do cancel , and it 's not uncommon to be able to snag something in the week or so beforehand . Enjoy Sequoia ( and if you get the chance , Kings Canyon ) - they are a great pair of parks . If they were n't so far away I 'd be there every few months :)
I imagine it would depend almost entirely on the wording in the PDS . If the insurer uses a term like " war zone " they should be defining it somewhere . Otherwise , contact them for clarification on the specific regions you 're travelling too . That said , none of the insurers I 've looked at use the term . They only talk about harm caused by war or military activities , often in very similar terms : <URL> We will not pay under any circumstance if [ ... ] your claim arises from any act of war , whether war is declared or not or from any rebellion , revolution , insurrection or taking of power by the military . <URL> We will not pay for [ ... ] a loss that arises from any act of war ( whether war is declared or not ) or from any rebellion , revolution , insurrection or taking of power by the military . <URL> We will not cover any loss or damage as a result of , or caused by [ ... ] war or warlike activities , invasion , acts of foreign enemies , civil war , revolution , insurrection or act of a military power Assuming I 'm interpreting these correctly , they would still cover you in regions with conflict , so long as your loss/injury/etc was n't caused by the conflict itself . You really need to check these details with the insurer themselves though . It does n't matter what I , <URL> or <URL> think , only what you get in writing from your insurance provider .
I just went through and looked up all the ratings . Below is the list of National Parks , sorted by rating and then by number of reviews as of September 1 , 2016 . * Glacier and Denali National Parks both stated 3.8 with no review count on the Google homepage , but 3.7 and review count when looking on Google Maps . I do not know why there is a discrepancy , but all other ratings are from the Google homepage .
The Mexican consulate in San Francisco says that you do not need a visa as long as you have valid and unexpired USA visa ( or permanent residence ) . Other nationalities , Non-US Permanent Residents . Starting May 1st , 2010 , all those foreign nationals , regardless of their nationality , visiting Mexico for tourist , business or transit matters wo n't need a Mexican visa as long as they have with them a valid and not expired USA visa in the passport . In this context , if you have a valid US visa in the passport you do not need to obtain a Mexican visa . The website is <URL> . Similar , but more clearly stated information is available on the Consulate of Mexico in India <URL> which says : : : NOTICE FOR HOLDERS OF USA VISA : : Holders of any valid visa for the United States of America ( any nationality ) DO NOT require visa to enter Mexico on tourist , business and transit purposes only .
The lottery part is merely for the right to apply for a Green Card , really , so if you are not selected in the lottery it is not considered a failed Visa application . My brother actually won the lottery and could have applied , but his plans had changed since entering and decided not to proceed . You can still use the ESTA and visa waiver stuff in future , in fact you can have more than one visa application outstanding at the same time , according to these imigration lawyers <URL> . It 's probably worth noting however , that having applied for immigration <URL> the US immigration authorities view of any subsequent visa applications , as they will take it as a signal that you wish to migrate to the USA . So if you apply for a tourist visa they make take that into account and decide that your real intent is to stay permanently . This is generally more of a problem for applicants form countries with a high rate of illegal immigration via overstaying short-stay visas , for example , in which I doubt Sweden ranks highly .
So , here 's what happened . My research organisation said I should apply for a <URL> . I was totally taken aback and surprised . In fact , they mentioned that past fellows have applied for a <URL> and that 'd be the best . However , the student visa is an arduous process with elaborate mark sheet checking procedures . In the meanwhile , I got a reply from the German Embassy that I can apply for a <URL> visa . This seems much better and I will proceed my application with this . In addition , I am also <URL> ( P1 , point b ) as I am a foreign national receiving a scholarship from public funds to stay/work in Germany . However , the German embassy confirmed that such a waiver can only be decided after the visa officer goes through my documents . I spoke about this to my research organisation and they said that I should do as the embassy suggested or in other words apply for a guest scientist visa . Moral of the story - Do n't blindly apply for a visa , read through rules/regulations and options . It could save you time as well as money .
As you know , regular German type D visas are not restricted to Germany but also allow the holder to <URL> ( some visas or other documents restricted to a single country do however exist , e.g. for asylum seekers ) . It 's not required to enter the Schengen area through Germany either . Article 5 of the Schengen Borders Code even includes several provisions explicitly referring to this possibility ( my emphasis ) : For intended stays on the territory of the Member States of a duration of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period , which entails considering the 180-day period preceding each day of stay , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : [ ... ] ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement ( 18 ) , except where they hold a valid residence permit or a valid long-stay visa ; So you can cross any external border , your long-stay visa can replace the Schengen visa you would otherwise need . Furthermore , the regulation also includes this : By way of derogation from paragraph 1 : ( a ) third-country nationals who do not fulfil all the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 but who hold a residence permit or a long-stay visa shall be authorised to enter the territory of the other Member States for transit purposes so that they may reach the territory of the Member State which issued the residence permit or the long-stay visa , unless their names are on the national list of alerts of the Member State whose external borders they are seeking to cross and the alert is accompanied by instructions to refuse entry or transit ; This means that even if you do not meet the usual conditions for a visit to the Schengen area ( e.g. you ca n't prove you have enough money or health insurance ) , you should at least be allowed to transit in Amsterdam . Note that the visa must however be valid so you have to check if the period of validity on the visa sticker itself allows you to enter early . Finally , some countries ( do n't know about Germany ) require some long-stay visa holders , including students , to complete some formalities ( e.g. medical check-up or some form of registration ) within a specified time of entering . Presumably the delay runs from the date on your entry stamp . To the extent that it 's the case in Germany , it would mean that you have one week less to take care of that .
Short answer , you ca n't . However , you can at least make sure they have an official license , and any other accreditation which might lend some credence to their claims . Look for ones that are licensed by the <URL> , and consider <URL> , to see if anyone has mentioned them or complained about them . All you can do is research , and ask around when you get there as well . Or consider approaching the companies and ask them directly - I 'm sure you 'd not be the first , even if it is rather brazen ;)
Given the <URL> and the previous experience my wife had past December coming back from Barcelona it is a no . The flights from Spain and especially from Barcelona are almost universally go through agriculture control at US customs ( at least the case in JFK and Newark ) specifically looking for Jamon . The only possible exception might be vacuum packed sliced Jamon but again from my wife 's experience with agriculture control in Newark I would say it may be a 50/50 proposition at best .
No , it is not . They will take a sample and run it through an opioid test ; which looks like this ( image from <URL> ) : <URL> Next , they will probably wonder why on Earth would someone carry laundry powder in their luggage . The people you need to worry about are customs enforcement , and not border protection ( although sometimes , these are the same agencies ) .
Got it both on the passport and visa sheet ( top right Corner )
Technically no , practically speaking yes . Many of the coins look the same as US coins at a first glance , so careless clerks may accept them . I am in the US and often find myself with Canadian pennies and quarters which are very similar to the US counterparts . Having all the new coins in the US in recent years makes it even harder for people to tell the difference . Generally , vending machines will not accept them . It 's probably technically illegal to pass them off as US currency though , it might be classifiable as counterfeiting or fraud , but it happens all the time , intentional or not . EDIT : To summarize discussion in comments ... There may be stores near the border that officially accept CAD . That would be completely legitimate . I live in a border state but have never seen any . In all fairness I live 200 miles from the border but I do go near the border several times a year . I also have never specifically looked . It is probably limited to tourist locations . In reference to careless clerks , using CAD for an entire transaction is unlikely to work . 4 CAD quarters would be way less likely to work than 3 USD and 1 CAD . I 'm still skeptical on the vending machine front . I 've tried it without success and stopped trying , but maybe there are vending machines that would accept them . A whole discussion on how they work would probably be off-topic , but I think it has something to do with whether they detect a coin based on size or electrical resistance .
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
Time . I lived in both Zone 2 and Zone 3 in London ( 4 years on and off , in Putney , Southfields and Colliers Wood ) . Generally ( as a guy ) I felt safe walking most places in London at night , and on public transport . Zone 2 does n't feel safer than zone 3 , or less safe . It 's more the certain areas that some people might say to avoid ( but that 's a different topic ) . Zone 2 is not generally considered walking distance to Central London , although it might be , if you 're closer to Zone 1 - for example , I 've walked to Parliament from Earl 's Court easily , but from East Putney I would not be particularly keen - it 's a good 25 min on the tube ! From Ealing , you 've got a decent way on the tube or bus for every trip . District or Central line , both will take you into town , and it 's convenient for trains out west ( overground ) . But if you 're in town and want to ' pop home ' to get something for the evening , it 's a fair hike . It 'll totally depend where in Zone 2 the other option is . As seen on <URL> - Zone two covers an awful lot of suburbs , stations and possibilities . I 'd try and find out where it is . Of course , the other advantage of having a Zone 3 fare pass ( eg buy a Zone 1-3 travel card ) is that all your other trips to other Zone 3 locations would be essentially ' free ' . And it 's not that much more per week . The other thing to consider is if the tube is down , you 'll be taking the bus or overground . So if you know where you 're studying ( I assume that 's why you 're there ) or where you 'll be spending much of your time , play around with the <URL> and see how long it might take by bus , train , or tube . One final small benefit I did notice is that the further you were from Leceister Square ( in central London ) the cheaper movie tickets seemed to be , so that 's a plus ;)
end question
start question
Which airport should I choose , DCA or IAD ?
If you have a choice without any other considerations ( i.e. similar price , time etc. ) , DCA is much closer to the center of the city than IAD . About 10 minutes versus 45 minutes driving ( may vary with traffic ) . DCA is , however , a domestic airport . If you are flying in from abroad ( as you say you are ) , you will be connecting somewhere else in the US to end at DCA . Conversely , IAD has direct flights from many international hubs . Ultimately , I do n't think the choice of DC airport matters all that much for an international traveler . Yes , you save a bit of time using DCA in terms of getting to/from the airport . But , the overall itinerary ( including layovers and price ) is likely to be a much greater factor in your decision . Indeed , to get the best itinerary/price you may also want to consider Baltimore-Washington International Airport ( BWI ) . It is a bit further away than IAD ( 50-55 min drive ) , but if you can get a more direct or cheaper flight there , it may be a good option for you . So , my advice , check out flights to all 3 DC airports . Consider the overall price and the total travel time ( including connections and travel from the airport ) and choose the best flight overall . I doubt the 30-45 minutes that DCA saves you on the ground will be the deciding factor . Update in response to edit Both airports have shuttles . They are privately operated in both cases . DCA is also connected to the DC metro . To take the metro from IAD requires a shuttle bus to the end of the line . Prices going from DCA may be lower than from IAD ( depending on which mode of transport you choose ) . SuperShuttle ( a shared ride shuttle service ) charges 29 USD dollars from either airport to the city center . To reiterate , if you have a choice between two travel itineraries that are otherwise identical in terms of price and travel duration , choose DCA . It is closer , saving you time . You have the option of using the metro . And just getting a taxi wont be an overly expensive option .
My best recommendation will be the bus . Your main concern is the fact that bus itineraries are not flexible enough . If you take the car to Whistler , then want to drive to the Rockies , your smoothest and fastest itinerary will take you through Vancouver too . A car is costly , and if you drive it one way you will have to drive it back . Last summer I did that ( with an even more customized trip ) and ended up driving the car back from Calgary to Vancouver with someone to share the ride on part of the way , it was a long 20-hour drive ( with a sleep break ) . I posted my ride share ad on kangaride.ca and found only a French guy to share the ride ( he had been to Eastern Canada , where kangaride/amigo express is popular ) . I posted it on hitchplanet.com ( which is a ride share website more for Western Canada ) too but got no one interested , nor on Craigslist . I did n't try but kijiji.ca is popular in Canada too . In Eastern Canada there are also some local facebook groups where people share their trips . And a final way to find ride shares is to post ads in hostels ( email them ahead of time , it might help ) . Here are your ride share website options . I would not count too much on them though , there are definitely fewer options than in Eastern Canada ( and way way fewer than in Europe ) . My experience in Eastern Canada vs France is that Eastern Canada has a many rides per day between big cities and about one per day to remote areas ; in France it is multiple per hour between big cities and multiple per day to remote areas . Western Canada seems to have one every couple days , even between Vancouver and Calgary . If you plan your trip early enough , you might want to post on travel websites for finding travel partners ( I can think of <URL> , it is a website for French people going on work and holiday visas , mostly to Eastern Canada and there are a lot of ads for shared trips ) . For the bus , you definitely have the perfect itinerary , you follow exactly the bus network . <URL> seems to definitely be a touristy route ( sure you will come back to Vancouver to go East but by car probably too ) . The " sea-to-sky " highway ( the road between Vancouver and Whistler ) is definitely one of the most gorgeous route I have travelled . I drove it and did not enjoy it enough ( winding a lot , I had to focus on the road ) and there are very few parkings to stop on the way . So I would recommend to take the bus on that portion and sit on the left of the bus on your way up to Whistler . The good thing is that the price for this route is fixed so you can book it just one day ahead if you do n't find a ride share . Then the Greyhound goes all the way from Vancouver to Calgary through Banff and Lake Louise . Lake Louise bus stop is several kilometres from the lake itself but definitely walkable in the morning to reach your trailhead . And Banff might be a little better with a car since it is a large town and trailheads are a bit out of town . Greyhound offers cheap advance fare ( more than 21 days before ) so these would be the tickets to book early on . The part where a car might be the best option is along the Ice fields parkway , linking Banff to Jasper . This is a national park and it offers gorgeous views from the side of the road or from the top of some 1-hour hikes from the road . You can still see many of these from <URL> and actually hike from Jasper . There are many trailheads from Jasper town ( but a much larger choice if you have a car there ) . Brewster ( the bus company ) also offers Ice fields parkway trips but they seem a bit overpriced . Hitch-hiking ( not on highways ) from Banff or Jasper to a trailhead or back is certainly easy . Oh and I almost forgot the train . The best views from the train are East of Jasper ( not on your route ) . And the westbound train from Jasper to Vancouver rides at night so you do n't see much anyway . If you do not want to spend too much money that 's not the best idea . The views between Lake Louise and Yoho park are more worth too . So here are all your options : the car for the flexibility but for a cost and you have to drive it back ( or pay an expensive one-way fee ) , or a mix of bus and ride shares ( most likely just bus ) for cheaper but with much less flexibility . Your turn to choose . On top of that , if you pick the car option , I would definitely recommend you to go a bit off the beaten paths , i.e. not stay in downtown hostels but the so-called " wilderness " ones , going to other parks on your way ( Garibaldi lake near Whistler , Kootenay , Yoho , ... ) and obviously offer to share your ride on websites . Note for the bus : on many buses , checks are performed prior to boarding and bear spray is forbidden ( even in checked bag ) . So if you need bear spray , buy it locally .
These are entirely different classes of travel . Portugal + Spain is an easy trip within the usual Western world , close to home and without any significant apparent dangers other than the usual pickpockets and the expensive Euro zone . You can easily get home if needed ( regular flights from Madrid and Barcelona directly to TLV , connections through all around Europe from everywhere else ) . Russia , Cuba and China are different kinds of animals . Russia is an unstable place , other than in the central cities ( Moscow , St. Petersburg , provincial capitals , etc ) you are in danger . If you go too much south , you 'll get to the Muslim areas ( Chechnya , Dagestan , Azeri border ) where being an Israeli might not be healthy ( even relatively to the rest of Russia . They 're not big fans ) . You might not speak the language , you would definitely not know the local way of doing business , and you 'll be definitely paying more than a Russian-speaker for everything . Much more . If you stay close to the central places you would be relatively safe , but there were Israelis coming home without fingers from Russia , as you probably know . ( FYI for all the haters - lived in Moscow for several years , I know what 's going on there from my own experience ) China - same about the language and the cost difference , but ( IMHO ) much safer for foreign travelers . English spoken in the big cities , talk to younger people ( accent may be horrible though ... ) Cuba - FAAAAAAAAR . If you go to European parts of Russia , or Portugal + Spain - you can go for a week or two . Going all the way to Cuba ( or China ) for a week - a huge waste . If you 're going for a long time though it might be very interesting , and I would suggest Cuba as the best candidate . It is very unique , and will , likely , disappear ( in its current shape ) in a decade or two . Once the Castro 's are gone , my guess is that Cuba will get back to the close ties with the US it had before , and will change significantly .
Well <URL> in the world . I 'll ignore lightvessels for this question . For European countries : Belgium - 6 Bulgaria - 5 Denmark - 6 Estonia - 42 Finland - 9 France - several Wales - 25ish Scotland - tons Portugal - 44 continental , more in Azores Spain - tons Sweden - 20ish England - 50ish Norway - tons etc you get the idea . From that , you can either infer there are loads in Norway , Portugal , Spain and Estonia , or there may just be lighthouse obsessed fans in those countries . <URL> maintains an index for more than 14,700 of the world 's lighthouses . So that 's another good place to start . They also note : It is not so easy to define exactly what we mean by a lighthouse , and various organizations and individuals have used very different definitions when describing or classifying lighthouses . Clearly , all lighthouses are lighted aids to navigation , but not all lighted aids are considered to be lighthouses . Some definitions are not controversial . An aid to navigation is a structure placed on or near navigable water to provide visual guidance to mariners . A beacon is an aid to navigation that is fixed in place ( that is , not floating ) . A lighted beacon or lightbeacon is a beacon displaying a light , while an unlit beacon is called a daybeacon . Often , a lighted beacon is simply called a light . In this Directory , a lighthouse is a lightbeacon having a height of at least 4 meters ( 13 ft ) and a cross-section , at the base , of at least 4 square meters ( 43 sq ft ) . This simple definition does not require that a lighthouse have any particular form or appearance . The structure of a lighthouse may be enclosed , partially enclosed , or completely open . If you went state-side , apparently " <URL> " . According to <URL> , there are 1032 in England . Finally , I found <URL> , which plots lighthouses on a map . It 's not very detailed , but I 'd say Denmark in this case . You might also contact the <URL> , as they may well have statistics somewhere , or know who might . EDIT In addition , someone mentioned the coastline effect . While it would seem to indicate more chance of lighthouses , in reality it 's dependent more on dangerous , irregular and busy coastlines . If it 's easy sailing and deep water , why have a lighthouse ? However , there 's probably some rough correlation still - as a tiny coastline like Latvia is probably going to have fewer than Norway . To that effect , here is <URL> , and the longest European one is Norway , unless you also count Russia as European ...
So your flight is an international flight . The airport is fairly small , with just 5-6 restaurants , has wifi and opens officially at 4.30 am in the morning . To make sure , I 'd always check the advice of the airport 's website itself . In this case , the official <URL> says : It is advised that you arrive at the airport in plenty of time . The length of time prior to departure depends on the airline , so remember to check what time that applies to you . The usual attendance times are . On that advice , I 'd try and get there at least a bit earlier - but would consider risking it if it was me . But understand that if you are late and were n't there 90 min beforehand , the airline is not likely to be sympathetic :(
You can look up a comparable flight for today on <URL> . This is best done as close to your date of departure as possible , as terminal use may change occasionally . You can usually see tomorrows flights as well . For example : <URL> <URL> The websites of the respective airports will also usually have this information , especially the outbound airport . Terminal info on arrivals varies between airport websites .
With the help of Google maps , using the public transport option , it seems that Hongqiao aiport is closer and needs less time and less subway stops ( cheaper ? ) . Using subway , <URL> is 51 minutes away with 11 stops while <URL> you will need 1h25m with 17 stops .
<URL> As my other answer said , the larger islands ( like Wolfe island and Howe island ) are accessible by car ferry . The smaller islands ( anything where the map does n't show a road ) are mostly privately owned and not accessible to the public . The exceptions are those that are specifically open as tourist attractions . Two of the main ones are : Boldt Castle on Heart island Singer Castle on Dark island <URL> owns several of the islands and various sites in the area . They are generally accessible to the public , but do n't have much to see on them . Places open to tourists in the area of the Thousand islands include : Boat cruises out of Kingston or Gananoque Various War of 1812 battle sites Martello tower at Kingston
Several hotels in the area listed on Trip Advisor as " pet friendly " but only accept dogs . Blatant discrimination ! La Quinta JFK accepts cats and there is no surcharge .
The best I can recommend to you is to become a <URL> ( Deutscher Alpenverein , DAV ) or the <URL> ( ÖAV , all links in German ) . Membership costs varies depending on the " Sektion " you choose to become a member of ( you can choose freely and I know many people who choose one purely based on cost ) but is in the range of EUR50 and comes with <URL> ( through ASS for the DAV ) . @Relaxed suggests in <URL> that the ÖAV should be your first try , as they have a <URL> and <URL> as well as less restrictions in their terms and conditions . I second that advice ! What you get is Search and rescue costs up to $ 25,000 Repatriation with no upper cost limit Reimbursement of expenses due to hospitalisation after accidents occurring in the course of leisure activities or business as well as illness , up to $ 10,000 Third party liability insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 3,000,000 Legal expenses insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 35,000 <URL> You will want to look to the " A " column ( full member ) which you can sort . Currently it seems the " Alpenfreunde Euskirchen " are the cheapest at EUR40 annually . At first search I could not find a homepage for them so you might be happier at another , more internet-affine " Sektion " . In Austria the fees seem to be the same across sections and <URL> , currently you pay EUR61 per annum to be a full member , but they mention extra charges for members from abroad due to higher processing expenses .
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
Both of them will be ok . However , on my opinion , I would prefer type C , because it has more flexibility in using . Also type C can be used in a lot of countries . If you travel a lot it 's a big advantage . More information you may find here : <URL>
Round-the-world fares do exist . Most airline alliances and occasionally single airlines offer around the world fares . <URL> ( includes British Airways , American Airlines , Cathay Pacfic ) <URL> ( includes Lufthansa , United ) <URL> It can be very cost effective , especially for premium class ( business and first class fares ) . There are limits on all of them , usually they prevent backtracking across a continent , a limited number of segments , and only visiting each continent once ( once you leave you do n't go back ) . <URL> is a forum with a lot of trip reports done on RTW fares ( check the trip reports forum ) . In response to your comment , usually if you arrive at one airport and depart from another then that counts as an overland segment and counts towards your ticket usage . For example , if you flew from New York to Berlin , took the train to Madrid , and then flew out from Madrid to Cairo , three segments would be used : New York - Berlin Berlin - Madrid ( overland segment ) Madrid - Cairo It does n't matter if you fly or not , it still takes away from your overall segment limit . A segment refers to one specific flight .
There are many exchange places , both in airports and in city proper . Technically and officially they all are bank branches , but often it consists of an exchange office only . The airport exchange rates are not the best , though if you are not changing lots of money , probably the price difference will not be worth your time . You can withdraw rubles from ATMs ( and certainly you can pay by card , which is widely possible ; in fact , you will not need much cash ) , unless your bank prohibits this ; check with your bank in advance . Also find out the fees they could charge and the exchange rate they would apply ; you may find the exchange rate quite decent . ( Only beware that exchange rate changes daily or even hourly , so compare exchange rate of bank with current Moscow exchange rate . ) In fact , I do n't know about French card in Russia , but in opposite situation ( Russian card in Europe ) , I often find it to be the best rate to simply pay by card wherever possible , and withdraw from ATM if I need cash .
Sleeping in airports is not uncommon when transiting through . Quite a few people stretch out and nap while waiting their next flight . But this is primarily in the transit areas , security often frowns on folks sleeping in the public area around the check in counters ( otherwise homeless folks would flock to the heated airport lobbies armed with a second hand suitcase ) . Both the Mecure Schipol and Yotel are inside the international transit area , so you ca n't access them until you check in for your flight . The Yotel was closed last September during renovation , not sure if it has reopened yet . The best bet is to book one of the other three on that website , since they are all within walking distance . Or look on a booking website like Agoda and pick a hotel that offers free airport shuttles .
Oh have I got the page for you ... <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
In my opinion Airbnb is nothing but a short-let provider . Yes people do rent out their spare rooms , and thus welcome you in their house . But they do so in exchange for money , very much like a hotel , or a bed-and-breakfast , would do . In that sense I do n't think tipping is necessary . If you want to show appreciation to an excellent host , the best way to do so is to bring a gift . Once again , this is not mandatory . Now , <URL> ( " why would they ? " , you might ask ) . However I did find an <URL> stating that you should n't tip your host : Bonus Tip : Should I tip my Airbnb host ? This question that has cropped up repeatedly since we published this original post . The short answer is no , you should not tip your Airbnb host . Tipping is a way of showing appreciation for good service , but Airbnb hosts do n't see what they 're doing as a service as such -- rather , they 're sharing their home with you as an equal . You and they co-exist in the same space ; they do not ' serve ' you in the same way that hotel staff might do . As such , there is no need to tip them . If you want to show your appreciation , a small gift such as a box of chocolates or even just a note would be more appropriate . <URL> seems to share this opinion : Accommodations Leaving a tip for your Airbnb or HomeAway host is not necessary , and may in fact counter the communal spirit of home-sharing . Instead leave the hosts a gift to thank them for the stay , a nice bottle of wine or even fresh flowers .
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
When you meet them . You may well get " reverse omiyage " from your friend when you 're leaving , though !
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
end question
start question
Is there a free public outdoor gym somewhere in Dalat , Vietnam ?
As per hippietrail 's comment : No I stayed there for almost one month and never found something . It 's pretty labyrinthine though , so I could 've still missed it . So we can presume a free outdoor gym is either non-existent or extremely hard to find . However there 's a very cheap spa with a gym called " <URL> " . As per <URL> , the price for a full day 's stay is 50,000 VND or ~ 2.5 USD .
I was there last year , and I remember connecting to internet in a café . The internet was really ok ; nothing to complain about . Moreover , in general in Vietnam the internet connection is good . Some places censor Facebook though
I can think of a few reasons : Verifying the identity of Wi-fi users , in case a court subpoena comes in requesting information about a certain user . It 's not a bullet-proof method ( many countries offer anonymous sim-cards ) , but it 's probably good enough in most cases . Some countries may also ban fully anonymous Wi-fi ( such as Germany or Turkey ) . Making sure they can cut-off users who use too much traffic or time ( some free connections are limited to 15/30/60 minutes ) . It becomes harder to reconnect once banned since changing your MAC address is not sufficient . Denying access to long-term users . It 's often possible for local residents to connect to major Wi-fi hubs close by . Maintaining accurate statistics on the number of users/their country of origin/etc . Showing targeted advertisements based on your phone number . Having a database of phone numbers for future text advertisements/sales calls/etc . It 's probably hidden away somewhere in the long " Terms and Conditions " that nobody reads .
The majority of the museums in Washington DC are run by the <URL> , and offer free entry to everyone ( with optional donations being accepted ) . There are also a number of non-Smithsonian museums , such as the <URL> ( free , but requires a timed ticket for entry ) , <URL> ( not free ) , and the <URL> ( also not free ) .
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
I ca n't vouch for micro SIMs , but this <URL> ( very handy ) will give you the lowdown on getting prepaid SIMs most everywhere you need to go . Shops or airport kiosks will probably know more about getting a micro SIM . If all else fails , though , you can use a SIM cutter .
There are several . Two of the biggest are : <URL> <URL> Hope that helps ! Another trick I figured out in Kazakhstan is to search for foursquare.com posts about wifi - for example , I was wondering if Astana airport had free wifi , and indeed , <URL> confirmed that it did , and that it is fast ! :)
Well it turns out that <URL> . It lists details of 14 beaches in the area . Each entry begins with " Beach Fees " . The following beaches are free , as in you do n't need a beach tag : North Wildwood Beach Sea Isle City Beach ( Wednesdays only ) Upper Township Beach Wildwood Beach Wildwood Crest Beach
A website of <URL> , marked on a map for your convenience ! :) ( the red markers have a low fee ; the green markers are free )
Yes there are plenty . The most thourough experience is probably to visit Skansen - the outdoors combined zoo and open-air museum at Djurgården . They have some <URL> about this . In swedish there are <URL> about the festivities . Almost everwhere there are some kind of local festivity going on . It may be hard to track down . In Sollentuna where I live there is traditional celebrations at the local folk museum ( called hembygdsgård in swedish ) . This is very common . Most swedes however bring friends and family to their summer houses and have a smaller celebration . This is the most genuine way to do it . Things to expect : Typically you start at lunch with sill and nubbe . ( Pickled herring and spiced vodka . ) Then you may either have a maypole of your own to construct and raise or you visit one of the local festivities for this part of the celebrations . Once the pole is raised there are supposed to be some music and tradiational dancing around it . This part is mostly forgotten and usually only includes the childrens dance called " Små grodorna " - the little frogs . ( Skansen will surely have some traditional dancing going on though . ) Update : a <URL> to get the feeling for this part . After the pole part it may be time for sports . <URL> is a game from gotland that is played all over the country nowadays . I have also been involved in soccer games at this stage of the day . Later on - more food . More sill and nubbe but also BBQed meet . New potatoes are also an important part of both lunch and dinner . This may often be the first time of the year when you can have new potatoes . Really nice ! Expect to sing some nubbevisor to the spirits . More ambitious people have a little booklet with songs to sings in relation to drinking . They are supposed to end with a " Skål " and everyone drinking the nubbe . Strawberries are an important part of the food stuffs . The most pure way to have it is plain with fat milk but it is also common with home made strawberry cake . <URL> by mariahagglof of flickr . We always talk about typical swedish summer weather in relation to midsummer . We have all spent one or two midsummers freezing in a party tent at someones summr house . When the weather is good it is a different story though . Traditional clothing . Different parts of Sweden has different kind of tradiational clothing and the most likely day to use it is on midsummers eve . If you are a not married woman you can pick seven different kinds of flowers and ( in some versions ) jump over seven hedges . Then put the flowers under your pillow and you will dream of your future spouse . If in doubt about any of this just ask any swede at hand . They will be happy to explain it all . In short - a bigger celebration may have more of the traditional stuff included but a smaller one is more the way most swedes do it . After this I leave you with this ( somewhat sad ) maypole from my families celebrations in 2011 .
From <URL> : A family entering Australia can pool their individual allowances . For example : a family of 4 ( 2 adults and 2 children ) are entitled to bring in : 4.5 litres of alcoholic beverages ( 2 x adults alcohol allowance of 2.25 L = 4.5 L ) + 100 cigarettes ( 2 x adults tobacco allowance of 50 cigarettes = 100 ) + $ 2,700 worth of general goods ( including gifts , souvenirs , cameras , electronic equipment , leather goods , jewellery , watches and sporting goods ) ( 2 x adults general goods allowance + 2 x traveller under 18 years general goods allowance ) . ( edit ) So to be clearer - for alcohol and cigarettes , you can not allocate to the kids , but you can for other items with no age limits .
There are many but , and I think this list may not be all , but certainly most . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Japan does not have a general " <URL> " like Scandinavian countries , wild camping on public land is theoretically illegal and wild camping on private property requires the landowner 's permission . That said , both rules are only loosely enforced and there 's a bit of a tradition of " <URL> " ( 野宿 nojuku ) in Japan : simply put , if you pitch up a tent or even sleep on a bench in an out-of-the-way place so that you do n't disturb anybody and do n't make a mess , you 're unlikely to be disturbed either . I 've done this a few times and never had a problem , just pitch your tent late and head out early , or ask permission . ( courtesy me and my tent ) Also , Japanese campsites tend to be pretty cheap , eg . the view above in <URL> cost me all of & yen ; 500 and that included showers . Hokkaido has lots of similar camping options , occasionally even including a nearby natural hot spring ( eg . Wakoto near Lake Akan , Onuma near Hakodate , etc. ) For the specific case of Daisetsuzan , these are some pretty serious mountains and the traverse is not an easy hike . While there are campsites , some of them free , most people opt to stay in the huts , which are cheap and considerably more comfortable if there 's bad weather , plus you do n't have to lug a tent around ! See <URL> and , in particular , <URL> for details .
Yes , there is ! If you rummage through all the PDFs in the French bit of the airport website , you 'll fine the details <URL> . Alternately , just ask at the cafe/bar in the airport , they 're very friendly and helpful there :) You need to go to the information ( l’accueil ) desk , which doubles up as the Air France ticket desk ( and is much better signed for the latter than the former ! ) . If you ask there for a password , they 'll take your name , wander back into the office and generate you a personal password for the day . You can then connect to the Wi-Fi , trigger the captive portal , enter your password and get online . However ... It 's a very small airport , and people there have multiple roles . So , if you want to get the password just as a flight is about to leave , you 'll have to wait ! ( The staff who give out the password also help with flight dispatch ) The good news is they 're very friendly , and they 'll come and find you with your password once the flight has gone !
It may not be the the exact controversies you are seeking , but Washington DC 's <URL> offers an immersive experience in the art of spycraft .
If you buy any SIM card in China , you will have access restrictions . If you buy a prepaid card in China or Japan , you will not be able to roam data in another country for any reasonable amount of nmoney . The reason is that the vast majority of the customers want to buy a card only for that market . Ironically , you will have more luck abroad to buy such a card . Regarding the international roaming for example , you can <URL> for 8 pounds a day . Regarding the firewall , you will not get any guarantee that it will work . I use a <URL> and can somehow access all normally blocked websites when roaming in China , but no provider will advertise this at the risk of getting blocked . So if you can not find an offer abroad , you will have to buy one in each country , and chances are that you will not be able to circumvent the firewall . Unless you get a VPN service and connect through it .
Honestly , I would stick with couchsurfing . I hate to sound like the news and say craig 's list can be dangerous , but I know some people that have had bad experiences ... really bad experiences . I would say stick with a site that validates users . If you do n't mind working , you can always go with somethign like <URL> . Also , working in a hostel is usually a pretty good gig . Free place to live and some cash . Typically you can easily find work at one by just walking in and asking .
I have been on flights a couple of times where the pilot made an announcement , but nothing more than that . Flying across the Equator in this day and age is a non-event , same as flying over the International Date Line or the Arctic Circle . While it might be cool to someone who does n't travel much , it is not unique enough to warrant a celebration ( especially not free booze ;-) . Back in the day , when planes did n't go as far and you had to hop from airstrip to airstrip refueling to reach Australia from Los Angeles , it was a big deal . But today planes do it in a single flight and the Equator is crisscrossed by a multitude of flights every day .
Yes , there is ! On the <URL> , <URL> the main museums and art galleries are open for free . The only slight downside is that loads of people take advantage of this , so the queues can be quite long ( it took 25 minutes to get into le Musée d'Orsay today mid afternoon as a guide ) , and they can be very busy inside . See <URL> on avoiding the worst of the queues at the Louvre for example . Still , if you do n't mind the queues to get in , you can see some amazing museums and works of art for free , you just need to play your trip to Paris to hit the first Sunday of the month ! ( You can do the museums that are free all the time , such as those mentioned in the question , on the day before/after , so you can maximise your time on the Sunday at the places that normally charge )
If you buy/rent a motorbike in Vietnam do they have ones with the abilities to strap on a large backpacking backpack ? A lot of South Asian countries have a collection of powerful pre/post war bikes which carried on production locally after the wars ended . Those were very accomadating bikes . For ex , does this ( googled ) bike 's setup offer you enough storage space ? <URL> If that was n't enough , you can also opt for a motorcyle with a side car : <URL> Such bike mods are pretty common in many South East Asian countries ( Pakistan , India , Nepal , Bangladesh , Thailand , Burma etc ) . Unlike in US , many people over there travel luggage heavy on motorcycles and finding such a bike for rent should n't be a problem in a tourist place . I 've seen just regular motorbikes without any attachments for carrying luggage , but I 'm assuming if two people can ride a bike then there 's no reason a single person could n't travel with a bag right ? Oh yes , there should be no problem at all , from my experience in Asian countries so far . For specific local laws you will have to look up their motorcycle law manual . But as a general observation , it would n't matter .
end question
start question
Is it a good idea to keep your home timezone sleeping pattern when traveling to a far timezone ?
It all depends how long you 're there for . Anecdotally , many travellers will tell you it can take one day per hour difference - ie 10 days for 10 zones , to ' catch up ' . In reality , it 's different for each person , and when the flight is . In addition , it 's generally harder flying east than flying west . I recommend reading " <URL> " to help with that aspect at least . If you 're going for more than a week , I 'd say use the new timezone - that is , sleep at night . The natural body 's reaction to the sunlight in the morning is DEFINITELY going to be hard on you if you 're trying to sleep during the day , but on the other hand , you may be not too bad with the jetlag . Make sure to stay up the first day as late as you can , no matter what , until the sun has gone down at the very least . I 've changed big zones many times ( London to NZ ) , and this is the best rule . You 'll be tired , but you 'll get a good first night 's sleep this way . On the other hand , if you 're only there for 2-5 days , you could consider keeping your zone , and hours , but any longer and use the new daylight . Above all else , listen to your body - if it 's tired , you need sleep .
I suggest you start with the " Centro de Interpretação de Monsanto " ( Monsanto Interpretation Center ) . It is a building with a lot of information about this area ( pictures of flora and fauna , maps , guides ... ) and from there you can decide where you want to go next . Unfortunately , this page is not translated , but you can try to use an automatic translater : <URL> From this page you can also grab more ideas . Public transportations in Monsanto are not good . Bike is a very good option ( generally speaking of course ) .
Not entirely sure if this is what you 're after , as it 's still a bit vague - but for adventurous travellers like myself , and others I 've met in stranger countries regularly use <URL> . It 's all purchasable and able to be edited/renews/claimed against online , which is great for travellers without say a regular permanent address that some companies require you to have . I 'm actually getting a new policy with them tonight - albeit for a simple visit to Canada :) ( assuming no more riots ! )
Well the main problem is that the host/hostel staff have yet to meet you . They do n't necessarily know you , and they do n't know what emergency it will be for . So the call might go something like : Operator : What 's your Emergency ? Host : Er , I 'm not sure . Someone 's meant to turn up , and they have n't ? Operator : Can you describe them ? Host : No , I 've never met them . And so on . At best , you could get them to report you as a ' missing person ' , but the timeframe for when police consider you to be really missing differs from country to country . In Australia , for example , <URL> , IF you have serious concerns about their safety/wellbeing and their whereabouts are unknown . However , generally it 's for cases where being missing is out of character , which is hard to say if the host does n't know you . In New Zealand , however , if you do a hike you can state when/where you are expected to be/return , and if you do n't show up a rescue party can be sent out to find you . So long story short - it depends . Based on this , the call could go : Operator : What 's your emergency ? Host : Bart Arondson , a guest of mine was meant to arrive today and has n't . He was going to be hiking from Nelson to Pelorus Bay today , and left there this morning but has n't arrived here . At which point the police/search and rescue might make a judgement call about the weather , conditions and the likelihood that you 're in trouble .
Overall , this is seen to be abusive because you are attempting to get more leave than was issued to you ( whether you intended to or not ) . The controlling technical reference for your question is found in Paragraph 30C of the <URL> which says ... An Immigration Officer may cancel an entry clearance which is capable of having effect as leave to enter if the holder arrives in the United Kingdom before the day on which the entry clearance becomes effective or if the holder seeks to enter the United Kingdom for a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance . You would be in breach on both conditions . What this means is that the Immigration Officer has the right to cancel your entry clearance and send you back to Australia to make a fresh application . They can also contact your sponsor and tell them you are attempting to abuse your YMS visa . I have seen it happen . The IO does not have to remove you if you have a convincing excuse . Acclimating yourself to the UK would be a weak excuse ( i.e. , " a purpose other than the purpose specified in the entry clearance " ) and looking for a flat will raise alarm bells ... Depending upon where you are located in the UK vis-a-vis the on-going roll out of the new ' right-to-rent ' regulations may affect the legality of a tenancy agreement . So while your strategy is not illegal , it is likely to be seen as abusive without a really good reason . And if they are not satisfied with your excuse , they can remove you . If they let you in on 10 August , you will need to leave the UK on 10 August two years hence to avoid overstaying ( even if your visa says 16 August ) . Update ... In commentary , you added that you hold a YMS visa and that you have ( prudently ) discussed the strategy with your sponsor . Your sponsor thinks a channel hopping strategy may work ; I 'm not necessarily in agreement and suggest they confirm it with their solicitor . For your second question , about asking the consulate to change your start date , it depends upon the information in your certificate . They may decide you need a new certificate or may adjust your start date . It 's impossible to accurately predict without seeing what your sponsor sent you .
There are two types of travel adapter plugs commonly used : <URL> . These just convert the physical plug into one of a different shape , but do not perform any voltage conversion . It is perfectly fine and common to use one with a power strip ( with surge protector ) . As Aganju points out , you should be careful not to overload any circuits , as a power strip allows you to plug multiple devices into a single outlet . Also , be sure to check that the surge protector is rated to handle the voltage for your destination 's electrical system . Some models are universal , but others may be 110V only and should n't be used in 220-240V electrical systems ; check the markings on the device first . <URL> / transformers . These are somewhat heavy transformers , much larger than a plug adapter , that increase or decrease the voltage of the power to allow it to be used with devices expecting a different voltage than the one locally available . Since many common electronic items carried by travelers are " dual-voltage " or " universal voltage " ( they are marked as accepting a wide range of voltages , such as 100-240V ) , these are n't as common anymore and may be unnecessary , but are useful if you must travel with a non-universal device . They often include a plug adapter as part of their design . Transformers are marked with a maximum wattage that they are capable of handling . Many transformers , especially smaller and cheaper ones , may only handle a load of up to a few hundred watts . It is easy to exceed this limit either with a single high-power device ( such as a hair dryer ) , or a number of lower-power devices . A power strip makes it much easier to overload the transformer . EDIT : <URL> from someone describing how using a surge protector on the 110V side of a step-down transformer damaged the surge protector and created a safety hazard . Some of this depends on the type of transformer involved , but it 's a good way to try to destroy your surge protector if nothing else . In short : I would n't use a surge protector on the other side of a transformer . A power strip that you are sure has no surge protection would n't have this problem , though just avoiding such setups all together is probably safest . Personally , I have n't traveled with a voltage converter ( carrying just plug adapters ) in years , as I 've arranged all the electrical devices I take with me to be universal voltage . Converters are heavy and bulky and I prefer to avoid them . Laptops , cell phone chargers , tablets , cameras , etc. . . are typically universal , though it 's important to check your devices . Some travelers may carry a hairdryer or curling iron , which might not be universal voltage . It is possible to buy special travel models ( e.g. . <URL> in the US , or a travel supply vendor wherever you are ) instead , especially as you 'd otherwise need a high-wattage transformer to handle a hairdryer . Or obtain such items in your destination if necessary .
It can save you a few bucks , but it 's probably not nearly as good a deal for you as they claim ( note that there are <URL> with different offers as well , those should be evaluated separately ) . The CityPASS folks promise 40 % savings , which sounds pretty good , but there are some caveats . Significantly , that two of the included attractions ( the Met and the Museum of Natural History ) are pay-as-you-wish , and many visitors do not pay the " recommended donation " amounts ( the average Met visitor pays <URL> , which includes people who pay the full price not knowing about this policy ) . What you pay is up to you , but it 's reasonable to assume CityPASS is n't paying the Met and the Natural History Museum anywhere near the full " recommended " donation amounts for their visitors either . So , what 's included ? ( All prices are for the adult pass , some attractions have senior discounts that would make the CityPASS a worse deal if you qualify . I 'm also assuming you 're not taking advantage of any free museum days , which can further reduce your costs significantly . I further assume you are n't using any of the coupons which can be found online for some attractions . ) : The Empire State Building , 86th floor observatory + same night readmission . CityPASS values this at $ 47 . ESB standard admission is $ 32 without the same night readmission , which is probably good enough for most people . American Museum of Natural History . CityPASS values this at $ 27 , which includes a Planetarium or Giant Screen show . Admission is pay-as-you-wish for the museum , but you <URL> $ 25 for the optional show . Metropolitan Museum of Art . CityPASS values this at $ 25 . Admission to the entire museum is pay-as-you-wish . Top of the Rock or Guggenheim Museum . I 'm not quite sure why you 'd do both the Top of the Rock and the Empire State Building , since both are observation decks , unless you really hate art . The Guggenheim is normally $ 25 , reduced to $ 15 when parts of the museum are closed while exhibitions are being changed . Statue of Liberty &amp; Ellis Island or Circle Line Sightseeing Cruises . The Statue + Ellis Island is worth $ 18 , but the CityPASS ticket wo n't let you go inside the statue ; that requires a separate ticket and advance reservations . The Circle Line Landmark Cruise does cost $ 37 , but there are other Circle Line cruises that cost less , not to mention other boat tour operators . 9/11 Memorial &amp; Museum or Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum . The 9/11 memorial is free , but for the museum , the official website says it costs $ 24 , not the $ 26 CityPASS claims . At the Intrepid , the CityPASS wo n't get you into the Space Shuttle Pavilion , which requires a $ 33 ticket instead of the $ 26 one . Where does that leave us ? The adult CityPASS costs $ 116 . A few logical combinations : ESB + Natural History + Met + Guggenheim + Circle Line Landmark Cruise + 9/11 Museum = $ 128 , if we give the Met and the Natural History museum $ 5 each . $ 12 savings ( 9 % ) . Adjust up/down based on your desire to donate to these museums . Give them each a dollar and it becomes a $ 4 savings . Choose a cheaper cruise and the pass becomes a loss . ESB + Natural History + Met + Guggenheim + Statue of Liberty &amp; Ellis Island + Intrepid = $ 109 with $ 5 donations to each museum . You 've wasted $ 9 on the pass ( or give the museums a few more bucks and call it a draw ) . On the other hand , you can come out ahead by a few bucks if you want to see the Space Show or a giant film at the Natural History Museum . Therefore , the CityPASS can be marginally worthwhile if you already want to do the most expensive options from the choices , at the expense of locking you into specific things you must visit to get any benefit at all . You also give up some ability to buy upgrades to certain attractions by using your pass , such as access to the inside of the Statue of Liberty ( though reservations sell out very early for this ) . And the other downside is that the CityPASS locks you into a certain set of attractions that may not be the best use of your time as a visitor to New York , depending on what you want to see . Time spent waiting in line to go up two observation decks to get your money 's worth or doing other touristy things may be better used for other things , some of which are free , such as going to a deli or brunch , visiting MoMA , seeing a play ( they have those without singing you know ? ) , venturing into Brooklyn or Harlem or another area more interesting than Midtown , chowing down at a food hall or Smorgasburg , walking the High Line , a bridge , or Central Park , or standing in the middle of Grand Central . Doing these sorts of things , or whatever interests you , can give you a far better feel for the city than running from one tourist attraction to another with a determination to get your money 's worth . And , of course , if you want to and are able to support the museums by donating more , that 's always appreciated too .
I live in Turkey and travel to Bulgaria regularly . ( ~ 20 times now ) . My general idea would be that this might be easier to find in Bulgaria as long as you were in one of the major cities . Turkey does n't seem to have this stuff just anywhere . That being said , it 's cheap-ish generic gear can be found at some major markets in Turkey , so I 'd be inclined to hit up a few stores and pick something up before I hit the road .
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
Many of the major airlines do have self-service checkin machines at the airport . I know <URL> , allows printing forgotten or failed prints . If your airlines does not have these self service machines , and you are not yet at the airport , try going to a print or copyshop . Most airports these days have these shops , but sometimes they can have quite some waiting queues , which will be adding stress to your journey . Depending on the airline you are traveling , you could choose to use a <URL> as an alternative boarding card . This only works if your boarding pass has a bar code they use to scan prior to boarding . What you need to do is make a pdf of your boarding pass and store it on your device . I always do this these days and this already saved me once . A final option is to just approach the check in desk and ask a reprint . This is the least favorable solution , since the whole idea behind online check in is to minimize contact time at a manned checkin desk . Some airlines are then reluctant to help you in these request , some airlines ( Ryanair comes to mind ) have a hefty fee if you ask for a reprint . In the case of Ryanair this is 40 euros or even higher .
If you are used to travelling by yourself , you will be fine . In subways and trains they usually make announcements in English as well as Japanese . At the very least for stations where tourists would want to get off , but often for all stations . If you go to the information counter or the guy sitting next to the ticket gates in the train stations you can get subway and train maps with English text . Staff is usually very friendly everywhere , and they will try to explain in English , even if that takes some time . Buses can be Japanese only , but they are seldom needed to reach tourist attractions ( depends a bit on where you want to go ) , and if you talk to the driver ( try not to be there at rush hour ) and tell them you want to get off at soandso and sit near them , they will usually get you to the right place . It is also useful to visit tourist offices , the people there usually have English maps and flyers and can tell you how to get to places . They are usually in every bigger train station . If you have to ask someone on the street , you should go for someone between 25 and 40 who does n't look too busy . Their English might not be perfect , but they will almost definitely try to help you and send you in the right direction . If you give me a list of where exactly you want to go , I can probably give a more detailed assessment . Of course , a guided tour might enable you to see more things , but you will probably really only see them . Out of the bus , photo , back into the bus . But if you are the kind of person that likes to look at stuff at their own pace , you are definitely better off going by yourself . I do n't know if you like that kind of thing , but backpacker 's hostels usually have very talkative English speaking staff who will give you lots and lots of directions and recommendations if you ask .
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
Right , I 've finally formed an answer for this . From a Lonely Planet forum : <URL> Camping is not really done in Malaysia . There are no campsites except at places like the National Park , and then you can rent gear . Of course , that does n't mean it 's illegal , just not common . However : <URL> Indicates and describes what is protected in a Marine reserve . It 's not so much the land , but specifically a protected area of sea zoned one or two nautical miles from the shore at lowest low tide which would indicate as long as you do n't camp IN the water , you 'll be fine , as the land itself is not the protected part :) Other forums , including the first one above go on to mention many camping stores and tent supplies , so while it may not be common , it certainly exists in the national park areas .
Airlines tend to charge full fare for last minute bookings , rather than discounting it to try and fill one more seat . The stereotypical last minute booking is from a business person , who has to be there and is flying on someone else 's dime , hence does n't mind paying whatever is asked . So there is no real motivation to discount the fares . The number of people like yourself who might be looking for a cheap last minute escape are a very small minority . Usually about the only thing that gets discounted at the last minute is upgrades , as airlines may try to raise a bit of last minute cash if their first class is empty and there are n't that many eligible elite flyers on the flight . All that said , there is nothing wrong with giving it a shot , as there are exceptions to every rule of thumb . Just do n't get your hopes up .
As an American who just recently traveled to Israel for the first time with a former Israeli , my impression is that you should stay in Jerusalem . We took a bus that only took about 45 minutes from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem . They are very close together . And Jerusalem was much more interesting to me from a tourist perspective ( i.e. the rich history and architecture ) .
There are three methods to purify your water : boil , chemically treat or filter or a combination of them . Your guides will boil water for you , so you should not need to chemically treat the water they give you . However , if you are unsure about the water you get , you are free to do additional purification . <URL> has a nice article on water purification . <URL> is a refined search of some of their water purification product . Except for the last day of the summit , the temperature should not be low enough for water to freeze . However , on the last day of the summit the temperature can get well below freezing , so you should have an insulated bottle for this part . If you carry a camelback , the water in the tube will also freeze if it 's not insulated .
They wanted $ 40 , but I managed to get it for $ 35 .
The other answers provide a bunch of handy tips for weeding out the absolute worst excuses for sushi , but little help for distinguishing the mediocre from the sublime . How , exactly , are you going to find out about " freshness " before you try it ? No , there 's only one rock-solid reliable indicator of excellent sushi : the opinion of the local Japanese expat community . No matter where you go in the world , there will be Japanese expats there and restaurants that cater to them , in two categories . Category one is for the expense-account salarymen set , who will pay whatever it takes for good sushi ; and category two is for the working holiday/married to local/university student/starving artist set , who occasionally want good sushi but are not willing to pay their monthly rent for a meal . Needless to say , the bang for buck is much better in category two : for example , the expense account set in Singapore liked a joint called <URL> , where dinner starts at S$ 165 + + , whereas students used to frequent a ( now closed , alas ) place tucked on the top floor of the Central shopping mall which did entirely respectable sushi sets for S$ 10 . Stupendous sushi at <URL> in Hampton , an obscure suburb of Melbourne , where the vast majority of " Japanese " food is dire . You will never , ever find this place unless you live next door , or ask a Japanese expat . The hard part is finding out these out , especially if you do n't know any local Japanese residents and do n't speak Japanese . As a rule of thumb , though , there will be always be a web forum that serves the local Japanese community : in Singapore , it 's <URL> , in Jakarta it 's <URL> , in Melbourne it 's <URL> , etc. . Then search for eg . 寿司 ( " sushi " ) or 美味しいお寿司屋さん ( " tasty sushi restaurant " ) , run the results through Google Translate , and you 'll find the best sushi in the place , guaranteed .
I found <URL> that addresses this very question : If you are entering the United States , you may be stopped by the Customs and Border Protection Officer at the inspection booth if the officer sees an arrest or fingerprint record reported in the database . That officer may take you to a separate interview area . As with the visa application , it is essential that you have with you documents issued by the court that address the original charges , and the subsequent disposition of the case . A letter from the lawyer who assisted you , that explains the charges and the judgment is also helpful . So long story short . If you check this box because you have been arrested you should have documentation that this was the case of mistaken identity or you have been released with no criminal issues pending . According to the page I linked above the consular services actually can ( in some cases ) perform a full background checks before considering granting you a visa .
Short answer , no -- not really . You could always take a change of clothes ( or at least a different top ) in your carry on and attempt to freshen up in the toilets . Take some wet wipes too . You could also try and find a shower in the city before heading to the airport . Depending what airport you 're in there may be a way to pay for lounge / shower access -- if there 's a transit hotel they let you pay for a room for an hour . However , I really would n't worry about it that much . If you can change at least some of your clothes it 'll make a big difference but your sense of smell is significantly dulled in flight so once you 're airborne I doubt people will notice . And planes are generally pretty smelly anyway ( although you never really notice until you land and you leave ) . If you 're really worried about it try to get a seat with noone beside you ( reserve a seat at the back of the plane , do n't check-in too early , check the seat plan when you check in and change seats if it looks like there 's a better chance of getting an empty seat beside you ) . Also , do n't use the aftershave . Or any other way to mask the scent . Putting on deorderant in the morning before everything is fine . But I 'd much rather sit next to someone who 's organically a bit wiffy than someone who 's tried to douse that in aftershave . The first I 'll get used to after a while , the second is likely to give me a headache and make the flight much less enjoyable . But thanks for worrying about it -- most people do n't ( which is why you probably should n't too much either ) .
end question
start question
Is it possible to buy unlimited 3G/4G internet in Italy ?
I 'm not aware of any carrier here that offers the kind of service you need . Most of them have an " unlimited " traffic options but after a certain threshold of GBs what happens is that you can still navigate the web but with a MUCH slower speed . Your best bet is to subscribe for ADSL and then unsubscribe it before leaving but you have to be VERY careful because you may need to unsubscribe with some kind of forewarning . The most important carriers in Italy are : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I would say that the right answer to your question heavily depends on how many and which museums you are going to visit . Some of them may not even allow to buy tickets online , but others may allow to print the tickets at home . Roma Pass comes in two versions : 48h and 3-days . It could be a good choice because it allows free direct entry to the first two visited museums in its 3-days version and to the first one in the 48h version . The Colosseum also has a dedicated entry for Roma Pass holders . For the museum visited thereafter you will get just a discount ( some are even free ) , but no direct access . Note that the Pass also gives access to public transports ( buses , trams , metros ) . Of course not every museum in Rome is associated with the Roma Pass ; compare the <URL> and <URL> to your plans to decide if the Pass is good for you . Public transports tickets are available at almost any newsagent and at automatic vending machines at any metro station , so you wo n't need to wait in line to get them . Each museum has its own opening hours , but as a general rule ( widely respected ) they are open on Sundays , but closed on Mondays . The Colosseum and the Baths of Caracalla are exceptions and are open also on Mondays . I hope I have helped . Have a great time in Rome !
According to <URL> of 1.5 billion domestic airfares over almost 5 million trips the answer is no , it is not more expensive to buy at Christmas simply because it is Christmas . The price fluctuates considerably with a sweet spot of cheap stability seen " one to four months out " . You may well have seen the price increase , but given the degree of change they have observed this is a normal part of the process and is not associated with the time of year .
The short answer is : depends . There are multiple discussions on <URL> regarding the subject . One from <URL> and another from <URL> . General consensus is that it is not possible with few exceptions : Accompanying live cargo Being an employee of the company flying the cargo In the remote areas like Alaska it may be possible to be flying a half and half plane . Half cargo - Half passenger . You are an airline crew member or a courier in that case you can request a <URL> ( maybe someone can enlighten me what Groom means here ) Save those you are likely to be denied access to the plane
ATMs will only dispense cash in the local currency , but you might be able to get USD from a money changer because USD is quite popular .
It 's possible and easy . You just have to go to one of the many mobile shops around and buy the sim card . In Portugal there are 3 physical operators : <URL> formerly known as <URL> <URL> <URL> You also have some virtual operators : <URL> - they usually have nice prices but everything is done on-line . You can buy a card in mobile phone shops or by snail mail <URL> - similar to uzo <URL> - you can find them in every post office shop ; it belongs to the post office company . <URL> - kind of new . It 's widely available and aparently with good prices . <URL> formerly known as ZON - it 's part of a cable tv group ; in principle a good solution but only if you subscribe to cable <URL> A very recent virtual operator , currently offering Internet when you top up . Recharging a pre-paid simcard in Portugal , for someone from abraod , can be a problem since the most common way of doing it is in ATM machines . You probably ca n't recharge your phone with a foreign ATM card since you only get a small set of operations . The alternative way is to go to the physical shop where you bought the card ( or another one from that network ) or go to any shop with " payshop " . You can find a near by agent here <URL> ( only pt ) . Lycamobile allows for an on-line recharge .
Technically , you can . Practically , 4 hours is not that much time . If you 're admitted to the US on arrival , you go out through the immigration and customs , and its up to you whether to turn left ( connections ) or right ( exit ) , no-one forces you to go either way . I might have confused left and right , have n't been in LAX international arrivals for a while now . You 'll have to go through the security again if you exit ( if I remember correctly - you 'll have to go through the security either way , but I may be wrong on this ) . To answer your second question : the closest Apple Store is in <URL> , 10 minutes from LAX by cab . The <URL> , both along Sepulveda Blvd South , on your left when driving from the airport . If you 're into buying electronics , then right in between there 's <URL> . You can go to the mall , and walk your way back to Best Buy ( 10 minutes walk + stop at Fry 's , beware of the time though , people tend to spend hours at Fry 's :-) ) , and get a cab back ( call the cab ahead of time though ) .
I used TomTom Route planner to check this out . And it confirms that <URL> , so I 'd suspect it 's totally fine to travel on .
Are your tickets separate or one booking ? If they are two different tickets , then the Passenger Service Charge applies because you are technically / legally originating from Bangkok for the second one . The fact that you arrived in Bangkok only 12 hours earlier and did not leave the transit lounge does not negate this aspect . If you have a single ticket and Bangkok is just a layover , then the airline should not have charged the fee and you need to contact them about refunding the incorrect charge .
I 'm in the same position as you -- I 've been working in Sweden for the last 5 years , and I can tell you from experience that certain things will be difficult or nigh impossible if you do n't have personnummer . Talking specifically about banking , no , it wo n't be possible at all . Even with personal number you might run into difficulties if you are only a student and are not otherwise working in the country -- you 'll need to convince them that you actually need a Swedish bank account . Obviously , when you are working , you are already required to have a personnummer , and setting up an account would be easy in this case . Other things that might be difficult or impossible without a personal number : Buying a car from a private person Signing an accommodation contract The list goes on . Personally , I do n't see why you are surprised by this -- imagine similar situations in your own country and see how that will work out . Besides , for EU citizens it 's relatively easy and painless to obtain a personal number . But you should already have a temporary personal number which is issued with the cooperation of your education institution -- I had it when I first arrived in Sweden and did n't have to do anything special . These numbers have a letter in them as the fourth-to-last digit to distinguish them from ordinary PNs . At any rate , if you want to obtain a Swedish PN , you need to do only two things : Register with <URL> , the Swedish migration authorities . Even as EU citizen ( which I assume you are ) , you are required to register your temporary residence if you stay in the country for more than three months . Note that there are similar requirement in other EU countries , so this should not surprise you . It 's standard procedure , you should only present your letter of acceptance from the educational institution along with your passport , and it takes a week or two at the most . You should also provide some information about your current accommodation . Apply also for a Swedish personal number from <URL> ( the Swedish Tax agency , which among other things , issues personal numbers ) . This could be tricky if you are in Sweden only for a year or two ( you should have a valid cause to request one ) , but if you are persistent and persuasive , you might be able to get one -- some of the elderly ladies in Skatteverket are charmed easily , especially if you are polite and try to talk to them in Swedish . Consult the Skatteverket website for some more information , or visit their local office .
There is a related question <URL> however your situation is slightly different . You are looking to short-check one bag to Lisbon . As the related post says , airlines are often reluctant to do this as they wish to ensure that you are flying the itinerary as sold . People who request to short-check bags are sometimes attempting to take advantages of fare discrepencies to bypass the airline 's revenue management , and many airlines have instituted policies to prevent it . In your case , it is obvious that short-checking only one bag would not allow you to leave the airport at LIS . If the airline personnel are logical , they should understand this and tag only one bag to ORY and one to LIS . Technically , this is entirely possible . Update : I contacted TAP and they said all you need to do is inform their staff at check-in .
Yes , and it can even be done on the <URL> ! You need to search for a ticket from Swindon to Heathrow Bus , and it 'll give you them as shown here : <URL> The ticket will be valid to Heathrow Terminal 5 as well , if that 's where you wanted to go
No . Miles are not a currency that can be moved between programmes . There are some exceptions ( such as Avios , which can be moved between the British Airways Executive Club and the Iberia Plus ) but this is unusual . I am not aware of any SkyTeam programmes that work like this . If it is absolutely essential that you move the miles you might be able to convert via a common hotel partner or through some third party unofficial swap website . But it is likely to be very poor value in the first case and in the second case , a violation of the programme 's terms and conditions . You may buy flights from any SkyTeam airline using any other SkyTeam account . But you can not merge or pool your miles together .
Hippietrail suggested making this a full answer , so here you go : For dengue , the answer is emphatically no . There are four strains of dengue fever , and while getting one of them confers life-long immunity to that strain , each successive infection with dengue of a different strain carries with it a considerably higher risk of either dengue haemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome . You really , really do n't want either one . This , incidentally , is why you wo n't be seeing a vaccine for dengue fever for quite some time - researchers are justifiably concerned that unless they can confer 100 % immunity for all four strains , the vaccine will actually increase the risk for severe disease . For malaria , its something of a harder question based on a number of different factors , but its not something I would ever count on over malaria prophylaxis , even if you were staying very long term .
Best answer is probably - legally : yes . Realistically : no . You 're signing a contract that you agree to pay for damages , beer from the minibar , etc , and as a minor , you ca n't legally enter into a contract . So legally they could ' let you ' , but it 's highly unlikely that they 'd want to expose themselves to a risk like that . From <URL> : Hotels may generally evict a guest and keep the room rental payment , despite the eviction , for the following reasons : Disorderly conduct Nonpayment Using the premises for an unlawful purpose or act Bringing property onto the premises that may be dangerous to others Failing to register as a guest Using false pretenses to obtain accommodations Being a minor unaccompanied by an adult registered guest < ========= this one Violating federal , state , or local hotel laws or regulations Violating a conspicuously posted hotel or motel rule Failing to vacate a room at the agreed checkout time <URL> may also prove to be of interest . It seems the one " loophole " you might have is for a parent to write a letter of consent and provide a security deposit in advance . But I 'd contact them first to check . Otherwise , you may just need to resort to " couchsurfing " - although I ca n't officially condone that , as <URL> requires that you be 18 to use its service ...
I have never come over any ATMs with dollars in Tanzania . I have lived in Arusha for a year ( 2004/2006 ) and have been there off and on since . I seriously doubt you will find any such ATMs . The country is however flooded with ATMs , though the one at Kilimanjaro airport was in disrepair around two months ago , last time I passed through that airport . ATMs with Tanzanian shillings ( tsh ) are available in most towns and along major roads . You can usually get prices in tanzanian shillings instead of dollars . Nobody are obliged to pay in dollars in Tanzania , although hotel owners and others may ask for dollars for many reasons . It used to be like that , but I am sure not any more . Just checked with a friend of mine ( tour operator ) and they were quite sure . The TANAPA ( Tanzania National Parks ) and many others also facilitate for payments using hand held VISA terminals .
Any question about staying overnight at an airport can usually be answered by consulting the comprehensive <URL> website . It 's probably best to read the reviews on that site to see the experiences of previous passengers there . Since you 're arriving from an international flight , you will have to clear security , re-check your luggage if you have any , and you may or may not be allowed through security for your flight the next day . I suspect you wo n't be allowed through but ca n't confirm that . If there has been disruption , apparently the airport sets up cots for passengers . If not , you will have to find a bench or quiet corner to sleep . If you can afford it , you 'll obviously be a lot more comfortable in a hotel . Looking on google maps for hotels near the airport , there seem to be reasonably inexpensive hotels nearby in the order of $ 80 - $ 100 .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
I 'm not aware of any carrier here that offers the kind of service you need . Most of them have an " unlimited " traffic options but after a certain threshold of GBs what happens is that you can still navigate the web but with a MUCH slower speed . Your best bet is to subscribe for ADSL and then unsubscribe it before leaving but you have to be VERY careful because you may need to unsubscribe with some kind of forewarning . The most important carriers in Italy are : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
end question
