start question
Road journey from Europe to Mecca ?
First , it will not be " straight and easy " : the Middle East is full of unstable countries , underdeveloped infrastructure , political and diplomatical issues between neighbor countries and bureaucracy . But it can be interesting to travel these routes and discover less-traveled places and meet locals nevertheless . From Europe to the Middle East The first part of your trip can be done quite easily by train <URL> ( see also <URL> / <URL> / <URL> options ) and <URL> . It 's easy to do by car too , and you wo n't have to pay huge taxes for your car in Europe or Turkey . In the other countries , import taxes on foreign cars may be very high and make it more interesting to rent a car ( and possibly a driver ) locally in each country or take public transportation / taxis / buses . Through Iran You can travel by bus easily , and <URL> where there are <URL> ( but the service seems to be <URL> <URL> ) . You can also take a plane to cross the Ormuz straits . <URL> is Bushehr-Dammam , but Bushehr is not reachable by train ( <URL> and flights exist though ) . A <URL> can be found on the <URL> . Beware of the security / diplomatic situation between your home country and Iran . Through Syria This is of course not recommended at the moment . From Damascus ( where you can arrive by train , car or bus from Turkey ) , go to Amman <URL> ( notoriously slow , taking up to ten or twelve hours for a trip that a service taxi does in less than three hours on the road , so it is really interesting only for those looking for a " train experience " ) , car or bus . There are no other passenger railway services in Jordan , so you 'll have to take cars/taxis/buses from Amman to Makkah . Through Iraq This is suicidal at the moment , and most borders remain closed or with big restrictions . Do n't attempt it . Avoiding Israel , Iran , Iraq and Syria : through Egypt While this will require from you to take boats or flights , there is also the possibility to make a detour through Egypt and to <URL> , avoiding Israel . You would have to take a ferry from Greece to Cyprus and from Cyprus to Egypt . As of now , the line between Limassol ( Cyprus ) and Port-Said ( Egypt ) <URL> . But it might reopen at some point for pedestrians . The <URL> line is also suspended . So right now your only option would be <URL> : it wo n't be easy . Saudi Arabia The trickiest part of your trip , apart from instable countries like Syria or Iraq right now , is probably Saudi Arabia itself . The only way you can cross the country by land is on a ( very rare ) tourist visa , or a work visa and permission from your employer to wander around the country . If you come on a Hajj or Umrah visa , you will most of the time <URL> . Some pilgrims arrive by land or by sea , but they are coming from nearby / poor countries where air travel is not an option for everyone , and they 're still part of a group . <URL> to Riyadh or other Saudi Arabian cities is usually not permitted during the <URL> . During Umrah , visitors may obtain permission after arrangements have been made with a travel agency to travel to other cities in Saudi Arabia . Umrah visa holders may only visit Saudi Arabia outside of the annual Hajj period . Inside Saudi Arabia , almost all your land travel will be by car , taxi or bus . The only rail connection today ( apart from the <URL> ) is <URL> , allowing you if you have the necessary visas to connect with <URL> . There are <URL> though , even if they 're not as large as the Ottoman-era Anatolian ( Istanbul-Ankara ) , <URL> ( Konya-Baghdad ) and <URL> ( Damascus-Mecca ) railways yet ( the only other neighbor country involved in today 's projects being Jordan ) . Israeli visas or stamps in your passport , or an Israeli birthplace will have your visa request or entry denied . You may be able to have you entry stamp to Israel put on a separate sheet of paper , but <URL> so prepare for changing plans if you go that route ! Note that tourist visas to Saudi Arabia are not typically granted , and I did n't hear of tourist visas for individual travelers yet . This may be changing in the future , in light of the <URL> and the recent acceptance of large tourist groups . You can get all information regarding visas and associated fees from the <URL> . Note also that unless traveling <URL> , women will have the most difficult time getting a visa into Saudi Arabia ( it 's easier if they are old , but not guaranteed nevertheless ) . Women will be required to wear an abaya ( full face and body cover ) once they get off of the plane and in all public places throughout their stay . Men should not wear shorts in public or go without a shirt ( think of taking clothing like the one you require for visiting a mosque for your whole trip inside KSA ) . Men and women who are not relatives are not allowed to travel together in Saudi Arabia if <URL> are not with them at all times . Finally , you have to be a Muslim ( and prove it through a certificate delivered by your imam if your name does n't sound Muslim ) to enter Makkah and Madinah .
<URL> , according to Wikitravel . There is no road or rail system . The easiest way to get around Greenland is by plane , particularly Air Greenland . In the summer , Arctic Umiaq Line passenger ships provide service to destinations between Narsarsuaq and Uummannaq along the west coast . Of course , if you got a skidoo or dog sled , you could make your own way around ;) Wikipedia actually has more information - <URL> The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways , no inland waterways , and virtually no roads between towns . It goes into further detail about the few roads that do exist : There are 150 km ( 90 mi ) of roads in the whole country ; 60 km ( 40 mi ) of the roads are paved . Two towns are connected by a 4.5 km road , Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit ; the rest are isolated .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
You could simply get an <URL> . This , coupled with your US driver 's license , is recognised in over 70 countries . The American Automobile Association and the American Automobile Touring Alliance 's <URL> are the only entities in the United States to issue IDPs . As for recognising your country license , each EU country is different . No EU country is obliged to recognise an international license , even if already recognised by a fellow country . <URL> : An International Driving Permit ( IDP ) , available from AAA ( in the United States only ) , must accompany a U.S. driver 's license ; failure to have the IDP with a valid license may result in denial of an insurance claim after an accident . So since you need an IDP for the Czech Republic , I 'd recommend just getting it and then you 're covered for any European country .
I 've done plenty of road tripping myself , all over North America , and I think I have some idea of what you want ... Back in the bad old days , before Google , a " map " was physically printed on paper , and there were entire books you could buy which had maps of various parts of the geography of a country , as well as a section showing the distances between various towns and cities . I hear they still exist . By knowing the distance you intend to travel , you can fairly well estimate how long it will take . Try this experiment : Drive from Montreal to Sherbrooke , at an off-peak time of day . Note the time you start and end , and the distance you travel . You should come up with approximately 90 minutes and 150 kilometers . If you check Google Maps , it will suggest a very similar time and distance . Knowing this , you may consider a rule of thumb that you can travel 100 kilometers in an hour on an autoroute ( or Interstate in the US ) . Let 's call it 60 miles , since the US is still a backward country that has n't quite adopted the metric system . This seems like a very good estimate , in my experience . Now , drive back to Montreal and this time , do n't use the autoroute . Use the smaller provincial highways and back roads . Again , you should come up with 150 kilometers , but this time it will take two and a half hours ! This suggests that you can estimate your overall speed on such roads at 60 km/h ( or 35 miles in the US ) . This also seems like a good estimate to me . Similarly you can figure out how much time it takes to get off the highway , fill your gas tank and get back on the highway ( maybe five minutes ; not long enough to worry about ) . You must be hungry after all that driving , so find yourself a diner ! Note the time you walk in the door , and the time you leave . Depending on how quickly you 're served and how quickly you eat , this may take you anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour . Repeat this at several other restaurants , and get a sense of how long it takes you to eat , how long it takes you overall at different types of restaurants , etc. . Crossing the border ( usually 5 to 60 minutes , depending on traffic ) . Not much more to be said about this . What remains to estimate is how much time you want to spend at various attractions . For this , you 'll first need to figure out what you might want to see and do . For instance , you might wish to drive the <URL> . You can do that in ... by our estimate above , just under an hour . But there are several places along the highway that you might want to stop and look at something . That might take you five minutes , or you might be inspired to stand there and watch a waterfall for hours . Only you know for sure . One thing I will advise you not to do is to plan your trip with strict adherence to a schedule . It sounds like you might be tempted to do this . On a road trip especially , you will often run into something that you want to stop and spend some time looking at , and if you feel rushed , then you might not do so , even if you actually had plenty of time . And even if you do run short on time , Quebec is not that far away ... If I were going to give you a nice rule of thumb , I would say to figure on 12 hours for your evening meal , sleeping , getting up and having breakfast . Then about one hour driving for every hour doing something " touristy " ... give or take . You might decide to stay a couple of days in some town , for instance . If you 're still not sure , find a couple of tourist attractions right in your city and visit them . See how long it takes . Most people never do this , which is unfortunate for them ...
The best I can recommend to you is to become a <URL> ( Deutscher Alpenverein , DAV ) or the <URL> ( ÖAV , all links in German ) . Membership costs varies depending on the " Sektion " you choose to become a member of ( you can choose freely and I know many people who choose one purely based on cost ) but is in the range of EUR50 and comes with <URL> ( through ASS for the DAV ) . @Relaxed suggests in <URL> that the ÖAV should be your first try , as they have a <URL> and <URL> as well as less restrictions in their terms and conditions . I second that advice ! What you get is Search and rescue costs up to $ 25,000 Repatriation with no upper cost limit Reimbursement of expenses due to hospitalisation after accidents occurring in the course of leisure activities or business as well as illness , up to $ 10,000 Third party liability insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 3,000,000 Legal expenses insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 35,000 <URL> You will want to look to the " A " column ( full member ) which you can sort . Currently it seems the " Alpenfreunde Euskirchen " are the cheapest at EUR40 annually . At first search I could not find a homepage for them so you might be happier at another , more internet-affine " Sektion " . In Austria the fees seem to be the same across sections and <URL> , currently you pay EUR61 per annum to be a full member , but they mention extra charges for members from abroad due to higher processing expenses .
<URL> Non-Muslims are strictly prohibited from entering the city of Mecca . Road signs to guide non-Muslims are provided . The minimum penalty is deportation from the country . Documentation will be checked upon entry and anyone not showing proof of being Muslim will be refused entry . As a solitary exception , the Mecca bus terminal ( outside city limits ) is open to all . More : If you remain on the main highway , there is a police checkpoint just after the exit , where non-Muslims are kept out of the holy city . Actually this is decision of Allah and he stated in Quran : " Oh you who believe ! Truly the idolaters are unclean ; so let them not , after this year , approach the Sacred Mosque "
I traveled all the way through the USA from the east coast to the west coast , by car and RV . I thought about getting a UMTS / LTE stick for my Notebook , too . But there really was n't any need for this . You can get FREE WIFI almost everywhere : Coffee Shops ( Starbucks , etc. ) Fast food Restaurants ( Pizza Hut , McDonalds , KFC , etc. ) Camp grounds Hotels Shops / Malls Libraries In rare cases you get WIFI access even here : Cinemas Grocery Stores Gas Stations I can also tell you , that the UMTS internet coverage is n't that good when you plan to visit national parks or other nature reserves . Whilst driving through the less populated middle of the USA there are times when you even do n't get your cell phone working -- > NO Service ! So if you really feel the need for uninterupted internet access , you should carefully check the coverage of your Mobile-ISP
That is more or less correct . Tickets are available starting 5 days before departure and have to be bought in person . Travel agencies can act as a proxy to buy on your behalf , but they also have to physically go to the train station to buy your ticket . I would guess this agency 's specification of dates has been simply padded a bit to cover things like holidays , weekends or such that might delay buying or sending tickets .
In all the countries you have listed , soy milk is easy enough to find ; most supermarkets will sell it . In France , you should be able to find it in Super U , Auchan , and Carrefour , and maybe in some Aldi and Lidl too if they 're big enough . In Switzerland , I got many links to Reform Haus ; you can find those in most of the northern part of the country . In Germany , most ( if not all ) supermarkets will have it , even smaller ones . Same in Italy ; you 'll find it with the boxed milk section , or the refrigerated aisle , along with other soy products . And in the UK , you should n't have to worry , even small Co-operative or Spar stores will have it sometimes . And if you ever ca n't find it in those , you can try Asian stores . Those are a pretty safe bet . Basically : Yes , soy milk is pretty easy to find in Western Europe .
I do n't know why there are no road maps of Iceland - but to answer the implied question of other ways of getting Iceland maps the following may be helpful . When I 've needed navigation data for Iceland I 've used <URL> , on a Garmin device . It looks like it should be possible to get them to work on a TomTom for more details see <URL> . I 've got no experience using them on TomToms so I 'm afraid I ca n't offer any more advice on how to set it up .
I use <URL> to plan my itineraries . The website is a bit more clumsy than Google Maps , but the itineraries and ancillary information are of a better quality . In ViaMichelin you also get maps . An overview maps of the whole trip as well as detailed maps for the different steps . These are the same maps as the Michelin maps you would buy on paper . Compared to Google , it is easier to zoom in and to print a given area . The more difficult part is related to printing . It is hard to fit a whole trip on an A4 page . Even for a smaller trip , such as e.g. Brussels - Frankfurt/Main ( + - 400km ) it is hard to obtain a map that is still useable and readable . Moreover , if you take into consideration the price of colour ink or toner , apparently free maps come at a cost . When it comes to long distance travel , my personal conclusion is that there are no ( free ) online resources , which might be able to compete with traditional maps and atlases . If you do not want to spend too much money on maps and atlases , you can do the following . There are road atlases covering Europe or parts of it . These are updated every year . When the updates are available or about to come out , the " older " ones are sold with huge discounts . These atlases are not " dernier cri " anymore , but remain very accurate and reliable . But , before a trip , you can always cross-check with ViaMichelin or alike . Things are different if you are interested in local information . You can have destinaiton specific resources such as <URL> in the United Kingdom . As suggested in the comments , you might also be able to find free online maps made available by local tourist offices .
There will be absolutely no change for you . No change in visa requirements . No change in anything . Firstly , post-referendum the UK government need to work out terms of the exit . Based on prior examples , this could take forever ! Then , <URL> . The Treaties shall cease to apply to the State in question from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement or , failing that , two years after the notification referred to in paragraph 2 , unless the European Council , in agreement with the Member State concerned , unanimously decides to extend this period . O.m. Is slightly misguided - there is no way to immediately do this .
Firstly , I have slept in plenty of hostels in the UK , without using a YHA card . Any hostel on HostelWorld or <URL> will let you stay there without any loyalty cards . Your best bet is to follow this approach : Go to Hostelbookers ( often cheaper than Hostelworld ) . Choose country , city , and dates . Look at the ones available . Generally they have dorms ( multiple people in a room ) from 3-30 ( ! ) , depending on the hostel . Evaluate based on amenities , price , reviews and the type - some are party hostels ( generally the atmosphere rating is high then ) , some are more low key and friendly . Check for things like - are families welcome ( you may not want kids around ) , does it have a bar ( often louder and drunker ) , and so on . If it 's a HI Hostel ( Hostelling International ) or a YHA one , you can get discount cards for those groups . Often however , you can negotiate on arrival if it 's not too busy , or ask for a discount for multiple nights - generally for smaller or owner-operated hostels . Book ahead , especially in summer - if you have a limited selection , some towns sell out fast at certain times , when festivals are on , for example . Sometimes you 'll start to see similar hostels - chains - in different cities ( eg The Point hostels in South America ) . This gives you an idea as to the standards and conditions and style of the hostel ( also Base in New Zealand , and Wombats in much of Central Europe - Austria and Germany ) . You sometimes get discounts for staying at the same chain - loyalty if you will . The Point used to give free drinks and a t-shirt . Go figure . Of your country list , one exception is Croatia . There are still hostels , but if you go to the Plitvice National Park , there are entire streets near the entrance with normal homes . They have signs outside with either ' no room ' , or a price - and you can rent a room in a house for a night . It was fantastic , private , and very reasonable .
Personally I did n't plan much , just went with the flow , but that depends on how much freedom you have . Work out how much time you have . Bear in mind that a Russian tourist visa is 30 days , but you can get a Business visa for tourist purposes ( I had zero problems ) and that 's valid for 60 days , multiple entry . Work out your budget . Hostels are pretty cheap in most cities . However , Moscow and St Petersburg are expensive - European expensive . Starbucks in Moscow ( I use it for my price gauge ) was frightening ! Work out what cities you want to stop off in . You do NOT want to just train from end to end . Remember , Russia is BIG . Russia is LONG . Russian trains are SLOW . There are frequent stops - although they are almost to the minute reliable , in my experience . As an indication , Moscow to Novosibirsk takes 52 hours . Work out what class you want to travel in . Platzkart is fun to do for some segments - you get beds in a 54-bed carriage . It 's social , you meet lots of people . Kupe class is 4-beds in a cabin . More secure and quiet , but if you get crappy roommates , it can suck . Work out if you want top or bottom bunk - the price varies . Also some trains ( Between St Petersburg and Moscow , for example ) can also offer merely seating class - but you always seem to get 2 seats or more to yourself , so can sleep quite comfortably , although it 's a lot less secure , and you quite often get drunken soldiers or louts keeping you awake . Work out what sites are near each city , and therefore how long you want to spend there . As a starting point , Moscow does n't near nearly as much time as St Petersburg . Also be aware that if you stop in Irkutsk , you 'll want to go to Lake Baikal , which to do properly you 'll want three days , minimum . Work out a rough guide for length , activities , price and see if this fits into your visa . Look at flights in and out of start and end points ( I assume you 're not going both ways on the train ) . Look at visas for Mongolia and China - but you can pick these up in Irkutsk , Russia quite easily ( Mongolian visa takes 2 days , or less if you 're prepared to pay ) . Do you want to go into the desert in Mongolia ? It 's a minimum 4-5 day tour from Ulaanbaatar . Assuming you finish in Beijing , allow time to travel there as well . Put a couple of buffer / rest days in here and there . Although you will get a lot of resting time on the trains . Learn the ten most useful phrases . Hello , thank you , train station , bus station " where is x " , your country in Russian , and " what time is x " is an excellent start . Decide if you 're going to buy all your tickets outside the country . Personally I would n't , it gives you more flexibility and I 've never had a problem getting a train ticket even the day before in Russia - well , aside from in Irkutsk after 7pm . Get invitation , get visa , buy flights . Go to Russia , and enjoy it !
Casual thieves will try to defeat the ignition/steering lock and either ride off with it or ramp it onto the back of a pickup . Professional thieves will bring a couple of bars of rebar and a buddy or three , pick up your ride and haul it into a truck . Prefer covered/underground/garaged parking over uncovered/lot/street parking . If fewer people can see your motorcycle , fewer people will be tempted to make off with it . Most thefts occur between 11 PM and 6 AM when there are n't too many people around ; a well-lit , high-visibility parking lot wo n't deter a seasoned criminal if there 's nobody around to see him . If you can , also park between obstructions , in low-clearance areas ... anywhere it would be difficult to maneuver a pickup or truck to load the bike into it . However , be careful not to park in front of access doors , in striped zones ( e.g. , next to handicap spaces ) and near machinery . Granted , your bike will be perfectly safe in the impound lot ...
Without any relevant exception I can think of , there is no such thing as an " area between land borders " . A land border between two countries follow in almost all cases a very well defined path and what you actually mean is the area between two border control posts . If you e.g. locate the border crossing on E75 between Hungary and Serbia on <URL> , you can see that the actual border is pretty much exactly in the middle between the checkpoints . So , even if you travel from Hungary to Serbia on this road , have passed the Hungarian checkpoint and for immigration purposes technically left Hungary , you are still in Hungary until you cross the border .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
Great question ! As it has been already mentioned in the comments . There is no such thing as a " European " protocol . Look at kissing . In the Netherlands people tend to kiss three times . In Belgium it is one kiss on greeting . In Sweden hugging is the way to go , when meeting people . Kissing is considered more intimate . In France people kiss either 2 or 4 times . However , even since the custom is three kisses in the Netherlands there are still quite some who really do n't like the kissing and always approach with a firm hand . You indicated that you do the same , which I think is the best thing you can do . Personally I do kiss on the cheek as a greeting , but not always . It is a subtle nuance hard to explain . If you are okay with handshakes you should n't worry . First people are in general quite considerate and will understand that with your different background you ca n't be expected to know the greeting standards . I have known people who just used the custom from their background , being either a small bow or a greeting with the hands put together and a subtle head down . It is the gesture that counts . People meeting you will probably appreciate you and your cultural background and will like the gesture . I am not saying that everybody will accept it , but those that do n't will have more issues , so it is not worth being bothered about them .
end question
start question
How long should I schedule to travel from Manila to General Santos , Philippines ?
Most of these flights are on so small airlines that it 's hard to get historical performance data on but the <URL> flight out of 34 observations , 85 % was on time , averaging only 9 minutes of delay , maximum 31 minutes of delay . So yes , the schedule is pretty firm . <URL> does show some bus connections but it 's 1.5-2 days and does not show a significant savings over a flight taking less than 2 hours so I have not pursued this avenue further . On further research I have found some outdated information on ferries going from Manila to Iloilo and on to General Santos taking even longer closer to three days . I have n't researched this either but the Wikipedia page on <URL> reports it to be a modern fleet so one can presume it 's on schedule .
India does n't have a strong tipping culture . Still tourists are used to tip there , especially when they had a good service . And to be honest , this is a general trend in the vast majority of countries around the world . When you have received a good service , you are encouraged to tip . This is a way to show your appreciation and also to make those people life a bit better . This also encourage them to deliver good service to other tourists . 10 years ago , it was pretty different but with the explosion of tourism in a lot of countries , tipping has quickly become something that is expected and widely accepted . Now with regards to the amount ! This is a key point . You should tip between 3 % and 10 % of the overall amount . So if this is something " expensive " , you 'll usually pay around 3-5 % and if this is cheap , more around 7-10 % ( for instance 70 to 100 INR for a 1,000 INR bill ) . Then your comment is right , you should also take into consideration the salary . In India , depending on the region , the level of seniority and the grade of the restaurant/hotel , the staff is paid between 7.000 INR and 15.000 INR per month . So for instance , if someone helps you with your luggage . Let 's say that you have 2 large pieces and bring them to your home . If this takes 10 minutes , you could tip him 20-40 INR . I recently wrote a post about tipping in different countries . It is n't specific to India but <URL> .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
This is one of the rare occasions where taking a train might actually be a good mode of transportation . Having lived in Indianapolis for close to 10 years and having gone through the new airport I can tell you that getting through it will be a breeze . Nontheless . <URL> might be one of the few routes where it might be worth taking just for the views starting in Kentucky and going all the way through the Appalachia . The worst of the views you would probably sleep through , if you can given stops at best every hour . If you are taking the train from <URL> I do n't think that it would be of any advantage to you given that most of the traveling time would be during the night and Chicago to South Bend , IN is n't really pretty for most of that stretch .
According to <URL> ( Japanese only ) a standard letter from Osaka to Tokyo will be delivered " next day " .
<URL> , China on the left , Japan on the right : <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> <URL> - <URL> Here 's some other links with overviews and details : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Oh and I almost forgot my favourite ! If by " mainland Asia " you want to include Siberia , <URL> !
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
I see five ways to salvage the situation . Spend the night in Milan and leave early on the following day . You will then be in Antibes around noon . Take the train to Ventimiglia and spend the night there . On the following day , continue to Antibes . You will then be able to arrive in Antibes in the early morning Rent a car in Milan , drive to Antibes and drop it there . It 's a 4-5 hours drive . You will then arrive on Antibes in the late evening . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and continue to Antibes by taxi . You can expect this to cost around 200 EUR . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and then a train to Nice . The last trains leave at 21h49 and 22h40 from Ventimiglia . Nice you can take a taxi . Cost ~ 70 EUR
The Canadian Government provides a <URL> to determine which possibilities you have to visit Canada and if a visa is required . In addition to your citizenship , there are a few other issues which may be relevant to determine the requirements , e.g. country of residence , any relationship with Canadian citizens , age or any previous permanent residence in Canada . Going through the questionnaire , you will be asked for all relevant details to determine the requirements for your stay . Basically , as a French citizen living in France , you can stay for up to 6 months as a tourist without a visa . If you want stay longer , you can apply for an extension of stay from within Canada . You should do this at least 30 days before the initial 6 months expire . I have the impression that Canadian immigration requirements are pretty relaxed , so if you have available means to finance your stay without working , I would assume that you should not experience any problems doing this .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
According to <URL> , the bus to Phuket runs every hour , while the one to Krabi is only once a day ( 11am departure ) . So on that front at least , there 's a good chance the Phuket route is the way to go . It 's a 4 hour bus ride approximately , while the ride to Krabi takes 3 . For the ferry , you have again the <URL> : Phuket ( Bang Rong Pier ) : 09:30 ; 11:00 ; 12:30 ; 14:30 ; 16:00 and 17:00 Phuket ( Chianwanich Pier ( near Ratsada Pier ) - Only to Ko Yao Yai ) : Every day : 8:30 , 17:00 ( speed boat ) | Sundays-Thursdays : 10:30 , 14:00 | Fridays : 10:00 | Saturdays : 6:00 , 10:30 , 14:00 Krabi ( Tha Len ) : 11:00 and 13:00 So again , the ferries are more frequent from Phuket than from Krabi ( the same applies from the island back ) . My recommendation in terms of flexibility , ease , and frequency - I would n't hesitate to take the Phuket route , unless you have a specific reason to see Krabi .
Personally I did n't plan much , just went with the flow , but that depends on how much freedom you have . Work out how much time you have . Bear in mind that a Russian tourist visa is 30 days , but you can get a Business visa for tourist purposes ( I had zero problems ) and that 's valid for 60 days , multiple entry . Work out your budget . Hostels are pretty cheap in most cities . However , Moscow and St Petersburg are expensive - European expensive . Starbucks in Moscow ( I use it for my price gauge ) was frightening ! Work out what cities you want to stop off in . You do NOT want to just train from end to end . Remember , Russia is BIG . Russia is LONG . Russian trains are SLOW . There are frequent stops - although they are almost to the minute reliable , in my experience . As an indication , Moscow to Novosibirsk takes 52 hours . Work out what class you want to travel in . Platzkart is fun to do for some segments - you get beds in a 54-bed carriage . It 's social , you meet lots of people . Kupe class is 4-beds in a cabin . More secure and quiet , but if you get crappy roommates , it can suck . Work out if you want top or bottom bunk - the price varies . Also some trains ( Between St Petersburg and Moscow , for example ) can also offer merely seating class - but you always seem to get 2 seats or more to yourself , so can sleep quite comfortably , although it 's a lot less secure , and you quite often get drunken soldiers or louts keeping you awake . Work out what sites are near each city , and therefore how long you want to spend there . As a starting point , Moscow does n't near nearly as much time as St Petersburg . Also be aware that if you stop in Irkutsk , you 'll want to go to Lake Baikal , which to do properly you 'll want three days , minimum . Work out a rough guide for length , activities , price and see if this fits into your visa . Look at flights in and out of start and end points ( I assume you 're not going both ways on the train ) . Look at visas for Mongolia and China - but you can pick these up in Irkutsk , Russia quite easily ( Mongolian visa takes 2 days , or less if you 're prepared to pay ) . Do you want to go into the desert in Mongolia ? It 's a minimum 4-5 day tour from Ulaanbaatar . Assuming you finish in Beijing , allow time to travel there as well . Put a couple of buffer / rest days in here and there . Although you will get a lot of resting time on the trains . Learn the ten most useful phrases . Hello , thank you , train station , bus station " where is x " , your country in Russian , and " what time is x " is an excellent start . Decide if you 're going to buy all your tickets outside the country . Personally I would n't , it gives you more flexibility and I 've never had a problem getting a train ticket even the day before in Russia - well , aside from in Irkutsk after 7pm . Get invitation , get visa , buy flights . Go to Russia , and enjoy it !
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
There are trains between these stations once in every two to three hours.You can show up at the railway station and get a ticket . Buses are more frequent and I would suggest that since the journey is not long .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
I would say no , not on the roads or paths , but there is only one thing you can expect from Iceland 's weather - that it 's unpredictable . Last year I 've been to þingvellir in late February and there was no snow on roads or paths , unless you drove through the mountains . However , this year the winter they have is so fierce , they consider <URL> ! I recommend these websites when planning trips : <URL> <URL> Have fun ! Iceland is a truly beautiful place .
I think you want an extension ticket , but see below . <URL> The idea is that you need to have one ticket that 's valid for your whole trip . Technically , on the journey out , you may step off the train at the last zone B station , validate the ticket , and step back onto the same train . But unless you know exactly where the validator is on the platform and position yourself accordingly , you 'll be stranded until the next train comes . On the return journey , you need to validate your single ticket at the start of the journey , and you 're supposed to step off and back on at the first zone B station . Technically , if a ticket inspector happens to step on at that point and realizes you did not have a ticket for the whole journey , the rules state that they should fine you . There is a different ticket , the <URL> ( Anschlussfahrschein ) , which is meant for use in combination with an ordinary A+B ticket to prolong one trip into zone C ( or start in zone C and continue through zone B and optionally A ) . This ticket is explicitly not allowed in combination with the A+B <URL> or with the A+B <URL> . I ca n't find a definitive reference regarding its validity in combination with a daily , weekly or longer ticket . The <URL> only explicitly excludes " WelcomeCards , CityTourCards , Schulklassen-Tickets und FamilienPass-Monatskarten " , so I surmise that it is valid in combination with other passes , but please confirm with a ticket office first ( and report back ! ) .
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
The Piedmont region in <URL> is pretty close to central Europe .
First of all , both Hamar and Lillehammer are located at the Lake Mjøsa , so there will be no net elevation change along the way . The pilgrim 's path does not follow the shore though , so there are some light to moderate inclines along the way , but always accompanied with following descents . Except from telling you that , noone here will be able to tell you which pace you prefer or can manage . Even being less than in ' decent shape ' , hiking 25-30km a day should IMHO be easily feasible in such light terrain . The <URL> of the pilgrim 's road suggests that you use four days ,
end question
start question
2 CharlieCards , 1 Wallet ?
The MBTA does n't have any official statement about this , but I would n't recommend doing it . The CharlieCard is a contactless smart card , and it activates when you place it close to a reader . If you place two cards next to the reader at the same time , it 's essentially random as to which one will actually be read and used . It is even possible for both of them to be recognized . Worse , if you have contactless credit or debit cards , those might also be read . Any of these will confuse the fare gate . Since one of your two cards is empty , if that is the card the reader sees , then the fare gate simply wo n't open . If it sees both cards , the fare gate might do something silly like immediately open and close again . If you 're feeling adventurous , you could try it out , but you could possibly lose money . London 's Oyster card is very similar , and Transport for London go out of their way to warn people against <URL> , where multiple cards are read by the system at the same time . Since contactless credit/debit cards can be used directly to pay in that system , it 's a much bigger issue there than in the US , where contactless credit/debit cards are uncommon ( now , but in a couple of years everyone will have them ) . As in London , in Boston I would recommend you always take out the CharlieCard you intend to use , and touch only it to the fare gate .
Staying for more than 90 days would be breaking the law , unfortunately for you . Moreover , the 90-day rule applies to all of the Schengen area , and the Schengen Agreement is now part of EU law . Therefore , by overstaying you would be breaking law of the entire EU , and also the non-EU Schengen members . The actual penalty for overstaying depends heavily on the circumstances , but there are generally three kinds of penalties that would apply , from most likely to least likely : A fine . No long-term consequences , but would probably offset your 200 $ savings . Deportation from Sweden . Could be together with the fine . Chapter 8 , Article 1 of the Swedish <URL> allows deportation in case something is wrong with paperwork or permits , including violations of the Schengen agreement . Section 4 of that Article also allows the same if you do not provide requested information about your stay or lie about it . That is , if you claim you 'd be returning within 90 days but show a ticket 91 day later , that 's also a violation . Such a deportation may or may not include a reentry ban of up to five years . A reentry ban would be reported to the Schengen Information System , see next point . An entry ban in Schengen . In this case , you 'd have that negative mark on your record in the Schengen information system - important to note that all Schengen countries share this . Article 24 of the <URL> is what allows a SIS alert banning you from entering based on the decision of an individual country ( Sweden in this case ) . The consequences may include a requirement for you to obtain a visa prior to future visits , with you no longer being allowed visa-free 90 day travel . The previous sentence is not correct , there 's no such provision in the SIS , the entry could merely require that you be denied entry . If you get a SIS alert entry , or suspect you did , it 's <URL> , and you could appeal the decision if you have an entry ban . A severe option , and extremely unlikely for a one-day overstay . Now , of course , another possibility is that you do not get caught or get let off with a verbal warning . Sometimes the border guards may not care to even check the dates when you 're leaving . Or they may decide to let it slide , but you never know . Another possibility , though unlikely , would be that border guards not only ask you about your plans on entry ( likely enough in itself ) but also ask to see a return ticket . Then you could run into trouble already on entry due to your ticket being on day 91 . Now for a couple of practical tips . Sweden does have long-term tourist visas , but they are not an option for you if you 're traveling in less than a month - the process takes much longer . Sweden 's an expensive country . 200 $ is n't much compared to what you will spend over the course of 3 months . I hope it 's clear from the answer that the potential consequences of being caught outweigh the savings . However , depending on where you are staying in Sweden ( which has very good train connections ) , it may be worth to investigate flights from other airports . If you are in Stockholm , and especially if you 're south of there , it 's easy to get to Copenhagen . If you 're in Gothenburg , it 's possible to get to Oslo in 4 hours for as little as 46 $ , so it may be worth it to consider flights from nearby countries in your planning .
I 'm answering my own question . 6 months ago , I accepted Prometheus 's answer , I really thanked him for searching information for me . But I removed the acceptance , because I afraid that people may get wrong information . The reason I want to apply a B2 visa for my wife , because J-2 is not reasonable for us . First , my internship was only 3 months , and my wife only intended to visit me for 1 month . However , if we applied for the J-2 visa , we would have to pay the insurance for 3 months for my wife . i.e. as long as my stay . And believe me , the insurance is extremely expensive . After searching for a while , I realized that spouse or under-21 children who intend to stay less than 6 months ( some pages say only 3 months ) in the US have the option to apply for a B visa . So I applied for a J-1 and my wife applied for a B2 . We arranged to have the appointment at the same time , but the US Embassy in London processed our applications separately . The funny thing was that : my J-1 visa was valid only for 5 months , but my wife 's visa is valid for 1 year . Moreover , she applied for a B2 visa , and they granted her a B1/B2 visa . However , note that a J-2 application is easier to be accepted than a B2 , since the dependent also has the sponsor from the host company etc. . We took a risk of applying B2 because my wife had travelled to the US alone several times before .
There are some great opportunities along you 're route . First of all I would go back to Girona or even Barcelona . Both are very interesting cities . From there you can go on to Andorra . In Andorra you ca n't do a lot of things , but hey your country-counter will increment by 1 . If you 're into mountains/hiking you can spend some time there . From Andorra I would go to Carcasonne . In Carcasonne you can visit the beautiful castle , the Canal du Midi or a old cathedral . The next stop I would make in Beziers which is also a beautiful city with an old cathedral . From there I would follow the cost line and stop in places like <URL> , Nimes , Montpellier or Marseille . Now it depends a little bit if you want to start in the south or east of Switzerland or in the west or Northern part . If you 're going the southern or eastern part I would follow the cost line a little bit more and visit Nice and Monaco.Then I would visit Turino or Milan and finally entering the beautiful southern part of Switzerland , <URL> . There are a lot of nice cities , like Lugano , Locarno or Bellinzona : But you will also find some interesting small villages in the mountains like for example <URL> . From Ticino you can cross the main part of the alps via the <URL> and then arrive in central Switzerland , for example Lucerne : If you want to start in the northern/western part of Switzerland i Would go from Marseille to <URL> and then from there to <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> to <URL> . I visited all the cities a mentioned here and I can really recommend it .
In all probability , you should be able to board the flight . I use the expression because this is not a matter of rules , but depends on various factors that can not be predetermined , such as the punctuality of the flight that lands you into Frankfurt , the rush on the two flights , and the number of people doing the transition from this to that . I had a similar experience once while flying Lufthansa from Bangalore to San Francisco . I had a little more time than you -- 90 minutes instead of 55 , but guess what , my Bangalore-Frankfurt flight was late by around an hour . 30 minutes would have been impossible to make the connect but the airlines staff knew that , and they boarded all passengers of the incoming flight that had to connect to the next flight to San Francisco in a separate coach , took them to a special window where they got their passports stamped , and then back onto the coach and the plane for the connecting flight . I think the connecting flight was even delayed by a few minutes as 30 minutes would not have been sufficient to transfer 50 + passengers . It was smooth for passengers , though a little tiring of flying 20 straight hours . One of my two check in bags did n't make it though . I got only one bag in SFO , and the other came to my hotel the next evening .
Time . I lived in both Zone 2 and Zone 3 in London ( 4 years on and off , in Putney , Southfields and Colliers Wood ) . Generally ( as a guy ) I felt safe walking most places in London at night , and on public transport . Zone 2 does n't feel safer than zone 3 , or less safe . It 's more the certain areas that some people might say to avoid ( but that 's a different topic ) . Zone 2 is not generally considered walking distance to Central London , although it might be , if you 're closer to Zone 1 - for example , I 've walked to Parliament from Earl 's Court easily , but from East Putney I would not be particularly keen - it 's a good 25 min on the tube ! From Ealing , you 've got a decent way on the tube or bus for every trip . District or Central line , both will take you into town , and it 's convenient for trains out west ( overground ) . But if you 're in town and want to ' pop home ' to get something for the evening , it 's a fair hike . It 'll totally depend where in Zone 2 the other option is . As seen on <URL> - Zone two covers an awful lot of suburbs , stations and possibilities . I 'd try and find out where it is . Of course , the other advantage of having a Zone 3 fare pass ( eg buy a Zone 1-3 travel card ) is that all your other trips to other Zone 3 locations would be essentially ' free ' . And it 's not that much more per week . The other thing to consider is if the tube is down , you 'll be taking the bus or overground . So if you know where you 're studying ( I assume that 's why you 're there ) or where you 'll be spending much of your time , play around with the <URL> and see how long it might take by bus , train , or tube . One final small benefit I did notice is that the further you were from Leceister Square ( in central London ) the cheaper movie tickets seemed to be , so that 's a plus ;)
The MBTA does n't have any official statement about this , but I would n't recommend doing it . The CharlieCard is a contactless smart card , and it activates when you place it close to a reader . If you place two cards next to the reader at the same time , it 's essentially random as to which one will actually be read and used . It is even possible for both of them to be recognized . Worse , if you have contactless credit or debit cards , those might also be read . Any of these will confuse the fare gate . Since one of your two cards is empty , if that is the card the reader sees , then the fare gate simply wo n't open . If it sees both cards , the fare gate might do something silly like immediately open and close again . If you 're feeling adventurous , you could try it out , but you could possibly lose money . London 's Oyster card is very similar , and Transport for London go out of their way to warn people against <URL> , where multiple cards are read by the system at the same time . Since contactless credit/debit cards can be used directly to pay in that system , it 's a much bigger issue there than in the US , where contactless credit/debit cards are uncommon ( now , but in a couple of years everyone will have them ) . As in London , in Boston I would recommend you always take out the CharlieCard you intend to use , and touch only it to the fare gate .
You 're a little off , but if you Google for ETOPS you 'll find the details on what you 're referring to . In short , twin-engine planes ( eg , 737 , 767 , 777 , A320 , A330 , etc ) were originally required to remain at all times within 60 minutes of a suitable airport where they could land . This was done so that in the event of an engine failure they could land as soon as possible so as to significantly reduce the chances of the second engine failing . Quad-engine planes ( 747 , A340 ) did not have any similar restrictions due to their ability to lose at least 2 engines and still remain flying . As engine reliability improved , and as the twin-engine planes started to prove their reliability , the FAA ( and other similar organizations around the world ) brought in a classification called " Extended Twin Operations " , or ETOPS , which allowed for certain approved aircraft , being flown by approved airlines , to fly further distances from an airport . There are a number of different ETOPS ratings , such as ETOPS-120 ( 120 minutes from an airport ) , ETOPS-180 , ETOPS-207 ( 180 +15 % ) , and now even ETOPS-330 which allows certain Boeing 777 's to be up to 5 1/2 hours from their nearest airport ! Airlines without ETOPS ratings will sometimes need to take alternate routes in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport . eg , when Virgin Australia ( Virgin Blue at the time ) started flying Sydney-Perth they had to take a much more northern route in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport , where rival Qantas could take a more southerly/shorter route as their planes were ETOPS rated . ( For a good story on what can happen when both engines on a twin-jet fail , Google for details of the " gimli glider " )
The rule is actually 60 min for domestic , 120 min for international . Some companies , like Delta , even require 3 hours for international flights . That could have a series of motivations , mainly due to convenience . Bigger planes imply more luggage to load , more people to wait , more people to get on board . It seems reasonable that they do n't want the plane to get delayed with people who came barely earlier than 30 min . And they obviously need to admin on board everyone who came before the stipulated time .
Here in Spain it would be very typical to end the toast saying : ¡ Vivan los novios ! , in a typical catholic wedding this sentence would also be employed when the newly married went out of the church and people started throwing rice at them and shouting this aloud . It means ( more or less , I do n't know how to translate it exactly ) that you 're wishing them a long and happy life together .
While the city is only 15 minutes drive from the airport at times , given your narrow window , it would make more sense for your friend to come to the airport to meet you . Indeed , <URL> suggests that in busy periods , it can even take up to an hour , which you do n't want if you 're stressing about getting back to your flight ! Assuming your bags are checked through to your final destination , all you need to worry about then is yourself , carry-on and passport/visa situation . For your carry-on and self , remember that you 'll still need to go out through passport control , and get back in through customs , security and passport control . This is common enough for a few hours , I 've done it in several airports where I had a longish layover - I wanted to check out the city . Then your passport/visa - as long as you 're just visiting ( as you suggest ) then <URL> . So it should be a case of zipping through passport control , meeting your friend , and have some time to enjoy the airport , making sure to allow yourself enough time to get back through to your plane . Enjoy !
From my station , a Super Off-Peak Day return is # 17.80 . Including a Travelcard makes it # 23.30 ( an increase of # 5.50 , to save you working that out ) . A one-day price-cap on Oyster is # 6.40 for Zone 1 and more for other zones . If you are actually travelling into London and out to Zone 6 on your paper train ticket , then the daily cap on Oyster for that usage is # 11.70 . <URL> Contactless payments also appear to have the daily cap . It 's on a per-card basis , though , so you need to make sure that you always use the same one . Using contactless cards means you do n't have to pay to get an Oyster card . But using contactless does also mean that you do n't get the benefit of a National Rail railcard , which can be loaded on to Oyster to reduce off-peak fares ( as well as reduce rail fares ) . To get an Oyster card , you need to pay a deposit . This is one-off and returnable , so may not be worth including in the calculations . It 's not easy to find <URL> ; it 's # 5 . You 'll also need to top it up with some money . None of it expires , though , and you get its current holding back with the deposit when you return the card . It 's possible that even with the built-in Travelcard you 're actually paying too much . My rail company adds # 5.50 , but two bus journeys only come to # 3 on Oyster . The bottom line : Whether you should use Oyster depends on how much of an increase there is between an ordinary bog-standard return and one with a built-in Travelcard on top , and whether that 's cheaper than the capped Oyster fares for the journeys you 're making .
Dirty-flow 's answer is not really wrong , however , I want to substantiate it a little bit . To quote from <URL> : Gut zu wissen : Eine Trunkenheitsfahrt ( § 316 StGB ) kann nicht nur mit Kraftfahrzeugen , sondern grundsätzlich auch mit dem Fahrrad begangen werden ! Eine Trunkenheitsfahrt liegt immer dann vor , wenn das Fahrrad nicht mehr sicher geführt werden kann . Eine feste Promillegrenze gibt es hier nicht . Ist der Fahrradfahrer verkehrsauffällig geworden , kann die für Kraftfahrzeuge geltende Grenze von 0,5 Promille ab der eine Ordnungswidrigkeit vorliegt auch für Radfahrer herangezogen werden , hat der sogar einen Unfall verursacht , so ist auch hier - wie bei Kraftfahrzeugen - die 0,3-Promillegrenze ausschlaggebend . Als absolute Fahruntüchtigkeitsgrenze für Radfahrer hat der Bundesgerichtshof 1,7 Promille festgesetzt ( bei Kraftfahrzeugen : 1,1 Promille ) . Einzelne Gerichte haben aber auch schon 1,5 Promille für die absolute Fahruntüchtigkeit ausreichen lassen . Werden durch die Unfähigkeit , das Rad sicher zu führen , Leib oder Leben eines anderen Menschen oder fremde Sachen von einigem Wert gefährdet , droht gar die Verurteilung wegen Gefährdung des Straßenverkehrs , § 315c StGB . The translation is more or less ( just the important parts ) : Driving under the influence of alcohol is generally forbidden , if your not able anymore to participate safely in traffic . There is no concrete alcohol limit for that . If it is clearly obvious that a biker should n't participate in traffic , the limit of 0.5 can also be used for bikers . If the biker has caused an accident , it is even possible to use a limit of 0.3 . At 1.7 and above , it is illegal in every case . Some courts have also used a 1.5 threshold .
Generally , Austrian trains are quite punctual and on time . However , two minutes to change a train is really tight , and 4 minutes is n't really better . The train station in Schwarzach-St . Veit is quite small and this will enhance your chance that you will catch the train . On the other hand , the train station in Salzburg is quite big , so if you 're unlucky , there is a chance that you have to cross the whole train station to reach the appropriate track . When you check the connections at oebb.at , you can see , that this connection is proposed by ÖBB . This means , it is a guaranteed connection . And even , if you will miss your connection , there are plenty of other connections , and you would n't have to wait too long . So if I were in your situation , I would take this connection . But I would make sure to tell the train conductor that you have to catch the train in St.Veit . If your train is not really late , it might be possible that he can make sure that your connecting train waits for you . The same applies for your leg from St.Veit to Salzburg . ( Btw : It is not too bad to spend a night at the station in St. Veit as I experienced myself on my trip to Hungary some years ago :) )
It is completely okay . I do similar things all the time , although the two passports I hold are both visa-free in most of the places I visit . The Greek official will not care whether you have a stamp from Turkey in your passport . She or he will be concerned only with stamps from Greece and other countries in the Schengen area , to determine whether you have ever overstayed your visa . Assuming you have not , there will be no problem . Of course , if the Greek official does ask about your travel to Turkey , or whether you have Iranian nationality , you should tell them that you are an Iranian national , and if it seems they want documentation of that , show your passport . In general , you should volunteer as little information as you need to , but always give any information that they ask for . I would add that I once entered Turkey with some Bosnian/Canadian dual nationals who did not have their Bosnian passports . Turkey is ( or was then ) one of the few places that Bosnians can go without a visa . I was traveling on a US passport , and my visa fee was something like USD 15 or 20 . The Canadians , entering on their Canadian passport , had to pay a fee of $ 60 , if I recall correctly . I think the disparate fee amounts are based on the fees that Turks have to pay for visits to the country in question . My friends regretted that they had not brought their Bosnian passports ; you 'll save a decent amount by remembering your Iranian one .
Here is a list of cities that i think are worth at least one day and where you can go in less than 2 h of train from Paris . I list the time by car because you can use car-sharing with <URL> or <URL> Brussels , its beers , fries , chocolate ( train 1 h 20 , car 3 h ) ( Belgium ) Chartres , its cathedral ( train 1 h , car 1 h ) Dijon , its mustard , champagne ( train 1 h 40 , car 3 h ) Lille , its flemish architecture , cheese , beers , fries ( train 1 h , car 2 h ) Metz ( train 1 h 20 , car 3 h ) Orléans ( train 1 h 10 , car 1 h 30 ) Reims , its cathedral ( train 40 min , car 1 h 30 ) Rouen , its cathedral ( train 1 h 10 , car 1 h 30 ) Troyes ( train 1 h 30 , car 1 h 50 ) My list is totally subjective , do n't hesitate to get information on these cities to make your choice . ( Chamonix is too far away to do in one day . )
If were a citizen of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , with a passport issued by that country , you would need a <URL> . If you are a citizen of Italy , with a passport issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands , again , you would need a visa . If you are an Italian citizen , with a passport issued by the government of Italy , then you are exempt , as you yourself indicate .
IAD is indeed a dreadful airport . A new train system has very slightly improved matters . From the exit past customs to the furthest gate at remote terminals can take 20 minutes easily . You will miss your connection if ( a ) your incoming flight is late , ( b ) the Border entry officer hassles you , ( c ) your luggage , which I believe you will have to re-check , is slow . For international flights , the luggage at least is not usually a problem . However , you will make your flight with a reasonable quantum of luck . Although the computer should know , tell the customer service personnel that you are transferring : they may hold the Buffalo flight a few minutes . Now , yes , if you are on a continuous ticket , Lufthansa will be responsible for rebooking you . Unfortunately , I only see one non-stop a day IAD-BUF , so you will end up on some circuitous route . Check the schedule for your flight day to know what options to ask them to rebook on .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
You do not need two separate transit visas . When you apply for your transit visa , provide your entire itinerary , noting that you hope to transit twice through Toronto . If the visa is approved , they will give you at least a dual-entry transit visa . Applying for a tourist visa for the time you 're in Japan would only confuse matters . Since you wo n't be in Canada for that time , it would not be right to ask for a Canadian visa , and your application would likely be refused . As to the US leg not requiring a visa , there 's no such exemption . US permanent residents are exempt from the Canadian visa requirement , but since you hold a US visa you must not be a US permanent resident . Some European countries have an exemption for airport transit visas when the traveler holds a valid US visa , but Canada does not have a similar policy .
end question
start question
What are the best places to eat and have fun in Aruba ?
Right , I 've not been there , but I 'll try and say what I would do , as your food methodology seems to echo mine :) The <URL> would be my first stop if you 've not tried Ostrich meat . Dried , sliced , or in a burger , it 's a delicious meat . Snorkelling sounds pretty great there , and for once you 're not left out with wrecks that only scuba divers can get to ( I ca n't scuba dive , so I 'm jealous ) . There are many snorkel tours , and the one that sounds interesting to me is the Antillla Shipwreck . It is the remains of a scuttled 400-foot German cargo ship that was anchored off of Aruba during WW2 . It was thought that this ship was supplying German U-Boats in the Caribbean and after Holland was invaded in 1940 , the captain was given notice to surrender the ship . Instead of surrendering the ship to the Dutch Marines the captain sunk the ship by blowing up the boilers . I 'd also check out the Arikok National Park - The park consists of lava formations , a quartz diorite formation and a limestone formation extending inward from the coastline . If you enjoy spelunking , there 's the Guadirkiri Caves to check out as well ! Boca Catalina beach is near the aforementioned wreck , has more snorkelling options and great white sandy beaches . Most chains are there ( Subway , BK , Pizza Hut and the rest ) but I 'd be trying to hunt out the local foods - the most unusual sounding being Iguana soup ! Yum ! And if you drink , you 're in Aruba , please do n't forget to try some Jamaican rum !
Shamelessly repeating what has already been said in the comments , I would also suggest Dachau . Another option could be Nürnberg and the <URL> . Both places are a bit far but probably doable in a day ( barely ) . If you want something strictly military , you could try to visit some part of the " ligne Maginot " in France like the <URL> . It 's not too far from Zurich but you will definitely need a car for that . Note that many important events or devastating battles did not leave any landmarks or traces you could see today . The main monuments in Dresden or Darmstadt have been rebuilt in the old style , some other cities like Hannover have been completely reshaped after the destruction but there is nothing in particular that evokes WWII . Switzerland itself did not actively participate in WWII but it did mobilize and still has impressive fortifications that were operational at the time ( most of them built earlier ) .
Refusing to eat totally is indeed very rude . In fact , it might be taken as an insult if you were the main guest . However , you can always ask for a plate and a spoon , fill the plate and eat the way you are used to . This will totally save the situation and will be understood positively since people know how foreigners eat , but not eating at all is something you should avoid . By the way , asking for a spoon or fork is totally normal even if you were n't a foreigner .
Your best bet is to travel on Thanksgiving Day ( Thursday ) -- the airports wo n't be too crowded then , and fares are usually substantially cheaper . Tuesday might also be a cheap day , but try to avoid Wednesday at all costs -- it is one of the busiest travel days of the year in the US , if not the most . Since most people are traveling home to be with their families , good hotel deals should be much easier to find in Las Vegas than LA or SF . In most US cities , things will be pretty dead on Thanksgiving Day . Most stores and restaurants close early if they open at all , although I know from family traditions that movie theaters are open ( and popular ) after the early Thanksgiving Day feast . Just about everything is open extremely early ( ~ 5 AM in many cases ) the next day for Black Friday , the most popular shopping day of the year . Avoid the stores on that day , unless you 're looking to score some really cheap deals or you 're the kind of person that likes to witness complete chaos firsthand . And if you do somehow manage to arrive by Wednesday evening , that is a great " going-out " night as everyone hits the bars to let off steam before dealing with their families for the next four days .
In Thailand , it depends on where you 'll be going . Anywhere from Bangkok northwards , you wo n't notice anything in relation to Ramadan . There 's a significant muslim presence in the south of Thailand ( the sliver of land that borders Malaysia ) , but I do n't know to what extent Ramadan celebrations there spill over into public life . Malaysia is religiously tolerant , simply because there are so many different communities in that country . So , in the big cities , you might find areas where Ramadan celebrations are hard to avoid , while there will be others where life will go on as usual . Small towns could be markedly different , but I have no info on that , sadly .
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
Getting in to Manhattan and back during peak traffic hours is a lost cause and you 'll have to settle for the airport lounge or something less exotic . JFK is a scant stone 's throw from the Boardwalk on Rockaway Beach however . While it does not have a Tiffany 's or a Times Square , it might do as a bit of ' niche Americana ' . It 's a civilized locale with restaurants and shops ; definitely bring your camera because it 's unique . I reckon you could fit a good two hours there - with tales to tell - given your window . You can Google " Beach 59th Street Playground " to get more info if you 're interested .
Cows are considered holy in Hindu religion , not India as a whole per se . North/East/West India are primarily Hindu-majority regions and thus you 're highly unlikely to find any beef , except perhaps at dodgy places in Muslim-dominated parts of those towns . Dodgy places because in those three parts of India cow slaughter is frowned upon and you do n't find organised slaughterhouses for cows . While Southern India has its own conservative Hindu population which do not eat beef , it also has proportionally higher numbers of Christians and Muslims - historically because Christianity was brought in by sea traders . Beef is not as uncommon in South India and you will certainly find it some restaurant menu ( typically ones that are not under a Hindu owner 's management ) . This is generally in upscale restaurants or hotels bars with a significant foreign visitor clientèle . You 'll never find beef products in chain restaurants such as McDonald 's , Pizza Hut , Domino 's etc. ( For instance , there 's no Big Mac burger in Indian McDonald 's restaurants ; instead , they have a ' <URL> ' which is about the same size but with chicken patties . ) Chain restaurants across India are primarily owned by a handful of companies based in North India . This was somewhat of <URL> . You might come across signs in restaurants to this day which state ' Beef and beef products not sold here ' . Since the availablity of beef is so restricted , I ca n't think of how you 'd end up eating it in a public place . Nevertheless , it is n't illegal and if you do acquire beef then you can cook it in your own home too .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
Count your Metro Trips The only metric I would use when budgeting public transportation costs in Rome is the number of metro journeys you think you 'll travel per day . The reason is simple : <URL> . In other words , if you exit the metro and still have some time to spare on the ticket , you wo n't be allowed to use it again on another metro trip . The Roma 24-hour ticket costs 4.67 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 24 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 5 or more times per day , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 5 single BIT tickets , since you 'd be saving money . Similarly , the Roma 48-hour ticket costs 8.33 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 48 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 9 or more times in two days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 9 single BIT tickets . Finally , the Roma 72-hour ticket costs 12 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 72 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 12 or more times in three days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 12 single BIT tickets . Frankly , most of the times I just stick with BIT tickets , since I usually only need 2 metro trips per day . Moreover , you 'll probably be walking more than you 'll be taking public transport , once you get to your designed tourist area .
Yelp says <URL> , there appear to be two . Yelp has filters to search for specific areas and opening hours ( see screen dumps below ) .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
This answer assumes your entry clearance was issued under Appendix V of the rules . Your entry clearance was cancelled and you were removed from the UK . The stated reason is that you did not have the funds to pay for the cigarettes you were importing , I figure it was roughly GBP 160 . The Immigration Officer was entitled to assume that you were in a position to be aware that import duty was required when you bring lots of cigarettes in to the UK , and similarly you were in a position to know roughly the amount you needed to pay . And you did not have have the money to hand . This leaves the inevitable conclusion that you did not intend to pay and instead sell them inside the UK on the black market , which would be illegal . And so you were removed . While you can not be sure , it 's likely they got you on <URL> , sub paragraph ( iii ) ... ( iii ) on grounds which would have led to a refusal under paragraphs 320 ( 2 ) , 320 ( 6 ) , 320 ( 18A ) , 320 ( 18B ) or 320 ( 19 ) ( except where this sub-paragraph applies in respect of an entry clearance issued under Appendix Armed Forces it is to be read as if for " paragraphs 320 ( 2 ) , 320 ( 6 ) , 320 ( 18A ) , 320 ( 18B ) or 320 ( 19 ) " it said " paragraph 8 ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( g ) and paragraph 9 ( d ) " ) ... which is hard to read but when all the gobbledygook is resolved , it means you did not disclose in your entry clearance application that you were coming to the UK to do something illegal . Would it be difficult to get another entry clearance soon ? It 's all down to the opinion of whomever you ask , so leaving opinions aside , you need to instruct a UK solicitor to handle your next application . Without a professional on your case who has a practice area in complex applications , then yes , getting another entry clearance will be very difficult . What are the potential consequences on future UK entrepreneur visa applications , as I meet all their criteria easily ? Well no , perhaps you did meet all their criteria at some point , but moving from peddling cigarettes on the black market to becoming a Tier 1 Entrepreneur is going to be a bit awkward to explain . In other words your credibility has taken a serious hit with respect to anything on the <URL> side of things . If you want to ask more questions about this aspect of your removal , you need to use the <URL> . This site is constrained to Appendix V of the rules . What is the potential impact on future Schengen visas , which I already got more than 15 times ? Assuming we 're back on the visitor/tourist side of things where Schengen is concerned ( as opposed to a skilled migrant ) , you can be sure that the UK told Schengen about the event . So it 's reasonable to expect Schengen to refuse under Reason 9 , see <URL> because as mentioned your credibility has taken a hit and you need a practitioner to determine what and when your next visa application will be . Update In comments the OP revealed that he was actually removed under Paragraph 320 ( 19 ) which is a key reference in my guess of Paragraph 321 ( iii ) above so the above answer remains ' as is ' . The Paragraph 320 ( 19 ) says ... ( 19 ) The immigration officer deems the exclusion of the person from the United Kingdom to be conducive to the public good . For example , because the person 's conduct ( including convictions which do not fall within paragraph 320 ( 2 ) ) , character , associations , or other reasons , make it undesirable to grant them leave to enter . What this tells us is that during the landing interview and subsequent detention followed by the removal , you did something that got them angry . Your narrative does n't include that part of the episode , but we can assume that there were one or more displays of indecorous behaviour which were interpreted as disruptive or insulting . So as the Americans say , they " upped the ante " . During my training with the IAS , I worked with detainees at Heathrow and Gatwick and can attest that detention is a very stressful event . It disrupts one 's plans in an unexpected way , and the anxiety caused by having your phone confiscated can be horrific . And worse , the detention room at any given point in the day will have a variety of muttering whackos , incoherent screwballs , drunkards and the like that can invade one 's sense of personal safety . They monitor and keep it safe , but for a novice , it can be intimidating . For some people , this will result in inappropriate behaviour . However , it 's important to remain calm and compliant or matters can become dramatically worse , like in this case . Follow up questions from the comments ... is there any ban period for sometime under paragraph 320 ( 19 ) No , there are no provisions in Paragraphs 320 or 321 to issue a ban from portside ( except in felony type situations like forgery ) . The rules are clear that bans are issued at the application stage . So you do not have a ban , presumably good news for you . also it would be highly unlikely that all my future uk application might refuse straightaway As I pointed out , ba
To have an idea of the prices you can go to the <URL> ! And when I read the menu web page , it tells the " chef 's recommended course " is worth 30,000 yen , which is around 300 euros .
Restaurants and tourist attractions generally stay open on public holidays , because there 's extra trade . As far as restaurants go , Barcelona has plenty of restaurants , so even if a few close you should n't have trouble . The thing you do need to be prepared for is that supermarkets will be shut , so if you run out of bottled water you 'll have to pay through the nose at a bar or a small grocer . For individual tourist attractions , you can check their websites . I expect most of them to have English translations , but if not then the words you need to look for are festivo ( public holiday ) and víspera de festivo ( day before a public holiday - they sometimes have special timetables ) . Similarly for transport . When people talk about the holiday " spilling onto more than one day " , they 're probably talking about the institution of puentes , whereby workers make a " bridge " between the holiday and the nearest weekend . This is n't really relevant to you as a tourist , except insofar as tourist attractions may be slightly busier than usual for weekdays outside peak season .
It 's not advisable , but you can overstay your Cambodian visa at a cost of $ 5 a day for the first 30 days and $ 6 a day after that , payable at Immigration on your way out of the country . If you plan to only stay a few days more than 30 , this is often cheaper than getting a visa extension . However , be warned that you 'll need exact change in US dollars . If you present them with a $ 20 bill for a $ 15 overstay , it 's very likely that you wo n't be given change . The Cambodia government immigration site says that overstayers are also liable to pay the cost of an extended visa , but in practice overstayers are only charged the $ 5 - or $ 6-per-day fee . <URL> <URL> DISCLAIMER - Obviously , there can be further troubles if this gets noted in your passport , so the advice is for you to contact the nearest concerning embassy , consulate or immigration office for the latest up-to-date information . An overstay can harm your chances of getting a future visa for this country , and may do so also for other countries .
There is the <URL> card system , which you can get at the GO station , but not all subway stations currently accept it ( many a tourist would use do ) . All streetcars apparently now do accept it . If you are primarily visiting the downtown core , you 'll probably be taking the subway and streetcars , and less so buses . At subway stations you can usually pay in cash ( and get change ) if you need to , though the fare is higher . Streetcars can accept exact fare change . It 's a a stored-value card - you can charge it with a credit card at the ticket window of a GO station . It is zone system so you must tap it on entry and exit or you could be charged more than you trip should cost ( if you miss the exit tap ) or fined ( if you are riding effectively without a ticket ) . See the FAQ for information on refunds - I only have direct experience charging it for GO bus trips for my son . It seems to say that you could get an immediate refund of less than $ 50 balance , less 4 % service charge , otherwise you might have to wait for months . The TTC also has a day pass for $ 12 , which you could consider . The TTC fare using Presto is 2.90 CAD vs. 3.25 cash . Presto also gives you a ~ 11 % discount on the GO train fares ( probably around $ 10 each way from Burlington to Union Station ) . You can also buy TTC tokens at 3 tokens for $ 8.70 ( 2.90 per trip if you use them all ) . They 're really light and small - like an aluminum dime , take care they do n't get lost . Personally , for a day or two , I would suggest buying a return ticket for cash or credit card at the GO station and picking up some tokens ( credit and debit accepted over $ 10 ) at the subway station - and keeping it simple . ( Or use Presto and load it with the GO fare plus $ 12 or so for the day ) . For future reference , TTC tokens are due to be eliminated in favor of Presto , but that will not happen until mid-2017 . Edit : With regard to borrowing your host 's Presto card , yes it is explicitly allowed and would be an excellent solution : Can more than one person use the same PRESTO card to travel at different times ? Yes , PRESTO cards are transferable . If you are using a card that has a concession fare set , you must also be eligible for any discounted fares set on the card ( i.e. child , student , senior ) . A student , senior or child may use an adult 's PRESTO card to travel at full adult fare . However , an adult may not use a student 's , child 's or senior 's PRESTO card to travel . Also , there is no problem at all using your credit card to refill your host 's Presto .
Illegal ? I doubt it , in most places . It 's purely a courtesy thing , I suspect . Maybe some jurisdictions have rules or regulations , but I 'd be astonished to see them enforced . You 're more likely to get shouted at by a taxi marshal or the taxi driver for the taxi you join , as they do n't like to see their fellow taxi drivers disadvantaged . They might well refuse to take you . Do n't forget that in most very busy places ( big airports etc. ) there is often a long ' off-site ' line you are n't seeing , so even though they look like they 've just joined the line , they may well have been waiting hours . You saving them 10 minutes from their wait is n't going to seem like a big deal to them , it 'll just look like you 're doing something odd . Having said all that , in most places ( for example , London ) taxis are n't strictly allowed to refuse a ride , as long as you fulfill all the other standard criteria ( e.g. requesting to travel within their " jurisdiction " ) . If they get disagreeable about it , insist . It might be polite to give a generous tip for a short distance , though .
I would recommend <URL> . You can get group rates for airfare and hotels . We use this website to get deals on hotels for our gymnastics team . Good luck .
I fly either that route ( as part of a GRU-SCL-AKL-MEL ) or the GRU-SCL-SYD-MEL route about 8 + times a year , though typically in business . There are really only two airlines to get you from SAO to AKL , and they 're Qantas and LAN , who each code-share the other 's flights . LAN 's fares are usually cheaper tha Qantas , even for exactly the same flight ( ie a LAN-marketed-fare on a Qantas-operated flight ) . The service and amenities in business at least are almost identical on both the LAN and Qantas flights out of Santiago ( SCL ) . In economy I suspect Qantas will be better , as I do n't think LAN have seat-back entertainment in economy . Because of the lack of competition on these routes , you will not find great variance between days of the week , especially if booking from further out . As the date gets closer , the weekends and Monday and Friday tend to book up , leaving only the higher fare classes aqvailable , so 1-4 weeks out you may see perhaps as much as a 20-30 % difference in fare between a mid-week flight and the other days . But this depends entirely on what has filled up . I recommend you book a LAN-marketed flight on Qantas metal , via an OTA such as Expedia . This is likely to be the best value .
end question
start question
Do infant seats in the EU have a " suitable for aircraft " label on them ?
According to the European Aviation Safety Agency , a <URL> on child car seats for flights states the following : Regarding the use of a car seat as an acceptable child restraint device , this is regulated under the Regulation on Air Operations , through Annex IV ( Part CAT ) , specifically CAT.IDE.A .205 . The basis for the provision on child restraint devices is JAR-OPS 1 guidance material . To conclude , the proposed examples for acceptable child restraint devices include car seats , and item 2 of AMC1 CAT.IDE.A .205 lists the standards with which the CRD should comply . This includes the UN standard ECE R 44 , -03 or later series - this is commonly indicated on the car seat 's label . Information regarding this standard is available from a car seat manufacturer <URL> . Warning : from April 2008 , all child car seats that were manufactured before 1995 and approved to the ECE R44/01 and 44/02 standard are no longer legal and must not be used or sold . Only seats displaying the European Standard orange label , indicating approval to the Standard to ECE R44/03 , ECE R 44/04 or i-Size ( UN R129 ) may be legally used . It appears that the current standard version is R44/04 and should look like this : Source : maxi-cosi . com ( external link from above site ) Note that the FAQ also states that you must check with each individual airline : In the first instance , passengers wishing to use their car seat as a child restraint device ( CRD ) on board an aircraft should contact the airline or travel agency through which the ticket has been booked , in order to obtain information on which CRDs are acceptable and also to ensure that the car seat can be installed properly on the seat of the particular aircraft with which they will fly . For example , BA <URL> : If you have paid for a separate seat for your infant , or your child is under 3 years , you can bring your own forward facing car seat to secure into the aircraft seat . The car seat : can only be used for infants over six months old and children up to three years old must be designed to be secured by means of a normal aircraft single lap strap and face the same direction as the passenger seat on which it is positioned must have a 5-point restraining harness must not exceed the dimensions of the aircraft seat , and should fit into an area of 45cm x 45cm ( 17.5 ins x 17.5 ins ) must be strapped in place ensuring that the adult lap strap buckle does not lie directly over any part of the frame or under the structure of the car type seat after tightening
Lightweight synthetic hiking trousers are designed to allow a comfortable range of motion and to wick away sweat , while still offering some protection against the sun and minor scratches . Even if not hiking in the back country , they have features that make them excellent travel garments , such as multiple deep mesh pockets where you can store your map , camera , and so on . Unlike street clothes , these will usually provide a means to seal them such as Velcro or a zipper , providing additional protection against pickpockets as well as ordinary loss . thin synthetic fabric construction , for some water resistance and comfortable stretching . Many come with treatments for additional protection against UV radiation . They can be impregnated with <URL> to repel insects . Perhaps more importantly , they can be washed with bar soap in a hostel sink , and in warm weather will dry in just a few minutes . Cotton laundry is much bulkier and in humid conditions may still be damp after drying overnight . built-in belt or straps , negating the need to carry a belt Some have side zippers to allow for faster changing , and ankle zippers for easier shoe/sock changing . Some have reflective stripes which are invisible in daylight but shine brightly in headlights for better visibility after dark . Most are polyester or nylon twill , and around where I live in the U.S. , they sell for around the same price as a pair of jeans ( $ 50 ) , though you can find them on closeout for far less from the major outdoors retailers . There are a variety of styles and colors , as you can see from these links to several major US retailers : <URL> <URL> <URL> Jeans , it must be said , are some of the worst clothes for extended physical activity . Denim absorbs moisture readily , becoming heavy and clammy . They hold moisture against the skin leading to chafing and blisters , as you noted . They are slow to dry , and as every Boy Scout knows , " cotton kills " in the wilderness in anything except the daytime desert . When I will be doing anything more than walking from a hotel room to a convention center on a trip , the only cotton clothes I bring are some T-shirts . Everything else -- socks , underwear , jackets , etc. -- is at least a synthetic blend , particularly when the weather will be warm or cool . Shorts can work for some people in some situations , but you expose yourself to sun and to insects , and some people chafe their inner thighs after extended walking in shorts . Moreover , they are not culturally appropriate in much of the world ; you could be denied admission to royal facilities and religious sites , at the least .
I take it you have seen the pictures of <URL> ( 4,158 m / 13,642 ft ) and <URL> ( 3,238 m / 10,623 ft ) on Wikipedia ? Mountains in Switzerland will not be closed , but most will require specialized gear ( and matching experience ) in winter . for Titlis ( the lower of the two peaks ) , the temperatures in February are : I 'm not sure about your definition of Chilly ; my definition would be ' Freezing cold '
There is no common legal standard and in most countries also no common obligation to have them with you - provided that you do not drive on a road that explicitly requires them . Those however are normally only mountain passes , not highways . There is generally a rule that you are only allowed to drive with chains on 100 % snow-covered roads so you do not damage the road . So as long as you stay off those , you are prohibited from using chains , rather than forced to use them . Here is a <URL> and <URL> ( sorry , in German ) , but the gist of it is : If you drive through Bulgaria between 1 November and 31 March , you will have to carry them with you . Regarding the other countries : If you drive on ice/snow covered roads , Austria forces you to use chains . All the other countries you 'll drive through do allow them on ice-covered roads and mandate them where signs so indicate . Otherwise they are allowed , mostly subject to speed limits , and in Germany you then need to cover all four wheels unless you have a 4WD . Hungary <URL> you to carry snow chains on entry to the country if the conditions are known to be bad . This is however not a permanent requirement but rather changes according to road conditions . Please note that for trucks the rules are different - there is often an obligation at least to have them with you - but I assume you drive a normal car .
Before you travel - book early Make sure to book early enough so that you can get seats with access to a bassinet ( travel cots ) . You need to call the airline directly to reserve such seats . Note that a travel cot/bassinet does not count as a seat for the baby . You 'll still have to hold the kid during take-off and landing . If you do not manage to get a bassinet , bring a baby carrier onto the plane so that you can strap the baby onto you , so that you do n't have to hold him/her the entire time . If you do want to shell out for an seat for the baby , check ahead of time whether your car seat will fit ( hint : in some low-cost carriers , it may not , since the seats are too narrow ) . Before you travel - be aware of the rules and regulations You are usually allowed to take e.g. breast milk with you through security check ( <URL> - while security procedures are similar in many places , check you local regulations as well ) . You can use that to take non-breastmilk liquid for babies as well . You can usually check-in a car seat at no additional cost ( even though you have not paid for a seat for the child ) . Pack it in a sturdy plastic bag , not all airlines will provide you with one . You can usually bring a foldable ( but not detachable ) stroller directly to the gate , which helps you to limit your child 's mobility , if needed . The stroller will have to be gate-checked , which tends to be a bit less of a damage-risk . Check with the airline , though . At the airport You need to check bags anyway ( diapers , lots of baby clothes ... ) ; limit the amount of carry-on luggage so that you have your hands free for the kid ( and the stroller , and the toys the kid just threw away as you hurry towards the gate ) . The airport may have fast-track queues for families with small children , as well as special waiting areas . Use them ! Although you are allowed to pre-board , you may want to choose to board at the very end only , especially if the child is already mobile and does n't like to be confined to its seat while waiting for other passengers to find their seat . Of course , if you 're worried about having enough space for your cabin luggage , enjoy pre-boarding :) During the flight Relax . Your child will most likely cry , and some people may be offended by that , but hey , tough luck for them . Feeling stressed out to have to calm the child , or yelling at him/her to shut up will only make matters worse . Note that you need to hold the child facing you during take-off and landing ( unless the child is in its own seat ) , so that can be a good time for ( breast - ) feeding the child , since the swallowing helps with ear pressure ( you can , but do n't have to be , lucky in that your kid does not suffer much from pressure change ) . Make sure there is a vomit bag in your seat pocket , and that you can grab it reasonably quickly . In my personal experience , the most critical period for vomiting is either during or right after landing . Remember there are lots of people who think babies are cute , and would love to hold the little bundle of joy , while you go to the bathroom , or relax for a moment . Let them help you .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
When you have a card from another EU-country , it 's possible that your bank has a partnership with one or more German banks and those will have the lowest fees . You should ask your bank . At the airports and train stations there are some ATMs that have very high fee - avoid those . Use only ATMs that belong to banks ( Postbank , Deutsche Bank , Sparkasse , Citi Bank etc. . ) . I think that Sparkasse and Volksbank do n't have low fees , but I 'm not 100 % sure . Before every withdrawal , the ATM will show you the fee and you can confirm or cancel .
No , you ca n't . They 're different types of adapters . What I do when I need confirmation is to check this website : <URL> It has an EXHAUSTIVE list of each and every type , the voltage and the countries that use them . It 's been handy for some of the stranger countries I 've been to and has n't failed yet . Myself , I have a multi-adapter . The only country it does n't seem to handle is South Africa , which has 3 giant prongs - bigger than the UK ones !
Generally speaking depending on the age of Children you are allowed to bring child safety seats on flights . <URL> . So if you 're allowed to carry and use the child seat on the flight just bring your own . Car Rental companies will provide a child seat ( s ) for you irrespective of whether it 's someone large as Hertz or someone smaller . EDIT Give kids ages the rules in the US which are in most cases similar to the EU you will need to have a <URL> , so if your seats are similar you more then likely be fine . As far as ISOFIX is concerned I am yet to encounter a seat that was ISOFIX only , so you should not have an issue using it in any car . One more note . We personally always opted for our own seat because one time that we had to rent our son could n't get comfortable in the seat for a somewhat prolonged journey .
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
Short answer - you 're good ! Longer answer ... Germany normally requires a visa for Indian nationals , even if only in transit - however there are a number of exceptions that allow air-side transit without visa ( TWOV ) . One of those exceptions is if you have a Canadian visa , and you are in transit either on the way to Canada , or on the way to your home country ( regardless of where you are traveling from ) . Clearly your concern here is that your Canadian visa will be expired by the time you arrive in Frankfurt , however this is NOT a problem ! As long as your visa was valid when you commenced your return trip , then you will be allowed transit . So your expired Canadian visa IS sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Another of the exceptions is the same as above , but for a US visa . As you have a valid US visa , you are also covered there . So your unexpired US visa IS also sufficient for you to transit Frankfurt . Note that in both cases you will need to remain airside , and will need to be scheduled to depart FRA within 24 hours of arrival .
Here is a <URL> that discusses the requirements state by state . North Carolina will allow the use of an out of state learner 's permit in most cases , South Carolina will not . One issue is that different states have different restrictions . For instance , some states , including Virginia , will allow learners ' permits for age 15 ; most states require age 16 , and those states ( e.g. North Carolina ) wo n't honor a 15 year old 's learners permit if that 's the case for your son ; he has to be 16 . To one of the comments above , New York State will honor learner 's permits only for people over the age of 18 . People aged 16-17 from other states are not allowed to drive in certain parts of New York state even with a license , and in other parts of the state only with severe restrictions . Also , states have different minimum age requirements for the ( licensed ) driver in the passenger 's seat , typically 20 or 21 . Finally , different states have rules/restrictions on class of cars , vehicles etc. . States have " rules " for learner 's permits , but they are not " reciprocal . "
The <URL> states ( under " Online check-in " - > " Conditions " ) : Non EU/EEA passengers must proceed to the Wizz Air check-in desk for document check before proceeding through security to departure . Failure to do so may result in travel being denied . No exception is mentioned for intra-Schengen flights .
<URL> . If the delay was not caused by " extraordinary circumstances " , you may be entitled to some monetary compensation .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
" Sir/Ma ' am , no thank you . " or " Sir/Ma ' am , I am not interested . " Followed by ( if needed ) " Sir/Ma ' am , I am sorry , but I specifically requested and was given this seat . I am not willing to change to another seat for any reason . Perhaps someone else might wish to help you . "
The official Source of Truth ( tm ) : <URL> In particular : <URL> Your registered partner and extended family - siblings , cousins , aunts , uncles , and so on -- can ask the authorities in an EU country to officially recognise them as family members of an EU national . If they obtain recognition , they wo n't need a visa to enter that country -- they will receive the same treatment as your spouse , parents and children . EU countries do not have to recognise registered partners and extended family as your family members but they do at least have to consider the request . To avoid problems , contact the consulate or embassy of the country to which you are travelling well in advance to find out which documents your non-EU family member will be asked to present at the border . This will help to avoid unpleasant situations such as non-EU family members being refused entry because they do not have the required documents . Be aware that some countries may fail to apply EU law correctly and your non-EU family members may be denied some of their rights , as described here . In other words , if your wife is recognized as the spouse of an EU citizen and you are resident in the EU , she can indeed enter without a visa . If you are not resident in the EU , she will require a EU visa ( Schengen visa if you 're a Schengen country citizen ) , but this ( by law ) must be free and granted essentially automatically , all you need to prove is that you are married . But you 'd be well advised to sort this out in advance , and for a short tourist stay of less than 60 days , I do n't really see much advantage over <URL> .
Yes you will have to pay duty , as it is a new item that was purchased overseas . If you were at home , lost it and bought a new replacement , you will have paid Australian duty on that item , as the importer paid duty when it originally came from the factory ( and of course included the cost of that duty in the selling price you paid ) . In this case , if you buy it overseas Australia still wants its import duty . They do n't really care why you bought it again , only that duty is paid on products imported into the country . Your real question at this point ( and one likely only the insurance agency can answer ) is will your travel insurance provider pay both the replacement amount AND the subsequent duty you have to pay upon returning home , since they are both part of the " replacing the item " cost
Disclaimer : I have n't stayed in either of those hotels . However I slept in love hotels , so the answer to your question " Are these kinds of hotels acceptable for regular tourists , who just need a place to sleep " , is Yes . There are a few things , however , to keep in mind : With love hotels , you are much more likely to get a windowless room . If this is a concern , call the hotel . Do not assume that the booking site will list your room as " windowless " ; sometime they do not . Myself I actually prefer those rooms as they tend to be much quieter , especially next to airport where most sound comes through the windows . Typical love hotel visitors do not come there to have an overnight sleep . Thus you might hear certain noise . Good hotels however do separate sleeping guest from the hourly guests ( usually by floor or put them in a different section ) . Make sure you tell the hotel at checking that you 're staying overnight and want to have a good sleep . Still bringing earplugs is not a bad idea . Some love hotels , notably in Japan , offer " rest " rates ( overnight sleep ) which is typically 10pm-8am . Once you get in , you have to stay until the morning - as soon as you leave , your stay ends . So if you leave , for example , to have a late dinner , your stay is finished . However hotels advertised at booking.com type websites typically do NOT do that and act more like a normal hotel ; this is more of a concern if you just walk in . Some love hotels might not check in a single guest , two people of the same sex , or more than two people . So if you 're traveling not as a ( different sex ) couple , you might check it with a hotel . Some love hotels only accept cash , even if they have the " Visa " sign . A typical excuse is " credit card machine not working " . So if you want to pay with a credit card , book on a site like Agoda or orbitz , which allow you to prepay for your stay . Do n't expect other hotel amenities like laundry or luggage storage . Mattresses there tend to be plastic-wrapped ( for obvious reasons ) , so it feels a bit differently . Also keep in mind that in those hotels you might get a better price by walking in , instead of booking in advance ( booking sites charge at least 10 % " service fee " ) . In some countries even the posted price could be negotiable . Just call/email the hotel before booking on the booking site and ask if they can give you a better price . Expect to pay cash in this case . Regarding issues , I have never had any in those hotels ; the rooms were same or cleaner comparing to " regular " hotels in a similar price range , and the soundproofing was better . There was never soliciting of any kind , and nobody knocks on your door/rings a phone .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
end question
start question
Long layover in London , time to visit Olympics ?
There are actually a number of different questions there , and while I ca n't tackle all of them I can take a stab at a few ... In terms of getting into London , it depends which bit you want to go to . For South West London , which does contain a few of the Olympic venues , as well as a number of parks , your best bet is a local bus . The roads between Heathrow and London are pretty busy if you 're not allowed to use the Olympic lanes , but for getting to the parks / gardens / etc in SW London that should n't be an issue . If you want to get into the centre of London , you can either head into Paddington by train ( Heathrow Express is quick but expensive , Heathrow Connect is cheaper but slower ) , or take the Piccadilly Line ( Underground/Tube ) to a variety of places . The Piccadilly line is valid with a travel card , while the train needs a supplement ( Heathrow owns the spur of railway line so has it 's own fares ) . The tube takes a little longer , but is more frequent , and may well be better for you . Get a one day travel card ( either paper , or on an Oyster card , pros and cons for a single day ever visitor but that 's a different question ! ) , then hop onto the tube and visit wherever you want . Heathrow being busy wise - the busy bit is likely to be immigration , but the day before the opening ceremony I think that everyone who could work will be , so there hopefully wo n't be too long queues . If you stay airside in transit , you wo n't have to clear immigration , just a security check . However , with 10 hours I do n't think that 's an issue . Coming back , you say you 're on BA , so at Terminal 5 ( T5 ) you need to clear Conformance no later than 35 minutes minutes before your flight . Conformance is the passport/boarding card check before security , which may have a small queue ( depends ) . Most people will be coming into Heathrow that day , not going out , so I would n't expect this to be a big issue , but make sure you 're back from London in plenty of time ! Time the tube going in , then add 50 % more just to be sure , and aim to be back at T5 no less than an hour before and you ought to be fine . With a 10 hours layover , I do n't see why you could n't have a good 6 hours in the centre of London , or 7 in SW London . In terms of what you 'll be able to see , be that at the main stadium , the tail end of the Olympic Torch Relay , or one of the many other venues around London , I 'll leave someone else to answer !
Getting to and from Heathrow By train The <URL> and <URL> services will operate as usual . Neither do usually accept Oyster cards , but it might be worth checking on the day . They both terminate at Paddington station ; the Connect stops at several <URL> . Travellers could get the Connect to Hayes and Harlington , then leave the train and touch in with their Oyster . All trains ( including the Connect ) accept those form that station , it seems ( but you will have to leave the train to touch in ) . By bus or coach <URL> offers connections to Central London ( e.g. Victoria station ) , and you can take <URL> ( TfL ) buses ( make sure to untick the Tube option on the Journey Planer options page ) . They will take a long time , and you will have to change a few times ( Hounslow , White City or Hammersmith , most likely ) , but they will get you there . Plus they take the Oyster card , and there are <URL> ( see legend/map keys ) . See <URL> for travel to other destinations . ( Cf. <URL> . ) Other means of transport You can get a black cab ( <URL> , especially from/to LHR ) or a taxi ( usually cheaper , but ask ) , or even <URL> . <URL> has more information . ( Update : <URL> , taxis in London are synonymous to black cabs , while minicabs are " private hire vehicles " - which I - but possibly nobody else here - call " taxi " , probably because that 's the word I 'd use in German or French . Black cabs can be hailed ( or flagged down ) , the drivers are very knowledgeable and they are generally more regulated . Hence the higher price . <URL> . So , to summarise , a black cab is a taxi , and a minicab is n't , but will still get you home or to the airport . But you could always get an <URL> car if unsure , I suppose . ) Transport around the airport Transport within the <URL> is - you guessed it - free on certain local buses and trains ( but not the tube ) . Elsewhere <URL> connects London to Heathrow , Luton , Stansted and Gatwick . This is your best bet for LHR-Shepherd 's Bush , by the way . Remember , National Rail in <URL> , TfL Overground , DLR , Tramlink , Buses ( <URL> ) , Riverboats and the Airline ( cable car ) should all operate and should accept Oyster cards ( although not all accept weekly Travelcards , I think ) , so once you 're in London , <URL> outside of the rush hour should n't be a problem . To the contrary , you 'll actually be able to see the city much better that way . :) If you have a UK address , you could also join a <URL> ( see the page 's right-hand column ) , but do n't expect to find a car during a tube strike ... ;-) Ride by bike ( for the adventurous and daring ) TfL <URL> ( previously sponsored by Barclays , and locally known as Boris Bikes , after the current Mayor under whom they were introduced ) are available throughout travel zone 1 and parts of travel zone 2 , and they should be available during a strike , but I have had mixed feelings about them : They are fun to get through the Royal Parks ( although not all paths are open to cyclists ) and on side roads a bit away from the busy city centre . In the touristy bits of London , though , there are n't many dedicated cycle routes , and you 'll often have to share a lane with buses and taxis . Buses , by their nature , are on a schedule , so they will overtake you , just to pull in right in front of you to stop at the next bus stop . And being chased by a bus makes for a somewhat unpleasant experience . On the roads , people will try to overtake you , especially at traffic lights , no matter if there is enough space or not , and often force you dangerously close to the curb , if you travel on the side of your lane . It 's therefore super important to <URL> , contrary to what you are used to from home . But even then , I was once nearly run over twice in the span of fifteen minutes . That 's why I now consider Boris Bikes the fastest way to your local A&amp;E . They do only take payment cards , but no Oyster . Also remember that people drive on the " wrong " - as opposed to the right - side of the road . And unless your suitcase has four wheels , taking it along might prove a tiny bit difficult . ;-) <URL> <URL> . You can pay using an Oyster card ( which is sold at all tube stations and some news agents ) or by contactless payment card . Bear in mind , though , that your card issuer 's transaction fee might well exceed the price of the actual ticket if you have a foreign card . You can load travelcards or cash on your Oyster , and daily and weekly ( Monday to Friday , I think ) capping is in place . Payment cards have daily and rolling weekly ( 7 days ) capping , I think . And if you have a travel card for any <URL> you get buses free in all of them , if I remember correctly . Oyster cards " cost " a 5 pound deposit , which you can <URL> when invalidating them at a ticket machine ( e.g. at the airport , when you leave ) , along with any unused cash loaded onto the card . Just make sure what remains on it is less than a tenner ; otherwise you 'll have to go to a ticket counter , fill out a form , and provide proof of address and maybe even a local bank account ( do n't know for sure about the last po
There is no written rule about " siesta " time . Usually the siesta starts after lunch and ends one or two hours later . It is a wrong idea to think that most Spanish have a siesta time , it happened some decades ago , but today is not a generalized practice . Anyway , you have to difference between siesta time and business timetables . Probably Spanish timetables are influenced by siesta tradition , but you have to take into account other elements like the high temperatures we have in summer or the big meal we take around 2 o'clock . Given this , you have to worry from 13:30 to 17:30 . These 4 hours are the most problematic , but I do n't know any petrol station closed on this hours ( in fact most petrol stations are open 24 hours a day ) , restaurants usually close at 4pm except in touristic areas where the restaurants adapt their schedules to the tourists they receive . General shops may be closed on this hours but the malls remain open .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
Following my own advice from my answer to <URL> , I looked on the <URL> : A minifleet of four or five buses run by different companies departs at noon for Istanbul ( US$ 40 , 27 hours ) via the border at Sarpi , Hopa , Rize They leave from the second bus terminal : Ortachala bus station ( 753433 ; Gulia 1 ) is something of a backwater , about 2.5 km southeast of the Old Town .
The best strategy is to go as far away as possible from tourist areas to exchange money . Currency Exchange at the airport is generally the worst , followed money changers in tourist areas . Then start to look at money changers in London 's financial district , ie the City . Generally , they will be competing with other money changers and making their money on volume . Also , people in the City will know what the rate should be . You are also very unlikely to be ripped off . The City is also safer if you are carrying large amounts of cash . ( Not applicable to you , but in general it 's good to know ) . The really good deals are via Corporate money changing but you are unlikely to be able to setup an account unless you have a business . Look around at lunch time and see which money changers have a queue . These are the ones to go to . I tend to use www.cityforex.co.uk for this reason . In general , this guide can be used for other countries / cities .
You have four options , although you may need to wait for a couple of them ... <URL> houses permanent and temporary exhibits relating to sport and the Olympic movement . However it 's closed for renovations until the end of next year . <URL> in Hakon 's Hall in Lillehammer , was officially opened by King Harald V and Queen Sonja on November 27 , 1997 . It is the only museum in northern Europe that presents the entire history of the Olympic Games . <URL> used to be just a Sports Museum , but was moved to a new building in 2004 during the Olympic Games year in Athens , and was redesignated as the Olympic Museum . In 2014 , <URL> . Interactive exhibits will gather together London 2012 memories , show how the venues were built , and seek to inspire future generations .
If you do n't have Russian Visa , you wont be able to get out to the city . Moscow have huge traffic jams ;) It 's can take few hours to get into the center , and few hours back . I would n't risk to miss my flight , even though I 'm Russian . However you probably can make it and see Moscow for 1-2 hours , but I do n't think it worth it to spend time/money for visa , and to be in such a hurry :) P.S. : Moscow never sleep .
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
Fortunately one fan <URL> . To summarise , he started by staying at the Marco Polo , a motel where Cobain used to get his heroin nearby , and shoot up in room 226 . 413 Fleet Street South is a noted spot next , as the house Cobain lived in with his father for several years in the late 70s / early 80s . He drives to Aberdeen ( town slogan : " Come as you are " ) ( they claim him instead of Seattle ) , then on to 1210 East First Street ( in the Felony Flats - another abode of Cobain 's while growing up ) . The Aberdeen museum has a statue of Cobain as well . Aberdeen 's must-see Cobain site is a small park , opened in 2011 by the Kurt Cobain Memorial Foundation , called Kurt Cobain Landing . There 's also several other places where he used to live ( address not mentioned ) , including Dale Crover 's porch , at 609 West Second Street . He goes to ' The Central ' but like many bars of the era , they 've changed crowds , styles and music , like ' The Crocodile ' , the ' OK Hotel ' , Beehive Records ( now a pet store ) , and Linda 's Tavern where Cobain was last seen alive . As I finish summarising , I realise that the article is actually a bit of a gold mine , because it finishes by listing all the addresses of the places mentioned above , which should help you a lot in planning and locating some of the old haunts . Good luck !
I give this 50/50 chance at best , especially this time of year . 40 minutes is tight even in the best of circumstances but Newark has lots of traffic , lots of delays and is prone to weather issues ( as is Boston for that matter ) . The United terminals are huge , so it can easily be a 10 minute hike between gates . I never had to go through security while connecting , so I doubt that 'll be an issue . Get the United app installed on your phone : that 's the quickest way of checking what gate your connection is departing and on whether it 's on time or not . You can do this while your still taxiing after landing . If it 's super tight you can sometimes beg the other passengers or the flight attendants to let you get off first . If your stuck in the back of the plane , that 's going to be a problem . I would call United ask for a change , perhaps an earlier flight out of Boston . 40 minutes in a massive airport like EWR seems unreasonable . And do n't check any bags !
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
A good way to search for these stopovers is to use <URL> . Here 's an illustration of a search for stopovers of at least 36 hours ( 2160 minutes ) . First do a simple search to get an idea of prices without stopover charges : <URL> Which produces this result ( I requested prices in USD to make comparison easier ) : <URL> Next add in the / minconnect option which requests a stopover/layover with a minimum connection time in minutes : <URL> Which gives : <URL> You 'll often find the same stopover point , so you might want to eliminate one or several stopover points from your search and you can do that by specifying " ~ XXX " for not airport XXX or " ~ XXX , YYY " for not either of airport XXX or YYY , followed by " * " meaning any number of additional flights , e.g. . <URL> and you might end up with an alternative set of stopovers : <URL> Once you 've found a set of flights that look suitable , you 'll need to check visa requirements and then try to book the flights either on an airline 's website with the multicity option , or call a travel agent .
Yup , with 12 hours it 's very feasible and I would definitely go for it . In order : Yes , there is a " <URL> " outside arrivals , rates $ 2-6 / day depending on bag size . However , why not just check in your bags for your next flight immediately , and only then set off to explore ? The easy public transport option is <URL> , $ 9 return including unlimited public transport in Montreal for the day , travel time 45 minutes plus depending on traffic . If you 're really pinching pennies you can take bus 204 to the nearest Metro station and connect ( $ 3/one-way ) , but this is more hassle than it 's worth . Customs/Immigration time varies wildly , but if it takes over an hour you 're having a really bad day . Flights from Mexico may get some extra attention though . If you already have checked in before you left the airport , an hour should suffice . Otherwise you might want to allow two hours . ( Official recommendation is three hours , but this is a bit silly . )
When you enter one of the three micro-states , the Schengen 90 day clock pauses during your time there . It resumes when you exit the micro-state and reenter the Schengen zone . Also , you can not ' refresh ' your Schengen clock in the micro-states because they have local rules that act to prevent it . In San Marino for example , foreigners staying longer than 30 days must apply for a residence permit and these are not given to visitors . But indeed , each day in a micro-state is a day out of the zone and the 90/180 rule is affected accordingly . Problems will arise when the visitor ultimately leaves the zone and must undergo a Schengen exit inspection . At this point the person may be asked to prove that they are not an overstayer and the border guard will be entitled to see hard evidence in the form of official documentation . There was a case where an individual attempted to show that his mobile phone registered to a tower outside of the zone and this failed obviously : radio waves have no respect for nation borders but also one could mail the SIM card to a friend in a far away land , put in a phone where it registers to the tower and then mail it back . Apparently hotel receipts can be too easily forged to be successful as evidence . What the border guard will want to see is a passport stamp from the local constabulary . But the constabulary is under no obligation to issue one , so success is down to personal impact and articulation skills . Source : Question put directly to <URL> 6 June 2016 , ( <URL> ) . Your questions ... Also , according to the article , Andorra seems to do have immigration borders ... So , for example , if I am a US citizen , will going to Andorra , stop the Schengen visit Per the above , yes if you go to Andorra the Schengen clock is paused . ( meaning there will be an exit stamp on your passport ) ? In the normal case you will have no exit stamp and be unable to provide satisfactory evidence of your time in and out of the zone . As explained you can approach the local constabulary and TRY to get the entry and exit stamps you need .
It depends on what you mean by " all sights " . Iceland has a lot to offer and you could spend a whole summer there without seeing everything . 2-3 weeks is however ample to do a traditional " around the country " drive , traveling along the ring road ( highway 1 ) , hitting many ( albeit not all ) places of interest . Such a trip can be done in one week , so you 'll have ample time for detours during a 2-3 week long trip . Being late April/early May , any mountain road is likely to still be closed and many of the secondary roads may be in rough shape after the winter . This will limit you to sights that are reasonably close to the main highways . At that time of year , you will find the weather will still be quite cold , making camping a less than exciting prospect . Also , some hotels/guesthouses are only operated during the summer , so you should plan ahead a bit on where you are going to be staying .
<URL> <URL> and two galleries on the exterior of them which have great views over the Thames , Westminster and city of London . Stone Gallery ( 52m from the cathedral floor 367 steps ) Golden Gallery ( 85m from the cathedral floor 528 steps ) Access to the Galleries Access to the Whispering Gallery ( 257 steps ) , Stone Gallery ( additional 119 steps ) and Golden Gallery ( additional 152 steps from Stone ) is via stair only . We recommend that those with pre-existing medical conditions , mobility difficulties or concerns with heights and confined spaces do not attempt this climb . A video fly through of the gallery levels and their views is available on the multimedia guides . I 'd add that at two points I had to crouch / bend to get through narrow low stair cases ( for reference I am 183cm ) . <URL> Whilst not a tall building does offer a free panoramic view of London from the north . If I recall correctly you can see the Gherkin , London eye and BT tower . <URL> Located at the south end of Hampstead Heath parliament hill offers a panoramic view of London from the tall buildings in Canary Wharf and the City and the BT Tower . <URL> More commonly known as the walkie talkie has a garden on the top floors 34-37th ( 160M roof hight ) which is free to visit with a booking ( you need to book more than a week in advance in summer for weekends ) <URL> <URL> on the 68-72nd floors with prices starting at # 25.95 <URL> is a bar on the 31st floor does n't require a reservation . They do have dress code which I can attest is strictly enforced and no under 18 's after 6pm . <URL> Has a <URL> and a <URL> . You usually need to book for the bar , but sometimes they 'll let you in without booking if there 's space . <URL> <URL> often hosts events ( for a small fee ) in the penthouse of <URL> near Piccadilly Circus it is the tallest building in the area and has amazing views of Westminster the London eye , horse guards parade and the backyard of number 10 . <URL> Once a year ( normally in September ) London has an open house where you can get access to many of London 's iconic buildings including the Gherkin ( at least in previous years ) . Key attractions such as the Gherkin are ticketed ( due to demand , all sites are free so if someone is selling the ticket its probably fake . ) so you will need to book in advance . There are many other awesome places that few people know about also on offer , such as old war offices in underground bunkers and unused tube stops . The list changes yearly so this is by no means a sure bet . <URL> If you 're resident in the UK you can take a tour up <URL> by contacting your local MP .
That 's a wonderful time to visit England . I 've visited the area in April-May several years ago and did a similar trip to what you 're describing ( southern England , Wales and spent a week in London itself ) , and it was awesome . Note that this year you should n't be in London in July-September , unless you 're interested in Olympics . That means that people who want to visit England not for Olympics will probably go there earlier than usual , and you 'll have all the crowd you want to avoid right there with you . But do n't let it stop you , England is wonderful any time , especially late spring and early summer .
I think you 'd be pleasantly surprised by the museums - they 're VERY interesting and not at all dry , especially the new Darwin Center at the Natural History Museum . People tend to be quite polarised about the London Eye - but the ability to go up high above central London in a glass ball is fun for all . Richmond Park ( if walking is ok ) is a great trip just outside of London . Take the train to Richmond ( 20 min on the fast train ) and walk up the hill - it 's a beautiful view as you walk up . Then in the park , there are two herds of deer - Red and Fallow - about 600 in total . My goal is always to find the deer - it 's a huge park and not always immediately obvious where they 've moved to on any given day , but you will find them if you look . Stop for a break at the ice-cream vendor in the middle , just above the lake on the eastern side of the park . And if you are into seeing animals , London Zoo has an amazing collection , and all types - be it mammals , reptiles , birds , fish or insects that you might want to see . World famous , highlights for me was seeing a live Okapi , and the giant anteaters ! . Borough Market is fantastic - it 's been around for nearly 1000 years , just on Southbank . It 's open from Thursday to Saturday , and the cheeses are fantastic ! Also have a Monmouth coffee at the southern end of the market . Afterwards , a walk up to the Thames and along Southbank is a really nice walk in either direction .
end question
start question
How to get from Split to Supetar by ferry ?
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
South West Rocks ( and Arakoon ) is indeed an amazing place - I was lucky enough to grow up near-by , and holidayed at " the rocks " at least once a year . The nearest major city to South West Rocks is Kempsey , which is on both the Sydney-Brisbane rail line , as well as on the main highway between those cities . There are 2 bus services that run multiple daily services between Kempsey and South West Rocks , although keep in mind that at least some of these services double as school buses so you may want to avoid those particular services . <URL> <URL> ( Timetable may or may not be current ! ) The Busways route starts on Belgrave St , but not at the end where the train station is , but instead down near the highway . This is where most of the long distance coaches stop .
Yes , you can travel with regional trains . It takes a little over 4 hours plus the connection times , and there are no good connections , so count on 5 to 6 hours for the journey . The bus takes 4 -- 5 hours and is cheaper than regional trains . It is n't easy to find the train times or prices because online planners tend to go for the fastest journey only . There 's an option to avoid ICE on the <URL> , which avoids other high-speed trains such as Thalys ( currently -- it did n't in the past ) . If you ca n't get a list of local trains connections , look up Bruxelles -- Lille , Lille -- Amiens and Amiens -- Paris separately . As of today , you can break your journey as follows : Paris -- Amiens : 21.60 $ , lasts 66min to 99min , about 1 train per hour . Amiens-Lille Flandres : 21.10 $ , lasts 80min , about 1 train per hour . Lille Flandres -- Bruxelles with a change at Tournai : 22.60 $ , lasts 102min , about 1 train per hour . That 's a total of 65.30 $ . It should be a little less if you go to a train station and buy a single ticket ( I do n't think you can buy that ticket online ) . In comparison , a last minute Thalys ticket costs 99 $ and the journey is only 82min . If I elect to travel one day later I find seats for 69 $ ( obviously this depends on how full the trains are ) . A last minute ticket on <URL> costs 39 $ for a 4-hour journey or 29 $ for a 5-hour journey , with no break of journey either way . So regional trains do n't seem like a good compromise between price , comfort and speed .
As usual , ' best ' is not a good question ? Does that mean ' cheapest ' , ' fastest ' or ' best scenery ' ? It seems there is only one direct flight from Havana to San Jose , this is with <URL> , a one way fare can be found for $ 350 US . Alternatively you can fly to Cancun ( Mexico ) , Managua ( Nicaragua ) or Panama City and then take <URL> .
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
To travel between Bodrum and Datça by bus , you will need to transfer in Marmaris . If you ca n't find direct service between Bodrum and Marmaris , you can always transfer in Muğla , which is the provincial capital and a stopping point for long-distance buses travelling from north western Turkey to the western Mediterranean . If you can find an intercity bus for either leg of this trip , it will be more comfortable , but you will likely find it easier to take one of the local companies ' smaller buses since they will have more departures . Bodrum to Marmaris will probably take close to four hours thanks in part to the steep descent prior to the plain near Gökova , but it really depends on how lucky you are with a connection in Muğla . From Marmaris , there will be frequent minibuses to Datça . According to the ferry website , the cost for a one-way ticket is $ 12 . The total bus fares will exceed that , but not by a huge amount .
The website I prefer for UK train timetables is <URL> . One of it 's handy features is being able to look up the last train of the day , for example <URL> . As Roflcoptr pointed out , the last weekday train at the moment is the 22:35 , which gets you into Cambridge at 01:22 ( via a cross London transfer to Kings Cross ) . You might just be able to get away with the 22:50 from Gatwick , if you have n't got too much luggage . The 22:50 gets into London Victoria at 23:20 , which gives you 40 minutes to get down to the tube , wait for a tube , travel 5 stops , and get up to the station . Fine if there are no problems and you 're not too bad for luggage , but ca n't be guaranteed ... Otherwise , it 's a National Express coach to London , then change onto a different National Express coach to Cambridge . The website for looking up times and prices is <URL> . Does n't look good though , leaving Gatwick at 23:40 today wo n't get you to Cambridge until about 5am ...
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
Some crossings that are longer than 1000 km , as the crow flies : <URL> : 1095 km <URL> : 1382 km <URL> : 1504 km <URL> has some long routes : Selgovia -- Dutch Harbor ( 1096 km ) , Bellingham -- Skagway ( 1451 km ) . But nothing beats <URL> with 2219 km . Question is if this is still a ferry considering it does n't go very often ( apparently just three times a year ) . Norwegian Hurtigruten takes cars : <URL> which is 1541 km as the crow flies , but at least twice as long with the route it actually takes .
<URL> : Budapest Franz Liszt International Airport ... is the country 's largest airport , located about 16 km ( 10 mi ) southeast of the city centre . Budapest Airport is notoriously hard to get in and out of . While a train connection between the city and the terminal has been built , it only served Terminal 1 , which is now defunct , and the currently used Terminal 2 is an at least 10 mins drive away , on the very other side of the airport . Public transportation between the city and airport requires changing from bus to rail or metro and takes between 40 mins to an hour . There is a single and long two-lane road connecting the city and Ferihegy , and it unsurprisingly gets congested at peak times , especially on the way to the airport , so bear this in mind and depart for the airport early ( at least an hour before the boarding time to make sure you clear security ) . Of course , you mention you 're travelling at night , so traffic would be less . And you 're wondering specifically about going from Kőbánya-Kispest . <URL> , would seem to indicate 16-24 minutes travel time from Kőbánya-Kispest to the airport . I played with it a bit and traffic seems to start to increase after 6am , but you should be at the airport well before that , especially if it 's an international flight .
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
When I traveled to Greece 2 years ago I traveled between Athens/Santorini/Mykonos / Ikaria . We bought our tickets when we arrived in Greece . I had the same problem as you , where there was n't a really good website to purchase tickets from in the US , but things may have changed since back then . I did end up use this website <URL> to find out ferry schedules . I just found the sites of two ferries we used a couple times when we were over there . Seems like their websites have improved drastically . <URL> <URL> Take note that some routes are a lot faster than others . This is usually because the boats make more frequent stops or are just faster boats in general . If you do n't book online , there are many travel agencies in Athens and Piraeus that will book tickets for you , you can typically just ask a local where you can buy a ferry ticket . We never ran into a ferry selling out , but of course you may experience something different . With regards to booking deck tickets , it can be cool the first couple of minutes , but can get old very quickly when the water starts splashing around if the water is particularly choppy that day . Also , some ferry decks do not have seating so you have to make yourself comfortable on the deck itself . Also if the sun is out and beating down on you , it can make for a tough trip .
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
<URL> goes from Motobu ( 本部 ) to Kagoshima ( 鹿児島 ) around twice weekly , but the price difference is marginal : <URL> : & yen ; 15,200 in 2nd class <URL> : & yen ; 14,300 in 2nd class And by remarkable coincidence , the <URL> are precisely the same .
Google Maps has a pretty good knowledge of the London public transport . <URL> will show you several options , which will all have you arriving before 6:40 am on Saturday ( tomorrow -- although any Saturday ought to be roughly the same ) . The one that looks the most attractive to me is the last one , which is to take the 295 bus ( although 283 may be just as good ) to Hammersmith , then the Picadilly line to LHR . It includes only 6 minutes of walking . On the London Tube web site you can see the <URL> as well as <URL> . Whether a strike-caused outage would be posted early enough to help you make your travel plans , I have no idea . I suggest waking up a bit early and checking , just in case . Then at least you 'll have the option to call a taxi in time , if the worst should happen .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
There are two companies running a direct bus connection between the airports . <URL> . Their bus # 910 runs <URL> and takes 60 minutes . A single ticket costs 5 ( or 7.5 , depending on the time ) , pre-bookable on their website . <URL> . Their bus # 1195 runs <URL> and takes 75 minutes . A single ticket costs 8 , with no reservations available online . As an alternative you could <URL> from one airport to the other for about 60 . The journey should take around 40 minutes , depending on the traffic . <URL> used to run a <URL> between the two airports , taking 10 minutes and costing 40 , but unfortunately it 's no longer available .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
end question
start question
Am I too heavy for Chinese hard sleeper trains ?
By hard sleeper class I assume you are talking about this If this is the case , then you will for sure be ok with the bottom level . As for the other 2 levels , I am not 100 % sure , I think I have seen the max weight on those but I can not recall at the moment
If you attempt to book at <URL> site you could see the amenities that a train has . For example <URL> for April 5th lists that trains have restroom in them . P.S. Not sure that I would consider trains in Israel travelling long distances .
There 's <URL> So provided they are n't so heavy as to be a potential " blunt instrument " weapon , you should be ok . If they 're in original packaging , that might help . Of course , they do n't have to let any items through , restricted list or not . You may also wish to check the website of your airline , for their prohibited items list . I 'd be suprised to see any consumer electronics on there , but better safe than sorry . You 're more likley to get in trouble at the other end . I 'm not clear on the exact regulations for Switzerland , but you are likley to be liable to pay duty and VAT/Sales Tax on imported items . <URL> says that Switzerland would apply an 8 % tax to imported graphics cards . You can of course go to the " Goods to Declare " window/corridor at customs , but this may eat into your saving significantly .
Your visa will indicate how many times you are permitted to enter China under that visa . On the first line , there should be a field " ENTRIES " with a letter and a chinese character following it . If that letter is M , you are eligible for multiple entries . China also has single and double-entry visas ; presumably , those would be the letters S and D respectively . If you have a double-entry visa and you have only visited China once or if you have a multiple entry visa you are eligible to re-enter . However , if you have a single-entry visa or have used both entries of a double-entry visa , you must apply for a new visa from the Chinese consulate . Hong Kong , while under Chinese sovereignty , is run by its own government and has its own immigration controls . US citizens are eligible to visit Hong Kong for tourist purposes for up to 90 days without a visa so long as you have a departure ticket and adequate funds . Visiting Tibet requires documentation additional to the Chinese visa , namely the Tibet Travel Visa and a PSB permit . These permits are usually granted to visitors who are on a pre-arranged group tour , and China does close Tibet to outside visitors from time to time . Taiwan is de facto its own country and has its own immigration controls . US citizens are eligible to visit Taiwan for tourist purposes for up to 90 days without a visa so long as you have a departure ticket and adequate funds .
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
Strange choice of transit but not mine . There is no visa required for transit as long as do n't leave the terminal . All international departures happen in terminal D and the visa information from <URL> is as follows : China - Destination Passport Passport required . Document validity rules : Passports and other documents accepted for entry must be valid on arrival . Type : Ok China - Destination Visa Additional information : Valid visas or resident permits in expired passports are accepted if holding valid passport of the same nationality . Type : Notice China - Destination Health This information is for guide purposes only . Other health organisations may recommend alternative precautions . Passengers arriving within 6 days after leaving or transiting countries with risk of yellow fever transmission and not holding a yellow fever vaccination certificate are subject to vaccination upon arrival . At the airport of Dalian ( DLC ) passenger will be kept in quarantine for 10 days or deported . Exempt from Yellow Fever vaccination : Children under 9 months of age . Recommended Health and Vaccination precautions : Malaria prophylaxis . Malaria risk , including P. falciparum , exists in Yunnan and Hainan . P. falciparum resistance to chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine reported . Limited risk of P. vivax malaria exists in southern and some central provinces . There is no malaria risk in the urban areas . Recommended prevention in risk areas : B ; in Hainan and Yunnan : C . In Timatic , the recommended type of prevention is referred to as : - Type A ( very limited risk of malaria transmission ) - Mosquito bite prevention only . - Type B ( risk of P. vivax malaria only ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus chloroquine chemoprophylaxis . - Type C ( risk of P. falciparum malaria with chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine resistance ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus atovaquone-proguanil or doxycyline or mefloquine chemoprophylaxis . - Type D ( risk of P. falciparum malaria plus reported multi-drug resistance ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus plus atovaquone-proguanil or doxycyline or mefloquine chemoprophylaxis , depending on local drug restistance . Chemoprophylaxis should be started preferably one week before departure and no later than the first day of exposure ; it must be taken with unfailing regularity and continued for 4 weeks after the last exposure . No prophylactic regimen is 100 % protective against infection , but even if it fails to prevent the disease it may , nevertheless , render the infection milder and less life threatening . Type : Notice Ukraine - Transit Visa Visa required . Transiting without a visa is possible for : Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours through Kiev Boryspil ( KBP ) . Type : Ok Ukraine - Transit Health This information is for guide purposes only . Other health organisations may recommend alternative precautions . Vaccinations not required .
I 'm not brilliantly positioned to answer this , but since nobody else has ... So I walked a small section of the route back in 2000 or so ( Sounkyo Onsen to Kurodake and back ) as a day trip , just enough to realize that it 's a pretty " serious " national park and you 'll want to be well prepared for a serious hike : As you can see , the problem is not that it 's 55 km long , it 's that you 're going up and down and up and down in the mountains , exposed to the wind , rain , snow and ice ( there 's no forest cover on the plateau ) -- the picture above is the view from Kurodake on a relatively warm late summer day ! So if you have no previous experience , I 'd hook up with somebody else or try out a shorter section of the route . Asahidake to Kurodake can be done in two days with lodging en route , so you do n't need to carry a tent etc. . This guide looks rather useful : <URL> And for what it 's worth , his opinion is that 5 days for the full traverse is pushing it , and most people are better off budgeting 6 or even 7 .
Your whole trip is covered by the Eurail pass , but you should pay for reservations . If you go to the website for Eurail pass , there is a <URL> . For the Eurostar from London to Paris , you must reserve a seat . In 2nd class , it is worth 89 euros . On the <URL> , it says that CityNightLine trains are accessible , but you must reserve a seat/berth . For example , a berth in 2nd class with a Global Eurail pass costs 27.5 euros .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
This should not be an issue in big stations . Usually they have an international ticket desk . Though my experience does n't include Germany , I was able to buy tickets for foreign trains in France ( for Italian , Spanish and Belgian trains ) , in the Czech Republic ( for Swedish trains ) , in Sweden ( for German and Italian trains ) , and probably others that I do n't remember .
Yes it is . You can make reservations for domestic trains and for trains to Montenegro via e-mail or telephone . You find the contact details on the <URL> .
I wound up using <URL> and had no problems . It took around two weeks from application to the return of my passport with the visa in it .
According to this image atleast : <URL> if you look into the other room <URL> you can even see a a macbook beeing charged .
There is catering on some local Intercity trains as well . It used to be served using small trolleys , but a few years ago they switched to backpacks and added more brands like Starbucks . The NS is not providing structured information about where they are . " On Intercity 's throughout the Netherlands and on the NS Hispeed train ... " <URL> ( Dutch ) However , you 'll have most change to find them on the longer IC tracks , e.g. : Utrecht < > Zwolle Zwolle < > Almere Utrecht < > Den Bosch Utrecht < > Deventer Zwolle < > Groningen There is some info <URL> , but I 'm not sure how acurate it is .
A quite a good resource is imho the standard clock setting in Microsoft Windows installations : image from talkstandards.com As you can see , it 's particularly North America , India , the Philippines , Colombia , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Australia This is more or less confirmed by <URL> that states that in most English-speaking regions , particularly the United States , the Philippines and the United Kingdom and its former colonies , the 12-hour clock is the predominant form of stating the time .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
I am a business traveller from Britain , so I have never had to actually apply for a UK Visa , but my experience of similar situations says to me that you should n't refer to this as an interview but a ' meeting ' . During your visit you wo n't be being paid in the UK so you are n't a threat . Normally I arrive in a country as a ' general visitor ' because I am just ' meeting ' not ' working ' . You should also carry a printed version of the invitation to interview , contact details of the person you are visiting , exact details of where you are staying and preferably some means of showing that you are n't going to stay beyond . Part of proof is either showing that you have commitments back home ( e.g. already have a job , property lease or mortgage ) and that you have enough money to survive on ( have a recent bank statement showing you have money ) . Also make sure you have your return tickets and arrangements clear so they know you plan to return .
Legally , you can book a hotel room if you are 18 in the state of Washington . I believe this is true in most parts of the U.S. , but there may be exceptions for particular states . Some hotels have policies with a higher minimum age , such as 21 . However , this is far from universal . You might have to do a little bit of extra research , including checking hotel websites , emailing , or calling for confirmation . However , I do n't think you 'll have a big problem finding a room .
Fot his specific strike , my answer is too late , but since the Belgian railways are prone for strikes ( sometimes even instant strikes ) I can still answer . The bus connection google mentions is not worth a try , especially if there are strikes . You mention 3 connections , meaning in practice your travel time will be doubled due to at least one missed connection . In my opinion there are three options . Enjoy brussels during the strike For the adventurous and sportive traveler buying a bike might be a good solution . It is only 54 kilometers and the scenery is worth it . Buying a bike at shops like the Hema or Decathlon it is definitely cheaper then renting a car . Google maps will give you <URL> Send a tweet with the hashtags #nmbs and #staking and ask for either a hitchhike or others to share in the costs for renting a car or a taxi . I am using this approach a lot in similar situation and I am always surprised how well that works .
I found a helpful video for exactly this problem - and it 's an easy solution : just put a pillow under your midsection and your spine will be much better supported . <URL>
end question
start question
Are the Paris Catacombs currently open for visiting ?
As a matter of fact , they just have been reopened . The Musée Carnavalet , the museum in charge of the catacombs , announced on their <URL> one hour ago : Bonne nouvelle ! Les Catacombes sont de nouveau ouvertes au public . Nous vous souhaitons un agréable après-midi Which translates to : " Good news ! The catacombs are now again open to the public . We wish you a good afternoon . "
Yes I have heard from authorities of Shremetyevo airport that this airport remain open in night time and seems very pleasant during night also and you can enjoy your stay there . But I have no experience staying there .
Telling the truth that your are married is correct and after giving the invitation letter and salary certificates . I do n't think there wont be any issue at all . If possible , if you have marriage certificate , there are no chances to question your wife anything thereafter .
This is a good question . If you have 5 days and you travel via Geneva there is an interesting option , which provides a good balance between time spent in trains , cities and mountains . This options involves using the scenic <URL> between Montreux and Luzern . The nice point about this trip is that it can be done at any time of the year . The trains are running all year round . And the mountains are always nice ! The trip runs as follows : Paris - Geneva - Lausanne - Montreux - Zweisimmen - Interlaken - Luzern - Zürich . Below you find a proposal of how to allocate the 5 days . The travel times are approximate . Use the <URL> to find out the precise information . Day 1 : Travel from Paris to Geneva ( 3 hours ) in the morning . Visit Geneva and continue to Lausanne ( 40 minutes ) in the evening . Spend the night in Lausanne . Day 2 : Spend a day and a night in Lausanne . Day 3 : Travel by train to Montreux ( 20 minutes ) and take there the train to Zweisimmen ( 2 hours ) and from there a train to Interlaken ( 90 minutes ) . You can spend the night in Interlaken or in Grindelwald or Wengen . The latter are two nice villages in the surroundings . It 's a matter of taste ( and possibly of budget ) . Day 4 : Spend a day in the mountains and visit the <URL> . Stay overnight in Interlaken , Grindelwald or Wengen . Day 5 : Travel to Luzern ( 2 hours from Interlaken ) , in the morning . Visit Luzern . When you are done , continue to Zürich ( 45 minutes ) . Of course , the 5 days can be allocated a bit differently , according to your gusto .
I doubt it will change much , driving will still be faster . Based on a <URL> , we find out that it currently takes up to 7 hours by car , while it takes 9 hours by train , through Austria . The Gotthard tunnel is located in Switzerland , and while its goal is to <URL> , there is no fast train route between Munich and Zurich . What is interesting to notice is that on the map , by drawing a straight line between Munich and Genoa , it does not go through Switzerland ( or only along its eastern border ) . So going by train through the Gotthard tunnel will likely not help . If we still try to estimate the time it takes between the two cities with the estimate given in the first article , going between Munich and Zurich currently takes at least 3h40 according to the <URL> in a bus ( ! ) , then say 2h40 to Milano , and finally with the Google Maps search we found that the train between Milano and Genoa takes 1h45 . By adding up all of them , we still find 8 hours . In the end , even if somehow the Deutsche Bahn or the SBB decided to run a train all the way from Munich to Milano/Genoa , the total time it takes will probably not beat the driving time . So unfortunately there will be no change in the hierarchy of faster transportation , driving will still be faster .
It is currently impossible to cross the border at all . Recent info from <URL> ( which I have praised in <URL> ) as <URL> Since the April 2015 Nepal Earthquake , the Tibet Nepal border has been closed to foreign travelers . [ ... ] At this time , it is impossible to say when this border will reopen . [ ... ] For now , it remains impossible to say when exactly the border will reopen . And this is still all that can be said . You may have gotten hopeful by <URL> linked in <URL> above - however that precedes a massive rockslide just past the Chinese border buildings following heavy rains in July 2016 at Kyirong . You should give a good look to <URL> and especially the sections " When will the Tibet-Nepal Border Reopen ? " and " What Areas Are Closed ? " The author of the website/blog promises to update that article once there are changes and post <URL> as well . The old border in Zhangmu seems to be a ghost town by now and apparently there are no plans to re-open the border . While residents claim the street condition on the Nepal side is as before the earthquake , there is still the occasional ( fatal ) boulder that comes down , as reported in <URL> .
You 'll need to have good timing for art events in Los Angeles after dark ; there are few art museums open late , and mostly for special events on weekends , and mostly in the summertime . Many of the larger museums do stay open slightly later , to 7:30 pm or 8pm , on certain nights of the week . But as commenters have noted , you may not savor the cross-town trek ( or the corresponding taxi fare ) at the height of rush hour to buzz through for an hour . LAX is not well-served by rail transit either , and even for a patient person in <URL> , the <URL> would require a ridiculously roundabout routing . Many of the larger museums host special events in the evening . A few of these may be accessible to the public , but tickets tend to be steep . For example , for a 6:30 -9:00 pm lecture and limited exhibit access at the California Science Center for Stanford University alumni , general admission was <URL> . The <URL> sponsors a series known as <URL> , with museum access , tours , lectures/discussions , concerts , and DJs running from about 5pm to 10pm on the first Friday of each month . The program is very popular , and so advance ticket purchase ( around $ 20 ) is recommended . The museum is located in Exposition Park , a bit south of downtown . The NHM and the Page Museum at the <URL> also sponsor <URL> on select weekends , mostly for children but some adult-only . As the name implies , these are sleepover events , but it is n't a prison -- I do n't suppose they could stop you from leaving early . Admission in 2015 is $ 75 . The <URL> , which features Jewish art and culture , sponsors a variety of lectures , film screenings , and concerts which run to 10pm or midnight . The challenge is getting from LAX all the way up to Sherman Oaks and back . The <URL> in Century City hosts a concert series in the summer , <URL> , which runs to 11pm on certain Fridays . Advance registration is required . The <URL> is open until 9pm on Saturdays , though given its location up in the hills above Brentwood , that will be very little time to explore . Both it and the <URL> in Pacific Palisades are open till 9pm on Fridays in the summer . The <URL> in the Mid-Wilshire district has sponsored a variety of Late Night at LACMA events over the years , sometimes a blowout over a single weekend , sometimes a handful of exhibits every Friday in the late summer ; however , I could not find much information for the current season . For galleries , the <URL> runs on the second Thursday of every month , when about 30 galleries in DTLA stay open until about 10pm . Guided tours are available from the headquarters near Pershing Square , but they sell out . Of course , there are many other attractions that stay open later , if not late . The <URL> , for example , is open till 10pm . In Hollywood , the <URL> , Madame Tussaud 's , and the Ripley 's museum are open to 9 or 10pm on weekends , if that sort of thing interests you . But L.A. , while much more culturally vibrant than its stereotype , is not famous for its visual arts . Speaking for myself , watching the sunset from Santa Monica Pier would be the classic L.A. experience to remember .
While the answer from a Parisian is probably ' all over ' or ' my local patisserie ' , for those among us who are n't locals , <URL> ( 72 Rue Bonaparte , 75006 Paris , France ) is probably a good place to start . However , they tend to use it as part of other desserts , like their <URL> : Dacquoise biscuit with crunchy hazelnuts , hazelnut crisp , thin wafers of milk chocolate , milk chocolate ganache and milk chocolate chantilly . There 's a website , Parispatiserries , which <URL> : And that Dacquoise itself was really the highlight for me . Not only was the internal texture of it moist and slightly spongy , but it had a beautiful sweetness and surface texture that Mr. Tongue found thoroughly amusing . As an alternative , though , if you wish to focus on it just as a dessert , <URL> ( 25 , rue Jussieu , Paris , France ( Panthéon ) ) also serves it . <URL> and ranks it # 245 of 13,636 Restaurants in Paris .
Its open only for Indian or Nepalese citizens . Its not open for citizens of other countries . <URL> which says Indian citizen entering Nepal should have proper identity to prove that they are valid Indian citizens , that means no need of visa . And <URL> . On first line it says : Introductory Information Except Bhutan &amp; Nepal Nationals all foreign nationals including children MUST obtain a visa to travel to India . Hope this helps And if you are travelling on a car or bikes or any means of transport from one country to another between India and Nepal , you have to make an entry at border check point but its always wise to get a letter ( like No objection Letter for a car , bike ) from respective embassy from current country .
Well , it 's not yet a full answer , but it 's a start . The ferry leaves Mersin once a week . But ... as I write this ( October 16 , 2012 ) , after having spoken to Anrusstrans , the ferry has not run for the ' past month ' and will not run for ' at least another month ' . ( I might have an opportunity to try them again in April 2013 . Any updates in the meantime are most welcome . )
The shopping malls in and around DC ( and everywhere else stateside ) will be in full swing starting 26 December to about close of play on 31 December . This would include <URL> , and if you do not arrive early you can expect to have to use <URL> . Shops at Tysons will be open from 10AM to 9:30 PM , 1000 to 2130 . You will also be able to take ice skating lessons at the rink and on 27 December you will have a chance to meet the <URL> . Barnes and Noble will also have special events throughout the week .
It appears that Slovakia does not celebrate Mary 's Assumption , unlike Austria : <URL> <URL> So , it 's pretty safe to say that shops and museum will be open in Slovakia on the 15th of August .
The Queensbridge Projects are located in Long Island City , and this means you can communicate directly with the cognizant community board for travel advice and other matters arising in that area . The board is called , " Community Board 1 " , and their contact details are Conveniently , they have an email and will be able to provide you with the best times and routes to use through the Projects . With fortune , they may be able to connect you with a local ' guide ' who can accompany you . The Mayor 's will be able to put you further in touch for the other Projects in NYC you want to visit . Source <URL>
Official hours are available from the <URL> website , and all the locations I checked meshed with hours posted on independent websites . The major monuments , museums , and archeological sites in Athens are open on Sundays , even in winter , for example <URL> and <URL> <URL> and <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( Temple of the Olympic Zeus ) <URL> Smaller museums close on Mondays , especially in the off-season , as is common in Western countries . They will also close on more public holidays . The ministry website is incomplete ; for example , it lists no hours for the Theatre of Dionysus Eluthereos or for the Temple of Hephaestus . You will need to rely on other sources , as with monasteries and other private attractions which set their own hours for when visitors are permitted .
Living in Costa Rica is obviously really , really cheap . Immigration will accept a wallet full of Euros as " proof of sufficient funds " - any decent bank will have no problem changing Euros , US Dollars or Pounds for Colones . Yuan , Rials , Baht and other currencies not printed in the roman alphabet are less likely . The taxi driver wo n't take Euros , but the money exchange counter at any international airport serving Central America can give you enough local money to get you through the weekend . At the usual extortionary rates of course . You could always take a couple of hundred US dollars , but get $ 10s or $ 20s . US$ 100 are frequently counterfeited , and in that part of the world will likely set off the drug detector .
You can find information about train stations in France on the <URL> web site . The translation is somewhat haphazard . A left luggage facility is called a consigne ( consigne automatique for automated lockers , or consigne manuelle if there 's an attendant ) . In <URL> , there are both automated lockers ( acessible as long as the station is open , i.e. 4:30 -- 1:00 ) and a left luggage office ( open daily 6:15 -- 23:15 ) . They are on the underground level near the taxi rank , which means they 're very close to the exit from the Eurostar platforms . ( Paris Nord is n't very big anyway , once you 've walked to the front of the train which can be about 400m . )
Open ticket means that the return date is not fixed . The date of the first flight is set ( although typically this can be changed for a fee ) . Assuming that it is an unrestricted ticket that means that you can get a return flight on any date usually up to a year after your outbound flight . You will need to call the airline to book a specific date once you know when you want to use the ticket . This will , of course , be subject to availability . You can not use it for a flight that is already fully booked . Assuming the flight is n't full , you could do this at the airport at the last minute . To buy an open ticket you will usually have to go through the airline or a travel agent ( i.e. not a website ) . Restrictions vary with price . All open tickets must be used within a specific timeframe ( at best 1 year ) . They are often only available for business class etc. . Some have a fixed return date that can be changed for a nominal ( or not so nominal ) fee ( useful if you have a ' I wont be longer than this ' date but would like the option to return earlier ) . Ask before you purchase the ticket . I should add that as these tickets are mostly used by business travelers , they are priced accordingly . They are rarely cheap .
I just met a friend yesterday who came back from a journey to Georgia . He wanted also to cross the border to Russia but it was n't possible . They told him it is only allowed for Russian and Georgian citizens . Do n't know if they told him wrong facts , but afaik the border is closed .
I am Ukrainian , just took a weekend trip to Norway ( flying from/to KBP ) and there were no issues whatsoever at border in either direction . [ update ] Well , that escalated quickly ... According to news due to tension with Russia border with them is " nearly locked down " . According to reports : Russians coming are getting denied entry in droves Ukrainians going are getting asked for things like proof of funds for stay and medical insurance , which is n't typical procedure .
There is only one place designated for visitors inside the walls of the Vatican , the Domus Sanctae Marthae ( Casa Santa Marta ) . But its purpose is to lodge ecclesiastical personnel serving at the Secretariat of State and , as far as possible , at other Dicasteries of the Roman Curia , as well as to cardinals and bishops visiting Vatican City to see the Pope or to participate in events and meetings organized by the Holy See . <URL> and in particular , the cardinal electors during a papal conclave . In other words , being invited to stay here as a lay person not on official business would be something extraordinary . You might petition your prelate to recommend you for an invitation , but I think receiving one would be akin to receiving an invitation to stay at Buckingham Palace or the Blair House . There are various options very close to the Vatican , but there will be tradeoffs . There are a couple of accessible full-service hotels like the Residenza Paolo VI and the Palazzo Cardinal Cesi within a block or two of St. Peter 's Square , but prices seem to be high . As pilgrims , you may prefer a guesthouse operated by a religious order ( mostly convents ) , of which there are many in the city . The website <URL> , after the guidebook of the same name , includes selected recommendations for convent stays . A more complete and up-to-date website to check would be <URL> , though the English content is sparse . But to make arrangements directly , you 'll probably need someone who speaks Italian , so a site like <URL> or <URL> might be well worth the booking fee . Another tradeoff is that these are not hotels . The accommodations are simple , and the establishments offer limited services . They mostly impose curfews and early checkouts . The staff you meet may only speak Italian . They may not be accessible for the mobility-impaired . And naturally , the closer the amenities one is to that of a hotel or inn , the closer in price to a hotel or inn you may expect to pay . The extraterritorial properties of the Vatican are mostly individual buildings , and I do not believe it is possible for a tourist to stay overnight in any of them .
end question
start question
Is there a way to keep up to date with Schengen border crossings being closed/controlled due to the migration crisis ?
It 's nigh impossible to know this without extensive recent experience with a specific border . Even news reports can be misleading and there is no easy way to keep up with the situation . There is a procedure for a member state to officially notify the EU Commission that it is reintroducing border checks ( cf. title III , chapter II of the Schengen Borders code ) , which is probably the basis for many maps and articles you will find on the net . A list of states that used the procedure is available to the public on <URL> . But whether states did it or not does not really reflect actual practice on the ground . For example , I have heard many direct and indirect reports from people who crossed the border between France and Italy and witnessed border checks there but , to my knowledge , France never notified the EU about it and the situation has been going on for much longer than envisioned by the regulation . On the other hand , France did report its intent to reintroduce border checks for the Paris Climate Conference last December but even after the Paris attack that happened at the same time and the ongoing state of emergency , the checks are far from systematic . And when states do reintroduce border checks , legally or illegally , they typically focus on specific locations , targeting sensitive borders , larger crossings or public transportation networks rather than actually staffing each and every border crossing point ( many of which do n't even have a building anymore ) . I believe many Schengen countries have reduced the size or refocused the tasks of their border police force and simply do not have the capacity to perform full border checks without seriously straining their regular police force .
It 's possible , but you would have to charter your own speedboat , which would be stupidly expensive : quotes on the net vary from 8000 baht for a privately negotiated transfer to 15000 baht ( ! ) to getting the Holiday Inn to pick you up in their own boat . Staying another night and taking the ferry across the next day will thus almost certainly be cheaper . In addition , the feasibility and cost of this will depend on weather conditions , and the crossing will be actively dangerous if your departure is delayed for any reason and you end up doing it at night : those speedboats are fast and you 're screwed if you hit anything in the dark . Also , Destination Air used to offer a seaplane shuttle for 5000 baht/seat , but this stopped running a few years ago .
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
Generally speaking German IC and ICE are somewhat comparable to Dutch IC in that they do not stop at every station along the way . Their comfort level is higher ( often with a bar/restaurant and always the possibility to reserve a seat ) which make them feel more luxurious than Dutch trains but they are not really " exclusive " . Like TGV in France , ICE are in fact very common , gradually replacing IC on many lines so planning around them is difficult . Practicality of regional trains to cover long distances is going to depend on the precise time and destination . As an example , a quick search on bahn.de shows that Hengelo to Stettin is about 11 hours with 5 to 7 changes . You can reach the same destination in less than 8 hours , with two changes using the Amsterdam-Berlin direct train . If you travel alone and are able to book in advance , the price difference is not big : 39 $ to Berlin from any station in the Netherlands plus 10 $ for the Berlin-Stettin-Ticket , which works out to 8 $ more than the schönes Wochende Ticket . Following the same idea , you can also cross the Dutch border with a regional train or by some other means and book a Europa-Spezial ticket from the first German train station to Poland ( <URL> ) , also for 39 $ . You do n't even need to stop near the border , from Berlin you can get a connection all the way to Gdańsk , Warsaw or Kraków with the same ticket . You can travel on a week day as well so this solution is a lot more flexible and comfortable for a very small price difference . However , for several people , the price difference would be significant because one of the main advantage of the schönes Wochende Ticket is that a whole family or a small group ( up to 5 people ) can travel with one ticket .
G Adventures provide a lot of South American tours . They also monitor any safety updates in that region for their travellers . Here 's a timeline of updates and safety info within the last few months : <URL>
Officially or even semi officially no . The plant is still owned by TEPCO so arranging it with them would probably give you a better access and safer tour if they choose to allow it . However , there are other options if you choose to consider them . There is a <URL> or a <URL> virtual tour . Or finally you can try to get a <URL> of the area but there are no contacts given so you may want to consider the repercussions of doing so and what kind of access you will be able to get remains a mystery .
Bring a towel or blanket , some baby wipes , and optionally a small trowel or a stick you picked up along the way . A few small plastic bags are also helpful . If someone ( especially a small child ) ca n't wait until you can exit , pull over at a safe spot . A safe spot has a shoulder significantly wider than the car , and you pull as far off as you can without risking the car sliding off the roadway and getting stuck . Make sure ( by watching as you choose the spot ) you have a good long view behind you ( a straight stretch of road ) so you will be able to get back on the road safely knowing no cars are coming , and a good long view ahead of you so that cars who are passing you can see there is no oncoming traffic and may give you a slightly wider berth . Once pulled over , exit only through the passenger doors . If a child is the " goer " have an adult exit first , then the child . Once the " goer " is out of the car , walk a little further from the road , locate a good spot ( see further ) and have one or possibly two adults hold up the towel or blanket to screen the " goer " from cars passing by . If this is a new experience , make sure the goer does not have one foot downhill of the action , especially if they are going to squat . Watch for poison ivy , nettles , or other unfriendly vegetation that should not be contacted with bare skin . Also watch for insect activity to avoid a sudden and possibly painful interruption . If they 're just peeing , you do n't need to make a hole , but if necessary , make a very shallow hole first , then have the goer use it . Do not bury the wipe , nor any toilet paper - they do n't decompose . Scrape a little dirt over the contents of the hole afterwards . Put the used wipes in the plastic bag for disposal at the rest stop . The wipes can also be used for handwashing . When the goer is done and the pants are back up , the towel or blanket can be put back in the car and used next time or for any other purpose . You may find the wipes handy in other situations too .
Apparently there are images of these beaches being polluted with the oil but reports say so far no official closing of the beaches as stated in the other answer of @pnuts <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and finally there is a video of frustrated citizens trying to clean the beach : <URL> <URL> <URL>
So since you have to basically go on a tour ( unless you volunteer ) , it 's fairly easy to get a visa - see <URL> . Book a tour and they 'll sort the visa for you . <URL> . Volunteering is certainly possible , and a quick google reveals many who have done it . I 'll try and indicate different examples , as each might be harder or easier for future readers . <URL> through Health Volunteers Overseas . <URL> from people who have done it - including a page on <URL> . Another <URL> describes volunteers from Japan , Singapore and New Zealand . Finally <URL> advertised . Many other such sites would exist as well , google certainly showed many more . What 's important , however , as the last blog post pointed out is that you should only volunteer to actually contribute something towards their country , not just to avoid a tourist fee . Of course , if you can succeed in doing both , everyone wins !
I tend to use <URL> to look up historical data . Their main mode is kind of interactive browser ( which is fun to play with by itself ) , but they also generate averages reports for all places their system knows about . It 's a little hard to pinpoint accurate location from your description , since Basque Country seems to more eagerly jump to Spain parts in geolocation . Do n't forget that while we think of weather data as related to certain area , it 's actually gathered in very specific points with weather stations ( often airports ) . I got report for <URL> , while searching for it there . You might want to browse around to refine for something closer to the area you are interested in . Their reports have numerous graphs ( temperature , humidity , clouds , winds , etc ) . For temperature I like their " fraction of time " visualizations :
I ca n't help with the logistics of actually getting the vehicle between Thailand and Australia , however despite what is and is n't possible there , there 's no cheap way to do what you 're asking . Australia has a relatively strict process for approving imported vehicles , which would normally only be worthwhile if the car was in some way special . If the vehicle is left-hand drive ( ie , the steering wheel is on the left ) then there are even stricter rules regarding importing . You can most of the details in the <URL> . If you are only planning to import the vehicle temporarily you can get by with having a <URL> ( CPD ) , but even this will not be cheap -- especially as you 'll have to pay for transportation in both directions . There have been a few other questions here regarding CPD that you 'll be able to find by searching . Unless there are ( very ! ) special circumstances , selling your car in Thailand and buying a new one in Australia will work out much cheaper than trying to transport it .
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
You really should not use the bus for this trip - if you do n't like Russian trains , you 'll definitely will not like the buses on our roads . There are a lot of ferry companies serving this route and I recommend you to visit the <URL> on Volgograd and choose appropriate ( <URL> , for example ) . Main problem for you is to get the ticket only one-way - all companies generally sell roundtrip .
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
There is now an iPhone and iPad app that will do this . It 's called <URL> and you can download it for free in iTunes .
There are no objections to taking the train from Vienna airport to Brno . However , in your precise case , the bus has two advantages . The bus is direct . You get in the bus at the airport and get out off the bus in Brno . No need to change . With the train you have to change at least once , sometimes even twice or three times . You have to carry your luggage through the stations , there is a risk of getting lost or of missing a connection . The bus is cheaper . A single ticket is 17 euros from Vienna airport to Brno . The single train fares are more than 30 euros . For train fares and schedules , you can refer to <URL> . For information on buses , you can refer to <URL> .
I have never used their service , or that of a competitor , but <URL> ( Portable On-Demand Storage ) might do what you want . The big questions will be cost , and timeliness . I also do n't know if they have service outside of the U.S. , but there may be similar services elsewhere in the world . The service , as I understand it , essentially delivers a large " pod " ( metal crate ) to your drive way , where you can load whatever you want . It is then stored in one of their storage facilities , and can later be dropped of again -- at whichever address you specify , including one across the country . As the service is intended for long-term storage , and cross-country moves , it may prove to be un-economical as a sort of " on-demand luggage " service , but it might be worth investigating .
Airlines will bump up a departure time if they feel they can get the plane out earlier . It helps their on-time performance stats and gets everyone to their destination a little earlier . But this is done only when they are certain everyone will be onboard earlier . The decision would likely be based on 1 ) all originating passengers have checked in XX minutes before the flight 2 ) all flights with connecting passengers have arrived at the airport XX minutes before the flight 3 ) the aircraft is at the gate cleaned and fueled before the new boarding time commences . In addition the airline needs to get clearance from Air Traffic Control for an earlier pushback , departure and arrival slot . So it is not something they do on a whim and would n't be done if there was risk of leaving passengers behind .
There are probably well over a hundred real castles converted to hotels in Europe - maintaining a castle is expensive , so most people who own one need to monetize it somehow . Here 's a <URL> that lists 40 castles and palaces converted into hotels in Germany alone ... The question is : how historical do you want it to be to count as " real " ? Older than 200 years ? Older than 500 ? A pretty solid candidate would be <URL> in Bavaria : first documented in 1280 , never substantially destroyed and rebuilt ( which is the case for a great many old castles ) . However , the historical past is not all that exciting ( the castle seems to have changed hands a lot , but was never involved in big historical events ) .
Hippietrail suggested making this a full answer , so here you go : For dengue , the answer is emphatically no . There are four strains of dengue fever , and while getting one of them confers life-long immunity to that strain , each successive infection with dengue of a different strain carries with it a considerably higher risk of either dengue haemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome . You really , really do n't want either one . This , incidentally , is why you wo n't be seeing a vaccine for dengue fever for quite some time - researchers are justifiably concerned that unless they can confer 100 % immunity for all four strains , the vaccine will actually increase the risk for severe disease . For malaria , its something of a harder question based on a number of different factors , but its not something I would ever count on over malaria prophylaxis , even if you were staying very long term .
end question
start question
Will staying in Northern Cyprus cause problems for later travel in the EU ?
I 'm not sure I qualify as a newcomer anymore , but I 'll make up for it with my enthusiasm for karma whoring :) As Gayot Fow has already stated , the answers to your questions are : No No Yes To explain why , it boils down to the fact that as far as the EU is concerned , the " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus " ( TRNC ) does not exist and the Republic of Cyprus ( ROC ) has authority over the whole island . <URL> , and because EU citizens are allowed to travel freely in the entire territory of the ROC , they 're also allowed to cross over to the TRNC the Turkish-occupied bits of the ROC freely . However , if you 're not a EU citizen , things are more complicated . First , the ROC gets upset if you attempt to enter from the North , because in the ROC 's view -- and this is where we enter the bizarro-world of geopolitics -- the border between the TRNC and the ROC is not really a border , and you 've been in the ROC ever since you touched down at Ercan airport . So if you knock on the gate of the " actual ROC " at Nicosia , and they realize you entered the " theoretical " ROC without going through ROC authorities , you 're now an illegal immigrant ! What about spending long periods of time in the TRNC without ever contacting the ROC then ? If you 're a European citizen , that 's fine ; but if you 're not , you 're an illegal immigrant as far as the ROC is concerned , at least in theory . Back in reality , though , they not only have no authority over you , but they do n't even know you 're there , and you 'll only run into potential trouble if you 're silly enough to enter ROC with TRNC stamps in your passport . Other states in the EU , though , will share the likely opinion of my fair reader at this point : " My head hurts , make it go away . " Which is why the Netherlands , or any EU country except maybe Greece , does not care about your TRNC stamps . The only potential issue will be applying for the visa , as EU embassies in the ROC will likely require proof of ROC residence and embassies in Turkey will require proof of Turkish residence , and you wo n't have either . Neither will they accept any proof of residence issued by the TRNC authorities , because in their opinion the TRNC does n't exist . So applying for the visa in your home country before you leave may be the easiest solution .
The solution to the language barrier problem may be much simpler than relying on the immigration to provide the interpreter for the native language of your family member . Given that he/she is coming from your native country it is much simpler to do one of the following : Find a person on the plane who speaks one of the major languages as well as the native language of your family member . My mother-in-law does it all the time . When she arrives she asks to come through immigration with that person to help her understand what 's being asked and she had no problems on her numerous visits . Ask the air crew for the same help . Yes it may require them to stick around longer then they would normally would but they normally speak at least one language in addition to the native and on most international flights ( if not all ) you will be able to find a person in the crew that speaks the native language of the destination country in this case France . He/She can try to arrange it prior to departure this service definitely is available for kids traveling alone but you can try it for your relative .
Yes , you can - of sorts . When you redeem the voucher you will need to mail it to AA ( or take it to an airport location ) . After it is processed , they will mail you a new paper voucher for the remaining value ( presuming it is more than $ 5 ) . This process normally takes ( at least ) a few weeks , so there will be a window where you will not be able to use the remaining credit , but when it is issued the new visa will have a 1 year expiry .
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
Ok , I was in Cairo in 2007 . With the tensions some may have changed , but here are my suggestions : Alexandria - it 's only a few hours away , and there are connections to get there ( my tour company just offered a day trip before the tour started ) . It was fantastic and I 'm so glad I got to it - the new Great Library is cool , lots of old monuments and Egyptian heritage around , and the seafood was so good ! the churches - there are a variety of historical churches . This is important because as Egypt is now 97 % Muslim , it 's important to realise that this was n't always the case . There are three main ones I 'd recommend - the Coptic Church , the ' Hanging Church ' which is something to be seen to understand and is also allegedly where the Holy Family stayed at one point , and of course , the Citadel and Mosque of Mohamed Ali Pasha up above Cairo for a spectacular view , although quite smog filled . Obviously , the pyramids and Sphinx in Giza . Easy to get to , and yes , you 've seen them a thousand times in pictures , but nothing beats seeing them in person . And it blew my mind that you were actually able to enter one - made my day ! Not good if you 're claustrophobic though . Egyptian Museum - I was shocked that I actually had to argue with my group to extend a 30 min visit to 45 minutes for this . Fortunately we had a rest day when we came back through Cairo , so I was able to spend most of a day here - it 's spectacular , an absolute gem if you like your history , and even if you do n't - the Mummy Room - with kings and queens of past - it 's incredible that you can be so close to royalty in that way ( if a little weird ) . There are obviously lots of local attractions like the Nile felluca rides , sheesha , and the Cairo Tower , but I 'm trying to write about trips that take a good part of a day , if not all of it . I hope that helps .
I do not believe it is legal for hunters to sell their wild game directly to restaurants in the surrounding states , so even though " wild " game and poultry are available on many Washington , D.C.-area menus , a farm-to-table arrangement is usually advertised . Chowhound and , to a lesser extent , MenuPages , is a good resource . Bison , duck , quail , and rabbit are relatively widely available , and you can even get elk and deer venison burgers at the Fuddrucker 's hamburger chain . There are a couple of restaurants in the Washington area known for their wild game offerings ( bolded below ) , but note that such dishes are often seasonal and that menus change often . It 's always good to contact the restaurant to confirm a particular dish is available . Great Falls has two restaurants featuring wild game on their regular menu . <URL> in Great Falls offers emu , antelope , rabbit , venison , wild boar , and assorted wild game dishes . " <URL> , an Alsatian restaurant , has deer and quail dishes , and has offered pheasant and elk in the past . In Arlington , there is <URL> with venison , rabbit , and bison dishes , and in Falls Church the well-regarded <URL> offers a venison chop and has offered guinea hen and pheasant in the past . In Washington , <URL> offers a separate wild game menu , currently featuring quail , venison , and wild boar . Other places with the occasional quail , venison , or boar dish include <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
According to Visa Waiver Program <URL> ( I assume you can join the Visa Waiver Program ) Passport validity The standard requirement for passport validity is 6 months beyond the expected date of departure from the United States . However , the US has signed agreements with a number of countries to waive this requirement . <URL>
You do not need to renew your passport or obtain an emergency travel document to travel from the US to the UK as a British Citizen . You will be admitted to the United Kingdom with your expired passport . Your difficulty is returning to the USA . However , it will be a lot quicker and cheaper to take advantage of the renewal process while in the United Kingdom . See <URL> You can see what appointment slots are available in advance and book a convenient slot before you leave the USA ( potentially before you book your travel ) . You can use the premium one day service to obtain your replacement passport on the same day as your interview . ( That assumes your replacement gets authorised quickly ; and although there is no reason to expect a simple renewal to take long , you may wish to have a few days of padding . Personally I would want to start this process on the first day of arrival . ) Alternatively -- if the renewal is taking too long -- you may apply for an Emergency Travel Document while in the UK to travel to the US . If you are a permanent US resident , it should be accepted for entry , although you may wish to confirm this with the US Department of Homeland Security . Scroll down to " passport exemptions " : This information is from TIMATIC , the computer system that the airlines use to decide whether they can let you on the plane . There is free access to it here : <URL>
According to <URL> , this is either <URL> line ( 3315 km ) , closely followed by Paris-Moscow ( 3217 km ) . I would have thought that the Venice Simplon Express on the route <URL> or the <URL> route would be a good candidate too , but I ca n't really find the distances . A google maps route plan using a car suggest that both are shorter than the above , but obviously this will depend on the exact route taken .
I 'm not sure whether what you 're looking for exists . One of the better offers I 've seen so far is Prepaidzero 's " Prepaid SIM for mobile data in all of Europe " ( it 's currently listed at the bottom of their <URL> page ) . It 's limited to 7GB for a 30-day period , as well as to 500MB per day . A card that 's valid for 15 days costs $ 221,25 ( about 230 USD at today 's rate ) ; the card is shipped worldwide for a $ 7,00 fee . They offer cards in standard , micro and nano SIM sizes . It does n't quite provide the amount of data you 're looking for . But unless this happens to be an uncompetitive offer , I 'm somewhat skeptical you 'll find a package that offers more than 4 times as much data for a very similar price ( that is , at least 30 GB for around 200 USD as stated in your question ) .
" If you checked your bag through , and did not pick it up in Amsterdam , then you did not go through customs with it already when you enter the UK . Only your hand luggage will have been cleared through customs if you leave the Airport in Amsterdam . Thus , it makes sense to use the " nothing to declare " lane in the UK , as you are in a situation where you could have something to declare . <URL> - Question 5 covers this case and makes it explicit that the customs check will be at the final destination in the EU , except that it does not talk about leaving the Airport or the transfer area . As far as the gates are concerned , there is nothing in the rules , and using the definition of " intra-EU flight " from the page , the green gates would actually be fine to use . Using them with a non-green luggage tag will probably raise suspicion , though .
You should bring your passport , you do n't need anything in addition to this . Northern Ireland is part of the UK , so it 's a domestic trip with no " immigration " or similar . However , almost all airlines require passengers to have photo ID ( for their own commercial reasons - basically to ensure that person flying is the same as the person named on the ticket ) and a passport is the best form of photo ID for a non-European citizen to use .
Yes , the most known one online appears to be the Urban Hive . They have a <URL> , but are located at : Costa Ourani 8 , 1076 Nicosia , Cyprus +357 22 447282 If that fails , <URL> you could consider .
I do agree with <URL> that there is no single resource for bus travel , so I toyed with the idea of creating one . Thinking about what it would take and how to do this I realized , it is a much too big project for one person . So unless there is a group or whole community working on it in a Wiki style it would not work . So I discarded the idea . However when thinking about the content for the site I remembered that the <URL> guides usually have a pretty good section on bus transport . I looked in some of my single country guides and then compared that to what they have online . It turns out they have a decent bus transport section for each country . So by going to www.lonelyplanet.com/countryname/transport/getting-around and then to the ' Bus &amp; tram ' section you get a lot of useful information on traveling on buses in that country . It is not perfect , but it is a good start .
Depending on the country , long stays can be exempt from various taxes . This is an example for <URL> , but I believe it is also the case in many ( all ? ) other US states . Permanent Residents ( 30-Day Rule ) Guests who occupy a hotel room for 30 or more consecutive days are considered permanent residents and are exempt from hotel tax . There can be no interruption of payment during that period . If your stay is not this long , depending on the hotel , the cost of a stay can be any combination of subsets of that stay . I stay in hotels 100s of nights per year and the cost of a 3 day stay in the hotel chain I use could be cheaper if I book as day 1 + days 2-3 , or 1-2 + 3 , or 1 + 2 + 3 or 1-3 . I wrote a program to calculate all of this and can save over $ 1000 for a 2 week stay by finding the optimal combination . Just like airline ticket prices , hotel prices can also fluctuate massively . Booking shorter refundable stays and monitoring the price can lead to being able to rebook these and save considerably . However , in this case you are gambling that the refundable price drops below the current non-refundable price . As Calchas says , you can also attempt to negotiate with the hotel directly too .
You should be fine . All entry points across the country are synchronized to use the same records , so any notes made in San Diego will be visible next time you enter , regardless of where you go . That said , there is a ( small ) risk is that the CBP officer did not completely fix up your records , so when you leave the country , your exit is not tied to your entry . If yes , because the US has no record of you leaving , you might be considered an illegal overstayer and get stopped the next time you come . If you have proof you left the US , eg . an entry stamp into another country , you can sort this out on the spot ; if not , things could get hairy . In a sane country , this would be sorted out at exit immigration , but Uncle Sam does n't have that . If you want to check , you could write to the CBP FOIA department and request a <URL> , which should show your entries and exits , and then you can ( try to ) take action if your exit does n't show . All that said , the mix-up with your niece sounds bizarre and confusing . As a wild guess , I 'd guess somebody screwed up some data entry when they were processing your visa , although I still do n't understand how they could possibly substitute your niece 's details . Which visa do you have , and did she sponsor your application or something ?
The formal name for this program is International Experience Canada . There is essentially nothing about it on the <URL> , other than explanations of how you can bring your possessions with you when you arrive . The <URL> was n't much better but it turned out that was because the program has <URL> . Unfortunately , <URL> does n't cover your answer . My guess would be that when it ends , it ends . If you want a month of not-working to do tourist things , you should do that during the term of the visa . The website does n't seem too worried about whether you 're working or exploring , since " The goal of International Experience Canada is to discover Canada " and they let you work so that you can afford to do that . The contact page is useless , basically just says to talk to your embassy .
No , I do n't think you can use your EU blue card to do either of these . I could not find any special rights to enter other EU countries in the <URL> . But the introduction does contain this : ( 14 ) Third-country nationals who are in possession of a valid travel document and an EU Blue Card issued by a Member State applying the Schengen acquis in full , should be allowed to enter into and move freely within the territory of another Member State applying the Schengen acquis in full , for a period of up to three months , in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 562/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 establishing a Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders ( Schengen Borders Code ) ( 7 ) and Article 21 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 between the Governments of the States of the Benelux Economic Union , the Federal Republic of Germany and the French Republic on the gradual abolition of checks at their common borders . That 's a bit difficult to parse but basically it means that if you have got an EU Blue Card issued by a Schengen State , you can travel in the Schengen area ( actually , that 's usually the case with most residence permits issued by Schengen states , not only EU Blue Cards ) . Since the text spells out this restriction explicitly , it can be inferred that this right to travel to other member states does not apply to non-Schengen member states ( either as destinations or as blue card issuer ) . As of writing this , Bulgaria is not a " Member State applying the Schengen acquis in full " . ( " in full " means a member state that is part of the Schengen area , Bulgaria already applies part of the acquis , because it has to issue visas and performs border check to the Schengen standard but , as you probably know , it is not actually part of the border-free area . )
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
According to the <URL> , the phone has two versions : GSM 900 / 1800 GSM 850 / 1900 - US version Obviously you have the EU version ( GSM 900/1800 ) which will not work with the US networks which are ( GSM 850/1900 ) . For more information : <URL> .
end question
start question
Is maple syrup a food under US customs law ?
The CBP <URL> : You may bring bakery items and most cheeses into the United States . As a general rule , condiments , vinegars , oils , packaged spices , honey , maple syrup , coffee , fish , tea , and baby formula are admissible . and is classified as general food .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
For virtually all international airports , as long as you are on a single itinerary with your bags booked through , you will stay in the transit area and do not need to clear immigration or Customs . However , if you purchased separate tickets for the two legs , this does not apply : you will need to pass through Immigration ( which may require visas etc ) , collect your bags and check them back in . Unfortunately the United States is , as ever , the odd one out . Transits through the US always require the full Immigration/Customs rigmarole , full stop . In the original poster 's case , a <URL> , Canada from/to the US , they 'll need to pass through at least a " lite " version of Canada Immigration/Customs even if they connect on <URL> , although there are some <URL> for citizens of some countries resident in the US . EDIT : Updated after Doc 's entirely accurate comment .
Generally no , especially if you 're asking about academic studies : Is it permissible to enroll in school while in B-1 / B-2 status ? No , it is not . The regulations , at 8 CFR 214.2 ( b ) ( 7 ) , specifically prohibit study in the United States while in B-1 or B-2 status . Before enrolling in classes , individuals who are in B-1 or B-2 status must first acquire F-1 ( academic student ) or M-1 ( vocational student ) status . Enrolling in classes while in B-1 / B-2 status will result in a status violation . Individuals in B-1 or B-2 status , who have violated their nonimmigrant status by enrolling in classes , are not eligible to extend their B status or change to F-1 or M-1 status . These regulations provide no exceptions . <URL> However , allegedly there is a way kind of study legally provided that the course is short , limited to no more than 18 hours a week , and recreational . Requirements to Study on the B Visa Your course of study must be less than 18 hours per week . You must be studying for recreational purposes , not for academic credit . Evidence of sufficient funds to pay for all expected expenses for the duration of your visit . <URL>
I think you were disappointed because the most famous Lao dishes have become popular in Thailand and a lot of the food you find in Laos without a local to help is n't really Lao food but Thai , Vietnamese , Chinese , and French food . The most famous Lao dishes have to be larb and green papaya salad . I never saw these on offer in non-touristy Surat Thani in Thailand , but they were everywhere in Khao San in Bangkok and of course in Isan , which has a Lao ethnic majority . It turns out that all the stir fries you see in Laos are not Laotian . They 're all originally Chinese though some have come through Thailand 's cultural filter such as pad thai . The same for curries . The ones you see in Laos are due to Thai influence . The same word " gaeng " , which means " curry " in Thailand usually means " soup " in Laos . I do n't think French food has influenced Lao food greatly , it 's mainly stayed separate . But when I finally found where to buy local baguettes around the bus station , I barely recognized any of the ingredients . Apparently the main staple Laos regard as Lao food is the sticky rice ( <URL> ) . I thought I 'd had sticky rice before because some rice is stickier than other rice . But the sticky rice here comes in little woven pot/baskets , is super duper sticky almost like play doh . Here the staff in my guest house have it every day with a spicy salad , some raw leaf vegetable I ca n't identify , and some meat or fish . I 'm sure this is also in Thailand but again it 's a Lao ethnic food that you can get in Thailand - not a Thai food . But I 'm just a traveller sussing out the food here . I 'm no expert . Did you wander through the night market in Vientiane and see all this : One thing I found is a local dish similar to laksa of Malaysia/Singapore/Indonesia . I do n't know if it 's related or just a coincidence . It 's called <URL> : As an unexpected bonus a Lao who grew up here but lives in Thailand and has pretty good English has checked in to my hostel so we 're gon na wander around and I 'm gon na ask him about Lao food ( - :
It 's not any different in Israel . It will be hard for you to find a rental company that will rent to a driver under 21 . I 'm not sure it is at all possible . But , fortunately you 're going to Israel , not the US . Take a bus .
I am curious , though , if a US citizen could potentially * be prosecuted upon returning home for " breaking US laws while on foreign soil " . Yes . The U.S. maintains embargoes against <URL> . Many of these include travel restrictions . The U.S. government generally <URL> that U.S. citizens are liable for taxes , regardless of where they live . Many countries have tax treaties with the U.S. that in some cases reduces or eliminates this burden , but in general , if you are a U.S. citizen and you make enough money in a foreign country , the U.S. government will expect you to pay U.S. taxes . ( Here 's a Wall Street Journal blog entry on the subject : " <URL> " ) It is against U.S. law ( the <URL> ) to bribe foreign officials . I would also guess that the U.S. sometimes has jurisdiction in foreign countries . Obvious examples would be military bases and embassies , but perhaps also in matters pertaining to U.S.-registered ships and aircraft ( ?? ) . References <URL>
I just went through and looked up all the ratings . Below is the list of National Parks , sorted by rating and then by number of reviews as of September 1 , 2016 . * Glacier and Denali National Parks both stated 3.8 with no review count on the Google homepage , but 3.7 and review count when looking on Google Maps . I do not know why there is a discrepancy , but all other ratings are from the Google homepage .
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
An adult cicada will not shed its skin , rather a young nymph will shed it exoskeleton as it grows . Likely what you are talking about is the final shedding when the nymph emerges to become a winged adult cicada . I never knew cicada shells were popular in the USA ( they are in China ) as there are plenty of cicadas in the USA . You can bring a shell in * , as long as there are no body parts or debris left inside the shell . Agricultural agents are looking for any thing that might harbor eggs , larva or other insects . But that said , ultimately it is up to the agent inspecting your shell to allow it or destroy it . Being able to bring it in is not guaranteed , even if you meet all the rules . * Under 7 CFR 330.200 , " Biological specimens of plant pests , in preservative or dried , may be imported without further restriction under this part , but subject to inspection on arrival in the United States to confirm the nature of the material and freedom from risk of plant pest dissemination . "
Unless you 're completely fluent , you risk a miscommunication in a legal context . If you 're at all uncertain about communicating to them , you should ask for a translator . In your case , if you 're confident , there 's no harm in addressing them , but if they address you first in your language ( I 'm presuming English ) , it 's best to stick with that rather than changing . Your goal should generally be to only speak when spoken to , and to keep the conversation to a minimum . It 's more efficient for them , and prevents confusion overall .
Your principal concern will be with the airline . They can impose a variety of requirements , but these can vary from company to company . You can generally find information on the company 's web site , or , presumably , by calling the company 's customer service office . Transavia appears to have no special documentary requirements . For children from age 5 to age 11 , unaccompanied children must pay for and use the unaccompanied minor service ; from age 12 to age 15 , this service is optional . For sixteen and seventeen year olds , therefore , we can infer that the service is unavailable . You are probably also wondering about legal requirements imposed by the countries you 'll be traveling in . There appears to be no definite requirement in international , EU , or Dutch law . For example , from <URL> : Documents for minors In addition to their own valid passport or ID card , all children travelling : alone ; or with adults who are not their legal guardian ; or with only one parent may need an extra ( official ) document signed by their parents , second parent or legal guardian ( s ) authorising them to travel . There are no EU rules on this matter , each EU country decides whether or not it requires such documents . Check , before the child travels , the requirements of the country you are travelling both from and to : Here follows a " choose country " link that allows you to check the requirements for various European countries . This is followed by a disclaimer and some additional information : The European Commission is not responsible for the content of external websites Bear in mind that , even where a country does not require minors to carry such an authorisation to leave or enter its territory , other countries they transit through may still ask them to show one . When travelling by air it is highly recommended that you check with the airlines beforehand as many require such authorisations and have their own specific forms for this purpose . As each country 's rules may change without notice you are also encouraged to check with the authorities themselves or with the respective embassies or consulates . It is definitely a good idea to follow the above advice . Using the " choose country " link for Denmark , we find Other than their own valid travel document ( passport or ID card ) , no particular extra official document is required authorising minors of any EU country to enter or leave Denmark . For the Netherlands ( omitting some text irrelevant to your case ) : Other than their own valid travel document ( passport or ID card ) , no particular extra official authorisation is required for minors of any EU country to enter or leave the Netherlands . Finally , although it appears not to be required , it would not hurt anything to carry a letter signed by your parents or guardians stating that you are traveling with their permission . You could bring a photocopy of their passports or ID documents to support the authenticity of the letter . You would also want a copy of the document showing their relationship to you . This would normally be your birth certificate , but if they are adoptive parents or court-appointed guardians , it would be the adoption papers or a court order or the like .
No , you should not have to re-apply . From the <URL> Website : Your ESTA authorization is generally valid for multiple trips over a period of two years ( starting the date that you are approved ) or until your passport expires , whichever comes first * . This means that as long as you received an ESTA authorization to travel , you do not have to reapply during the validity period . If you are concerned , and assuming you will exit immigration and stay in the US before boarding your connecting flight , you can retrieve your application to check it 's validity and update your US address if necessary <URL> .
As a white , Christian , American person I can definitely say that nobody would ( perhaps should ) be offended by your dietary restrictions . I have a number of friends who are vegetarians for no reason other than they decided they wanted to be . In my opinion , that is far less sacrosanct than religious reasons , and I have always made sure to accommodate them when I cook . IMO it is rude to not consider your guests ' dietary restrictions . As CGCampbell pointed out , I would say something like " I am an observant Muslim and can not have pork or alcohol in my food . Would it be possible to make something that avoids those ingredients ? "
As noted elsewhere , you can not take the price of a single itinerary on a single route on a single date and make conclusions about rail travel on a single service compared to rail travel on an entire continent . Even if you could , it would not hold . I tried some bookings for 27 February at 0800 . Amtrak 's Acela Express would be $ 78 . SNCF quotes me 70 EUR ( ~ 96 USD ) for Paris to Brussels , DB quotes me 59 EUR ( ~ 81 USD ) for Hamburg to Berlin , and a Hikari train on the Tokaido Shinkansen from Shizuoka to Shinagawa is 6,180 JPY ( ~ 61 USD ) . But on a short trip like this , there is no reason to take the Acela , as the Northeast Regional is almost as fast , and would only cost $ 36 . But Amtrak costs what it does fundamentally because the price of transportation depends on supply and demand . While the balance can be distorted by things like subsidies , the constraints on both explain why a flight from DC to New York costs as much as a flight from DC to Los Angeles , even though it is only one-tenth the distance . And in this respect , Amtrak remains broadly competitive with other modes of transportation along the NEC . Ten years ago I never took Amtrak ; why would I when I could get from Downtown DC to Midtown Manhattan , door to door , within 3 hours , for $ 116 round trip on the Shuttle ? Nowadays , with more rigorous airport security , capacity reductions , higher fuel prices , and transit service cuts among things , I would allot at least 4 1/2 hours and $ 340 . To drive would also take 4-5 hours , and entail almost $ 60 in tolls and $ 50 in gasoline , plus the stress of driving I-95 and the New Jersey Turnpike and then finding parking . So Amtrak offering me a round trip for $ 260 is compelling . ( yes , there is the bus as well , but it 's as uncomfortable as the plane and as slow as Amtrak and as dangerous as driving , so naturally you should expect a discount . ) And while Amtrak does not practice price discrimination as ruthlessly as the airlines do , this may partly explain why your NLC-BOS ticket seems overpriced : they do n't want someone riding NLC-BOS if they can sell the same seat for more profit to a NYP-BOS passenger .
First , you did a good thing , there was no comeback , and so it 's all good . But I want to answer your more general question for other people in that situation , Many buffets have and explicit ' no leftovers no sharing ' policy , if they do n't make it explicit up front then they undoubtedly will if you start abusing the buffet . So while sneaking someone a few chicken wings ( or whatever ) may go unnoticed it becomes a slippery slope to feeding a ton of other people for free . And , if you 're caught , they will attempt to make you pay . If you get caught the best case is you pay for a buffet for an extra person , worst case -- if the buffet is included in the room rate -- you pay for an extra room . While I would have done what you did I would probably recommend other people to offer a little money to the towel boy , or offer to take him for breakfast somewhere else . The chances are the hotel knows about this and are OK with it , but it 's also possible that it 's a setup for a scam which is why it might be better to offer something else . But you should never feel unable to say no if it 's something you 're not comfortable with . I do n't want to sound boorish but it 's OK not to give if you do n't want to . I do n't imagine you 're the first person the boy has hit up for food , nor will you be the last . Similarly I 'd wager that he 's pretty used to being refused and it 's not going to affect him . Sure it might make you feel bad , but then I suspect that 's the point . You could try and address the larger problem ( that the hotel employees ? or hangers-on do n't make enough ) either via the hotel website or other review sites . But that 's not really what you asked . In short , if you want to help , offer some help in some other way , because sliding stuff off the buffet has potential to get you in a heap of trouble . But , if you do n't want to help , do n't be afraid to say no .
The prohibition applies to liquids , gels and aerosols . Since you describe the food as squidgy it will with very high probability be considered a gel and not pass . My advice is to take freeze dried camping foods in your hand luggage . Those are entirely dry and pass without any problems ( source : I do this all the time ) .
This appears to be amateur/hobby/pleasure ( no income ) for which only a B2 visa would be needed . B2 is one of the categories covered under the VWP . The more important question will be how to convince immigration that you are not intending to sell those photo 's afterwards . Immigration does not work on a presumption of innocence . Signing up for a photography course ( not as part of a format study program ) might help show your amateur status , yet is compatible with B2/VWP .
There is no such thing as a " tourist " Schengen visa . Indeed , you wo n't find any information about " categories " of short stay visas in the regulation because there are only three types of Schengen visas : short stay visas , airport transit visas ( which do not allow the holder to get out of the airport ) and limited territorial validity visa ( for special cases including some refugees or diplomats ; you wo n't get one without knowing ) . All regular short stay Schengen visas cover a range of different purposes , including attending conferences . On the other hand , lying on the application ( i.e. pretending you are going to do some tourism when you want to attend a conference ) is obviously not OK . But if you hold a multiple-entry visa and already used it for the trip you mentioned in the application , then it 's completely fine to use it for other purposes . Be aware that border guards can check that you fulfil the conditions of your visa at any time and therefore inquire about your income , purpose , etc. when crossing the border , even though you had to explain all this to get the visa in the first place . So it 's good to have documents to establish the purpose of your trip in case someone asks . See <URL> to know what those documents are in your case . See also <URL> <URL> or <URL> for detailed explanations of what you can and can not do with a Schengen visa in a range of related situations .
While my experience may be a bit outdated , I 'll share it anyway . I went with my then girlfriend , now wife about 4 years ago and did the whole Disney resort/dining plan at the all-star music resort . As far as things being off limits on the menu , alcohol was the only thing off limits . We were initially concerned that it did n't include more than 2 meals a day . That turned out to be not a problem at all , quite the opposite actually . Included in each sit down meal was an appetizer , entrée , dessert , and drink ( there was enough to feed 4 ) . It also included gratuity . I 'd recommend doing a bit of research as some of the more popular restaurants can be booked months or even a year in advance and its best to plan out your dining destinations and call ahead . I always recommend the meal plan option as it relieves a lot of the monetary stress associated with vacationing and you get to experience some unique food and people .
end question
start question
What should I expect when I stay in a hotel ?
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
Like American Thanksgiving , Canadian Thanksgiving is largely a family affair . You wo n't find outdoor celebrations , fireworks displays , or anything like that to the same extent that you would on July 1st or Victoria Day . However there can be major events coinciding with Thanksgiving . If you happen to be in Kitchener , Ontario , you can take part in the <URL> ( the biggest being Munich of course ) with a parade , massive beer tents , barrel racing , and more schnitzel and sauerkraut than you know what to do with . Canadian Thanksgiving is also somewhat tied to harvest celebrations , so you will find farming and pumpkin related events going on . Here 's <URL> . A lot of things will be closed on the Monday . Schools and anything government-related , supermarkets and most stores . Some restaurants close but some do not . Most tourist-related things are open , although bear in mind this is outside the tourist season for many parts of Canada . Here is <URL> . TL ; DR What 's open ? No government , few stores , some restaurants , most tourism . But check .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
Better for What ? Which school is better ? This is a query which has been keeping us awake at night since the concept of " teaching " was first concocted . The answer is obviously : there is no point is asking yourself , or others , which is the best school , without first deciding the criteria on which to base such a qualitative and , more importantly , subjective judgement . The word " best " per se has no meaning . Teaching and Training Styles The only criteria that really matters in my opinion is the teaching method . After all , an effective teaching method that suits one 's forma mentis and abilities is paramount for effective learning . When it comes to diving schools , the teaching method is intrinsically linked with the target demographics . So the question then becomes : what are you looking to get out of diving ? Is this going to be a one-off experience ? Do you just want to give it a try ? Are you doing this purely for seasonal leisure , i.e. something once every so often when you are by the seaside ? Or do you plan on making diving your primary hobby ? Turns out diving is such a complex , and somewhat unnatural activity , that there 's probably no way of knowing before trying . You might argue that this is true for most unknown things in life . However underwater breathing is something that humans are n't meant to do , and thus diving carries an inherent psychological stress , which is unique to it . There is no way to know how you will react to the regulated breathing , the water above you , the abyss below you , the depth , the potential claustrophobia , before trying . PADI Didactics Why do I mention the demographics ? In my opinion the objective of PADI has always been to get as many people as possible to scuba dive for fun . This is achieved by initiating divers with ( very ) short Open Water courses which , upon completion , allow you to dive up to a depth of 18m accompanied by a Divemaster or higher . Short means that it is not uncommon to knock out the full course , including theory , confined and open water practice , in three days during a week long stay in a holiday camp . This raises the question on how much understanding , and mastery , one might gain in such a short time . Then again , the PADI Open Water is aimed at the aforementioned seasonal leisure divers , which will most probably always dive with clubs in tourist villages , on simple fish-watching shallow dives . Nothing wrong with that . Local Federations Other diving schools and federations , on the other hand , target enthusiasts who wish to learn diving to gain competence over the discipline . These are people who might think of turning diving into their main year-round hobby . BSAC is an example of such a school . CMAS is another . The former is the main British scuba association . The latter is a confederation of local diving schools across the world , which abide by the same regulations and teaching syllabi . The objective of these schools is in my opinion to form qualified competent divers , rather than to get everyone in the water as fast as possible . For completeness sake , I am a CMAS 3 * diver and BSAC Assistant Instructor . I have also tried the PADI system indirectly by assisting during an Advanced course . So yes I speak from personal experience and might indeed be biased . Compare Syllabi Having said this , you will most probably find the syllabi of the various Open Water comparable courses across different schools , as well as the mutual equivalences and recognition between them . These should already give you an indication of the amount of learning and dedication required to complete the course . This in turn is representative of the quality of the courses , in terms of competence levels and goals . I remember learning the mechanics and physics inside the workings of a regulator during my CMAS 1 * ( first level ) course . I do not recall reading about it on the PADI Open Water manual . Whether this knowledge is useful to a first level diver is all up to you -- the student -- and it depends on where your interest in diving comes from . BSAC Equivalences <URL> mentions the equivalence between PADI and BSAC certifications : For example -- divers transferring from PADI : PADI Open Water or Advanced Open Water Similar to : BSAC Ocean Diver Progress to : BSAC Sports Diver PADI Rescue Diver Similar to : Sports Diver Progress to : Dive Leader <URL> is the full document in PDF . <URL> has a more comprehensive breakdown of equivalences between diving agencies . Remember to contact your club for more precise information . My Personal Opinion Finally , any answer to this question will carry a heavy opinion-based component . So here is mine . I have trained in Italy and France with CMAS . All my CMAS instructors made me feel safe . They were competent and looked like they were in control of everything . And that 's the most important thing in my opinion when doing something potentially life-threatening . I found BSAC a bit too pedantic in their breaking-everything-into-baby-steps
I did something similar in late 2012 . I used Airbnb , there are plenty of landlords offering long term stay and it 's significantly cheaper than hotels . It also allows you to stay in the neighbourhood you want to find an apartment in . Try to find a location near a tube stop so you can go to job interview better . East London , like Bethnal Green , has very good rates and it 's easy to reach other parts of town .
In 2009 , in an act of stupidity , corruption and bad faith , the brazilian governament created a new standard that 's different from all other countries in the world : This image shows the brazillian standard at the bottom and the number of countries ( países , in red ) that use each other standard . That said , it is still very common to find the american standard ( second one ) and mainly the " universal " plug ( last one ) . Actually the most common is to find a plug using the universal without the ground port , so you 'd need an adapter anyway . Post 2009 buildings are required to use the new standard , while older buildings were not required to change existing plugs , so it does n't depend on where you go ( São Paulo/Rio or the rest ) , but when the hotel was created/renovated . That is such a hassle that every hotel must be prepared to have adapters for their guests , I would n't worry if I my things use the american standard , but I guess I would buy one adapter to the american or universal or brazilian standard if using the other standards .
Sure . Stick to downtown and/or midtown Detroit during the day , or if you 're going to a specific event , go there and do n't venture too far away . Downtown/midtown encompasses the Woodward/Jefferson area , Tiger Stadium , Cobo Hall , The Joe , etc. . There are plenty of festivals this time of year downtown ( at least their used to be ) . Be prepared to see homeless people or people down on their luck . Police are pretty concentrated around the downtown area b/c that 's where the tourists visit . You 're fine there during the day , probably during the evening as well . If I were just visiting , I 'd stick to the downtown area , there is n't much else to see outside of that . Typically the worst things that happen there are phone snatchings b/c of people mindlessly talking/texting and a very fast runner will do a snatch and grab . Like I said though , if you 're aware of your surroundings you should be able to avoid most of those situations . This should go w/out saying , but stay out of any neighborhoods . Most are n't as bad as you see in the media , but you do n't want to take chances . Obviously do n't put yourself in bad situations such as pumping gas in the middle of the night at a dimly lit gas stations . Suburbs are a different story , though do n't think you 're exempt from violence anywhere , there are different police in the ' burbs and they tend to respond a bit quicker out there for various reasons . Do n't believe the news about Detroit , yeah , it 's bad , however there are greats neighborhoods here w / people who care about their communities . That being said , it was easier to list the places you should go rather than where you should avoid . Even w / GPS , the one thing you do n't want to do is get lost somewhere , Detroit or otherwise . The majority of things to see that are actually in Detroit are downtown , unless you 're doing missionary work or a documentary or something similar .
There are many exchange places , both in airports and in city proper . Technically and officially they all are bank branches , but often it consists of an exchange office only . The airport exchange rates are not the best , though if you are not changing lots of money , probably the price difference will not be worth your time . You can withdraw rubles from ATMs ( and certainly you can pay by card , which is widely possible ; in fact , you will not need much cash ) , unless your bank prohibits this ; check with your bank in advance . Also find out the fees they could charge and the exchange rate they would apply ; you may find the exchange rate quite decent . ( Only beware that exchange rate changes daily or even hourly , so compare exchange rate of bank with current Moscow exchange rate . ) In fact , I do n't know about French card in Russia , but in opposite situation ( Russian card in Europe ) , I often find it to be the best rate to simply pay by card wherever possible , and withdraw from ATM if I need cash .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
Pressure is going to be basically the same as the passengers enjoy , as the entire fuselage is pressurized . The only real difference will be temperature , as the cargo hold area is not usually heated to any great degree unless the aircraft is transporting live animals or cold sensitive perishable items . The cold section of the cargo hold may drop down to 10C ( give or take a few degrees ) , but they would n't let it drop below freezing as they do n't want bottled liquids in suitcases freezing solid .
It 's hard to agree with Mhche 's answer here . Unless you have a very limited number of places you want to visit and are just going to take a few trips to the larger towns or villages along the coast , I would strongly advice against using public transport . Even if the buses travel fairly regularly through the " suburbs " of Rhodes City and to some extent down the east coast , at least to Lindos and Gennadi , the time tables for the villages on the west coast and in the interior parts of the island are very sparse . From Monolithos , there is e.g. just one bus in the morning going to Rhodes City and another bus in the late afternoon going from Rhodes and back , of course only Mo-Fr . This is the case for several other villages as well , if they have a bus connection at all . At least between Rhodes City and Lindos , the main road on the east coast is not particularly close to the coast . If you want to go the beaches or see any of the spots along the coast , expect to leave the bus at the main road and walk the rest . Bus tickets are more expensive than the 3 euros mentioned by Mhche . Travelling from Rhodes City , expect to pay about 5 $ to Lindos or 10 $ to the south of the island . Taxis are also rather expensive on Rhodes . A taxi from Rhodes City to Lindos will cost about 60 $ , to the southern parts of the island expect to pay more than 100 $ . Unless ordered and agreed upon in advance , do n't expect to find available taxis " on command " in the rural parts of the island . Do n't expect the bus drivers to speak English . The traffic is not that bad on Rhodes , so alternatives to renting a car could be to rent a bike or moped . With some luck , you may get a bike for 5 $ / day and a moped for 10 $ / day . But even the coastal roads can be quite hilly , so do n't underestimate riding a bike in the warm Rhodes weather :)
The problem with dirty clothes is they will take huge space when packing them again ( if not done correctly ) , logically the clothes are the same but after packing the dirty ones the space is not enough . Usually this is due to packing them in an ugly way like the ways you mentioned ( ball them or putting them in shoe bags ) . The best thing I have always been doing and it always worked and I never had space problem is by folding them as if they were clean , then put them in a plastic bag , squeeze the air out of the plastic bag and seal it . Squeezing the air will make it less bulky . This way you will not need more space than what you needed when you first packed them and it will not mix with your new clothes and smell ( if available ) will not spread all over the bag . If no plastic bag available you can do the same with a laundry bag ( usually available in the cupboards in hotels ) . Anyway , putting clothes in a plastic bag and squeezing the air out is also good idea for clean clothes to save space .
Not really . As discussed in <URL> , implants are very common and security is used to dealing with them . In short : If it 's picked up by the metal detector or full-body scanner , you can tell them what you have and where it is . They 'll use a hand scanner to verify , and you 're clear . If it 's not picked up , you have no problem .
Paddington is fine - not only that , it 's even smart ! You have several options from there : the Heathrow Express . 15 min to the airport . They say there 's that length transfer , but if you 're in a hurry you 'll beat that . naturally transport fails . If the Express is down , sometimes the regular trains are still running overground . This only takes about 10 minutes longer , from memory ( see my link at the end ) and is nearly half the price . The Tube ! If the overground option is out , you can take the tube down to Earl 's Court , switch ( 2 min transfer ) and take the Picadilly line out to the airport . Buses - there are buses to Hammersmith and buses from there out to the airport , but by now you 're getting desparate ... Taxi - last resort as they 'll be expensive , but you can get the taxi from right outside the station and they 'll drop you at Terminal 3 . They 'll also know the fastest way - London Black Cab taxi drivers are like if Einstein studied traffic logistics . Seriously . There are quite a few places around Paddington to stay - within minutes - from hostels to hotels . There are also pubs , a few small restaurants and some take-outs . On the Hammersmith and City line you can even get around to Westfield Mall in not too long . Finally , I mentioned a link - two actually - <URL> and <URL> . They 'll tell you exactly how long it 'll take - even differentiating between terminals at Heathrow , and can be configured to reduce walking time and so on . Good luck !
To start with , you should ask the company before you pay . On the other hand , it really depends which area of the world you are going to . Law and customs are quite different in different areas of the world . Whereas in the western countries I would expect the operator to have some basic level of insurance cover for accidents , I would expect exactly the opposite in most of the developing countries . You still should double check with the company ( guide ) to make sure that the level of cover is satisfactory for you .
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
You should not apply for a tourist visa , but apply for an " <URL> " instead . You ask the EuroPython to send you an invitation letter and then use that to <URL> . The <URL> should be in Italian .
Based upon what you wrote , you should create an account at <URL> and use it to apply for a ' <URL> ' . Your husband does not qualify as a family sponsor , so you would fill out the form like in this image ... <URL> Should i book tickets before the visa will that make any difference on the decision ? It is a very bad idea to purchase tickets in advance of a visa application . It tells the decision-maker that you did not read <URL> and probably do not understand the rules . You also undergo the risk of cancelling tickets in the event your application is not successful or it takes a long time for them to reach a decision . Here 's a screen shot of the relevant <URL> ... <URL> And finally , in the remarks section of the form , you put down that you are visiting your husband and include his entry clearance number . If you have problems substantiating your marriage , then use ' partner ' everywhere . Your husband / ' partner ' should write a letter to the consulate supporting your visit ( naming you as wife or partner ) and you should include it with your application . They prefer wet signatures if possible . It 's ok to explain in the remarks section why you do not have a license as long as the explanation is reasonable .
Basically it means you pay less money if you book the room weeks or months in advance . But note that such a rate usually means you have to pay a fee if you cancel or change the booking at any time , while paying the regular rate usually allows cancelling or changing the booking for free up to a day or two before .
Both cities are really interesting destinations . The question to distinct between the two is whether or not you like tourist spots . Bruges is the more touristic city of the two . Personally I would go ofr Ghent and do a day trip to Bruges . But the other way around is perfectly possible . However if you really would like to escape the crowds , go to Lier or Hasselt . No tourists and really pearls to visit .
end question
start question
Does the bus Monte Amiata Scalo → Montalcino stop at Castelnuovo dell ' Abate ?
Finally , I went there , so I can now assure that the bus really stops there . I discovered that , in general , buses from <URL> do have many more stops than the ones showed at the timetables that you can find at the company website . This bus stop is ideal to go from Montalcino to the Sant ' Antimo abbey by walk , a very nice stroll , and then return to Montalcino by bus .
Following my own advice from my answer to <URL> , I looked on the <URL> : A minifleet of four or five buses run by different companies departs at noon for Istanbul ( US$ 40 , 27 hours ) via the border at Sarpi , Hopa , Rize They leave from the second bus terminal : Ortachala bus station ( 753433 ; Gulia 1 ) is something of a backwater , about 2.5 km southeast of the Old Town .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Update : I did the trip ( August 2012 ) in the opposite direction . See below for details . It seems it can be done , but it ai n't no picknick . I 'm yet undecided as to whether I 'll do the trip , but the below seem to be the options . Note that the Scandinavia group ( though still running a website ) has n't operated at least since 2009 . Kampala to Lusaka by bus and train Kampala to Dar by bus , via Nairobi . 30 - 40 hours . Dar to Kapiri Mposhi ( ZM ) by train . ( There do n't seem to be scheduled direct busses , but I 'm not sure . ) 45 - 50 hours . Kapiri Mposhi to Lusaka by bus . 3 hours . That 's five travel days , with a night 's stopover to recover in Dar . Trains only go once a week ( on Friday ) . And a visa for Kenya is required . Kampala to Lusaka by bus Update : the road between Sumbawanga and Mbala is so bad , there is very little traffic and no public transport on this route . I updated the itinerary below . Kampala to Bukoba ( TZ ) by bus . 6 hours . Operator : Friends Safaris . Bukoba to Kigoma by bus . 15 - 17 hours . Kigoma to Mpanda by bus . 10 hours ? Mpanda to Sumbawanga by bus . 7 hours . Sumbawanga to Mbeya by bus . 7 hours . Mbeya to Tunduma ( ZM ) by bus . 2 hours . Tunduma to Lusaka by bus . 18 hours ? Six travel days , but sleeping in actual beds , whatever the state , every night . Annoyingly , not all connections are daily . Parts by ferry There 's a ferry running between Kigoma ( TZ ) and Mpulungu ( ZM ) on Lake Tanganyika . It takes a good two days , but only runs once every two weeks . It 's also theoretically possible to do Kampala to Mwanza ( TZ ) by boat on Lake Victoria . This takes about a day but is n't really practical for onwards travel . Update : Lusaka to Kampala ( August 2012 ) Day 1 Lusaka to Kapiri Mposhi by bus . Mazhandu is the better bus company , more reliable , cleaner , less crowded , but also less frequent . If you do n't want to have to take the 6am bus , but , say , the 8am , you have to go with Euro-Africa . Both charge 60000ZMK . Mazhandu takes reservations , you can pay in advance with Euro-Africa , but I 'm not convinced this constitutes a booking . So arrive in time . Kapiri Mposhi bus station to New Kapiri Mposhi train station by taxi . It 's walkable , at only a few kilometers , but the huge hassle at the bus station , mostly an overly busy tract of land , means there is something to say for taking a cab . Watch your stuff . 10000ZMK is reasonable for the trip . New Kapiri Mposhi to Mbeya by train . You can reserve the ticket at the TAZARA office on Lusaka , but there , they only sell tickets to Dar . The ticket needs to be picked up and paid for in New Kapiri Mposhi . 115000ZMK . Note that directly after crossing into Tanzania , paying in Zambian Kwacha on the train becomes difficult . You arrive on the next day , not unlikely a few hours late . You could take the train onwards to Dar , from where you can take a bus to Kampala which goes through Kenya ( Kampala coach ) or one which goes around lake Victoria directly to Uganda ( try Friends Safari , they should be able to hook you up , the contact details I had were soaked by ... a bucket of fish in one bus ' luggage rack ) . Or , from Dar , you could find your way to Mwanza , from where it 's possible to get on a cargo boat to Kampala or a bus or boat to Bukoba , from where you can connect to Kampala . If you are traveling through Mpanda ( like I did ) , you could get off the train at the border , in Tunduma . This , because traveling from Mbeya to Mpanda , you 'd be retracing your steps , going through Tunduma again . Getting off in Tunduma would save you perhaps a total of six hours , but requires you to stay in the somewhat dodgy border town . And getting on a bus toward Mpanda from Tunduma might be tricky . Day 3 The train from Kapiri Mposhi is an overnighter . In Mbeya , it 's possible to take a bus to Tabora , which is an awfully long ride , from where you could get to Mwanza , from where you could get to Kampala by cargo ship , or Bukoba by bus , from where you can get to Kampala by bus . I took a bus to Sumbawanga with Sumry . Up to Tunduma , the road is fine , but after that , it 's 225km of dirt road , all the way to Sumbawanga . The ride takes about 9 hours and costs 18000TZS . The bus has rows of 5 seats , is oversold , meaning some people have to stand , and every nook and cranny is stuffed with goods . I get a bottle of soda , a bottle of water and four biscuits from Sumry ( the only time this happened on the whole trip ) . But there are no rest stops , except for a break in the middle of nowhere where everyone went to pee or poo in the bushes . It 's possible to get to Mpanda from Mbeya straight , at 32000TZS , but that 's an extra 6-7 hours . If you break in Sumbawanga , stay at the lovely and affordable Moravian Church Conference Center ( no , I 'm not religious ) . Day 4 Get your ticket onwards as early as possible . On arrival , I got the last seat on the next day 's bus for Mpanda , at 14000TZS , from Sumry , for this 6.5 hour journey . Still , over half a dozen passengers had to stand . We stopped once for peeing in the bushes , once for
It 's bureaucratic and complicated . ( It 's India ! ) Each of the sites has a ticket , plus there 's also a levy , and you need to pay both to get in . Each ticket is valid for one entry to that site only , and seems to be standardized at Rs 250 per site . The levy varies in value between Rs 10 and 500 , but if you pay the maximum levy for the Taj Mahal , it 's valid everywhere else as well for the same day only . Examples : You visit the Taj Mahal in the morning and Agra Fort in the afternoon . You need to pay Rs 250 for the Taj Mahal ticket , Rs 250 for the Agra Fort ticket , and Rs 500 for the combined levy , for a total of 1000 rupees . You visit the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort on separate days . Like case 1 , you still need to pay Rs 750 for the Taj ticket and its levy plus Rs 250 for the Agra Fort , but since your levy only covers one day you now need to fork out additional 50 rupees for the Agra Fort 's levy , total 1050 rupees . Rendered insane by heatstroke , you decide to skip the Taj Mahal and only visit the Fort and Fatehpur Sikri . You pay Rs 250 each for tickets plus levies of Rs 50 and Rs 10 respectively , a total of 560 rupees .
As of 2016 , the manned passport checks at Prague airport were replaced with boarding pass scanners . As a matter of fact , I did n't once have to show an ID flying PRG-BCN today . Therefore the question is now moot .
You are actually asking two separate questions : When my cruise ship stops in Victoria , will the Canadian border people let me come into the country for a day visit without a passport ? When my cruise ship , which was at least briefly in another country , returns to the USA and I want to get off it ( probably in Alaska for some day activities , but very certainly in Seattle when you want to return to your home ) will I be allowed into the United States without a passport ? There was a time when US citizens could come into Canada without a passport , with drivers licenses and such like . It 's possible that at the cruise terminal you could get by with less than a passport . Here is <URL> . Note the birth certificate to prove US citizenship along with the drivers license to prove you are the person named on the birth certificate . If your name has changed since you were born you 'll need paperwork to establish the identity chain . I would n't risk it myself , but the worst case here is that you are n't allowed to go have your day trip . US citizens do n't need visas to visit Canada , but without a passport , how do the border people know you 're a US citizen ? It 's not a requirement for boarding cruise ships , getting drivers licenses , and so on . The second case is much more serious . You want to be sure you will be let back in . Current rules say that <URL> , even if it stops in other countries . Essentially they are trusting the cruise ship not to take on random passengers in the foreign ports and help them enter the US . That said , they still recommend you have a passport just to make life smoother . ( Here 's <URL> - you can probably find a similar page on the site of the cruise provider you 're considering . ) So if there is a reason why just getting a passport is n't an option , the cruise is n't impossible ( US businesses have found ways to deal with the fact people just wo n't get passports ) but life will be smoother if you have one . I 'd recommend getting one .
There is a map which shows all destinations which can be reached from a city at <URL> .
<URL> shows the C12 route taking 57 minutes ( and 15 stops ) , traveling more directly west-east . <URL> also shows an alternative route , the S10 train to a connection with the C10 bus in Como , which takes about 2 hours . Its <URL> that shows the numerous stops and includes towns that document the 1-hour route ( such as Cima , Porlezza , Croce ) . The <URL> is in effect between 9 June to 11 September ; winter schedule begins on 12 September ( through 8 June ) . To interpret the abbreviations used on the schedule : Scol are those that run on school days ( scolastici ) , which include Saturdays . Fer6 means buses that run Monday-Saturday ( all six feriale or working days ) ; Fer5 are for buses that run Monday-Friday . Fest indicates Sunday and national holidays ( festivo ) . Gior is every day or daily ( giornaliero ) .
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
No . At an unplanned refuelling stop , the crew will be focused exclusively on landing , getting fuel on board , and taking off again . There will not be disembarkation services , including no jet bridge , no ramp bus , no barriers set up to guide you to immigration , etc. . Unless there is a medical emergency , you 're not getting off the plane .
It seems that it needs a full page , I figured this out by searching for Laos visa photos in google . It always showed a full page visa except for older visas where it was a stamp . I guess you will end up with two empty pages :)
Michigan specific information Michigan does have a section of law regarding traffic control areas . This mostly deals with crosswalks at signals , but portions of it refer to crosswalks in general . See <URL> which deals with disabled individuals crossing at any crosswalk , not just signal locations . There is also a <URL> which is very broad . It simply requires that it was designated by regulation to be a school crossing . Children have the right away and vehicles must stop . Finally , the definition of a crosswalk in Michigan is setup in <URL> which states that the crosswalk is any designated walkway for pedestrian crossing . Your mileage may vary with regards to getting a ticket for entering a crosswalk , but I would not take the risk . Outside of putting others in danger , there is a very real chance that these statutes apply to you as the driver even if there is not a specific law that says so much in one sentence . If you run into the unfortunate circumstance that a person is injured or killed by your vehicle , even if the crosswalk is in the middle of the block , the prosecutor will likely use the above statutes to press charges . The best thing you can do is to stop for pedestrians in such situations . In Michigan , it may be a legal grey area , but in reality , it is the right thing to do . Original Answer ( the question used to ask for a general driving rule in the United States ) As a general rule , states give pedestrians the right of way when in any marked crosswalk or while crossing at any intersection ( marked or unmarked ) . Many states , including my home state of Minnesota , set up sting operations where the police will secretly watch a corner and hire a pedestrian to walk out into the crosswalk . If a motorist does not stop , they will be issued a ticket . Failing to stop for a walker where " zebra stripes " are present , even in the case that the stripes are in the middle of a roadway ( not at a corner ) , is usually grounds for a fine . In most jurisdictions , one must assume that failing to stop for a pedestrian is a ticketable offence . Here are a few example laws for your reference . It would be too much to list every state and local jurisdiction . <URL> <URL> <URL>
The state run transport company , <URL> has very good well maintained a/c buses to Goa from Bangalore . You can check the availability and book tickets online from their website . Make sure to select service class as ' Premium ' to get a/c buses in your search results . Since Goa being a well known tourist place and April-June is summer vacation , it is advisable to book tickets in advance . Or plan your journey on week days .
I ca n't prove a negative , but as far as I can tell by looking at the sites of A-Line and Marix , the answer is no , they do n't offer any sort of hop-on-hop-off ticket , nor do you get any " stopovers " if you buy a longer ticket . There 's a third option from Amami to Kagoshima , the once-weekly <URL> via the tiny and obscure <URL> ( long on my personal to-do list ) , but this costs even more at & yen ; 11,620 one-way .
The <URL> has its own home page where it lists the <URL> ( dead link ) in a downloadable Excel spreadsheet . ( Different routes are listed in different " sheets " within the spreadsheet so switch using the tabs at the bottom . ) There 's <URL> ( you need to switch to the " Fare Stage " tab ) . Perhaps not the most intuitive way but at least you have the information in some form . Usually , people at bus stops will be happy to help you out with information on what bus route to take ( if they speak English , that is ) . Another pertinent point is that given Delhi 's traffic , it 's highly unlikely that the bus schedule will be helpful . <URL> , do n't expect the buses to turn up or reach their destination on time .
How does it work ? You go and stay in the queue for the taxi , usually just outside the terminal . When it 's your turn , you get inside the taxi and tell the driver your destination . And than you ride in ( sometimes smelly ) taxi for a while ( for a long while ) and eventually you get to your destination . How can I recognize it ? You wo n't miss it . There will be signs with directions , as well as the sign where the queue starts . Also , there is usually quite a lot of people queuing for the taxi . How can I recognize a legit taxi ? Although it never happened to me , some people may ask you if you need a taxi INSIDE the airport terminal . Avoid them , they are not legit . Head to the exit , search for a man or a woman with a little printer and dressed in uniform . ( credits to @Napolux for the information ) Once you are in official taxi queue you do n't really have to worry about taxi being legit , but you can still check taxi medallion . It will look similar to this and will be attached to the bonnet ( aka hood if you are American ) of the car . Additionally , there will be numbers inside of the taxi . <URL> You can check the number here : <URL> How much will it cost to take the taxi from JFK to Manhattan ? Is there a fixed fare ? There is a fixed fare , JKF to Manhattan is $ 52 + tolls + tips . Payable by card or cash .
<URL> : Budapest Franz Liszt International Airport ... is the country 's largest airport , located about 16 km ( 10 mi ) southeast of the city centre . Budapest Airport is notoriously hard to get in and out of . While a train connection between the city and the terminal has been built , it only served Terminal 1 , which is now defunct , and the currently used Terminal 2 is an at least 10 mins drive away , on the very other side of the airport . Public transportation between the city and airport requires changing from bus to rail or metro and takes between 40 mins to an hour . There is a single and long two-lane road connecting the city and Ferihegy , and it unsurprisingly gets congested at peak times , especially on the way to the airport , so bear this in mind and depart for the airport early ( at least an hour before the boarding time to make sure you clear security ) . Of course , you mention you 're travelling at night , so traffic would be less . And you 're wondering specifically about going from Kőbánya-Kispest . <URL> , would seem to indicate 16-24 minutes travel time from Kőbánya-Kispest to the airport . I played with it a bit and traffic seems to start to increase after 6am , but you should be at the airport well before that , especially if it 's an international flight .
I arrive in Frankfurt Hahn airport ( a good 90mins drive from the city ) at 9:15 PM . No worries ! The HHN airport is indeed far from Frankfurt , but the connections are not that bad . Just take the 10.30 pm bus . Ticket for an adult is 15 $ ( 14 $ if you buy it online ) . You find the bus schdules via the airport 's official site : <URL> . Click Frankfurt on the map and <URL> opens ( <URL> ) . September 29 is Tuesday , and the last departures from the airport are : ( Note that departures at/after midnight are shown in the next day 's -- in this case Wednesday 's -- timetable . )
Information about Russian trains schedules can be found at the <URL> : Train # 006Ь Moscow - Ulan-Bator departure at 21:35 every Wednesday , Thursday , arrival at 06:30 every Monday , Tuesday . Stop in Irkutsk at 23:25 every Sunday , Monday respectively . Train Fares <URL> departure at 17:15 every day , arrival at 06:10 . About buses from Ulan-Ude - there are some talks at local forums that buses are really go , every day , and during summer even more than one , but information is from 2009 year , and ca n't find any newer . Buses ( they said ) departure at 10-00 , and after 8-9 hours you are in Ulan-Bator , but ca n't find official link for it .
end question
start question
Is four hours enough time to get to Portland from PDX and back ?
The Red MAX takes 44 minutes from Pioneer Square to the airport . Source : <URL> . So that 's 1.5 hrs . Security wait times you can predict from <URL> . Let 's put that to 20 minutes . Actually you need to get off the plane and get out . I 'd put that to another 20-30 minutes . We are at the 2.5 hrs mark . You need to wait for the Max , walk in the airport , your layover is a bit shorter because you need to be there by boarding and not leaving . So , you can make it to Moonstruck on Alder street , have a decent hot chocolate and then go back . Sightseeing , not so much . I certainly would rather than sitting at the airport . Moonstruck hot chocolate is one of the better ones on this coast , you need to go as far as Vancouver , BC to have better . ( Or if you have broader horizons , Eataly in New York is best . )
She will need to apply for a non-immigrant visa just like an adult Russian would , using the <URL> form , which is done <URL> . She will be required to go to an interview and have her fingers scanned as part of the application process . Below 14 years children travelling with a parent ( who has their own visa ) or a school group , would be <URL> . Regarding the actual flying-there part , <URL> by the airlines for the purposes of solo travel . The unaccompanied minor programs are really designed for kids up to about 11 - they basically nanny the kid the whole way until hand-over . You CAN register 12-17 year olds as unaccompanied minors if you think such treatment is warranted . In this case , at 16 , I ca n't think of anything worse . There are <URL> of 12-17 year olds getting hassled for travelling alone by either airline staff or immigration , mainly due to incompetence and not knowing the rules . You should definitely make sure she has a parental consent letter allowing the solo travel , signed by both parents . This will not only smooth over these bumps should they occur , but may be required by Russian emigration laws ( see Robert 's link in comments ) . Good luck !
There is a thread on <URL> discussing exactly this topic . Which refers to 2 bus lines that offer service between Belize and Santa Helena/Flores/Tikal in Guatemala . Express Buses -- Flores / Belize / Chetumal Two Guatemalan bus companies , San Juan Express Bus Service and Linea Dorada , provide bus service between Flores , Belize City and Chetumal ; they do not make any other scheduled stops in Belize . In Belize City , buses arrive at and depart from the Belize City Water Taxi / Marine Terminal on North Front Street near the Swing Bridge . Buses operate on Sundays and public holidays . Not all buses are air-conditioned . The schedule below was in effect on 20 December 2007 but always confirm times before travel . The thread is from back in 2008 so information is a bit dated but I was able to find the companies <URL> seem to offer a stop in Belize but on <URL> and it may not work for you timewise , the other seems to be discussed at length on <URL> and not under the best of terms . There is a sort of <URL> information on which I ca n't verify but it gives you some contact information for both companies listed above so you can check prices and schedules as needed . One other company that is mentioned in the <URL> is <URL> , which actually does offer a shuttle from Belize to Flores for $ 28 the only thing is I ca n't seem to find the schedule of when it leaves Belize but you can try contacting them to check .
The answer is yes , as long as you do n't consider a taxi to be a car , and you do n't mind missing some of the interesting things in the area . A caveat first : it 's been ten years since I spent much time in Portland ( I lived in Boston , would make occasional day trips or lunchtime stops on my way to/from other parts of Maine ) . Things might have changed . As a car-free tourist in Portland , you will want to stay in the <URL> area . Lots of shops and restaurants , a few parks that I see on the <URL> but have n't visited , and plenty of chain hotels . I remember this area as moderately hilly : nothing like San Francisco , but maybe 50 ' up and down as you get close to the water . The <URL> is a couple of miles away from the Old Port . I remember this as an industrial area , only seen from the interstate , so do n't think you 'd want to walk from there even if you were n't pregnant . However , getting a cab should n't be a problem . But ... the Old Port is n't the only thing to see in the Portland area . Probably not something that matters if you 're just planning an overnight trip . But for a longer stay , I 'd want to go visit lighthouses , or maybe head down to Old Orchard Beach . Or go up to Freeport , the home of L.L. Bean and one of the nicest-looking outlet malls you 'll ever see . * And as a bonus for travelers , the <URL> , with its <URL> , is on the way to Freeport . * It 's a real town , and the residents would be offended by that comment , but it 's a town that 's based on commerce . That said , it 's commerce that has been forced to look like a New England village ; even the MegaBurger chain looks like a colonial house ( and it 's on the outskirts of town ) . There are also a surprising number of local establishments amongst the chains .
Well according to <URL> : The nearest Cambodian town is Stung Treng , and the border is a 90-minute speedboat or bus ride away . Note that the border is lightly used , with almost no onward public transport available at the border ( therefore book through transport from Stung Treng to Ban Nakasang for Si Phan Don/Don Det ) and both customs officers and transport providers have a reputation of gouging foreigners , although this seems to have improved recently ( currently both Cambodian and Laos border officials request US$ 1 stamp fee per country ) . Crossing the border ( Oct 2010 ) the Cambodia officers will ask for US$ 1 for exit stamp.You can tell them you do n't have any and they will still stamp it . On the Laos side they will demand $ 2 for entry stamp , if you refuse they will not stamp it , ( you will need the stamp to get out ) , so you have no choice than to pay the bribe . Note if you cross the border by boat , you will have to return by road to the border checkpoint to officiate your arrival ( ie . get your passport stamped ) in Laos . As for top destinations , that 's something we try to avoid a bit - see the [ faq ] , we do n't want to do lists or subjective answers about what makes a destination a ' top ' destination , but <URL> that the Plain of Jars , Wat Phu , the three-layered gilded stupa of Pha That Luang ( national symbol ) and of course the natural wonders - the Mekong delta flatlands in the south .
Since you have one ticket , you do n't have to worry . If you miss your connection you will get transferred to the next available flight . Also most flights these days arrive ahead of time . There is <URL> epic answer that explains this in detail .
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
The Red MAX takes 44 minutes from Pioneer Square to the airport . Source : <URL> . So that 's 1.5 hrs . Security wait times you can predict from <URL> . Let 's put that to 20 minutes . Actually you need to get off the plane and get out . I 'd put that to another 20-30 minutes . We are at the 2.5 hrs mark . You need to wait for the Max , walk in the airport , your layover is a bit shorter because you need to be there by boarding and not leaving . So , you can make it to Moonstruck on Alder street , have a decent hot chocolate and then go back . Sightseeing , not so much . I certainly would rather than sitting at the airport . Moonstruck hot chocolate is one of the better ones on this coast , you need to go as far as Vancouver , BC to have better . ( Or if you have broader horizons , Eataly in New York is best . )
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
The usual Aussie website for comparing flight prices is <URL> , but in my experience they do n't list everything . Also they charge a booking fee so use it to find a flight but you might get a better price on the same flight elsewhere once you have the details .
I fly either that route ( as part of a GRU-SCL-AKL-MEL ) or the GRU-SCL-SYD-MEL route about 8 + times a year , though typically in business . There are really only two airlines to get you from SAO to AKL , and they 're Qantas and LAN , who each code-share the other 's flights . LAN 's fares are usually cheaper tha Qantas , even for exactly the same flight ( ie a LAN-marketed-fare on a Qantas-operated flight ) . The service and amenities in business at least are almost identical on both the LAN and Qantas flights out of Santiago ( SCL ) . In economy I suspect Qantas will be better , as I do n't think LAN have seat-back entertainment in economy . Because of the lack of competition on these routes , you will not find great variance between days of the week , especially if booking from further out . As the date gets closer , the weekends and Monday and Friday tend to book up , leaving only the higher fare classes aqvailable , so 1-4 weeks out you may see perhaps as much as a 20-30 % difference in fare between a mid-week flight and the other days . But this depends entirely on what has filled up . I recommend you book a LAN-marketed flight on Qantas metal , via an OTA such as Expedia . This is likely to be the best value .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
The sane way to travel from Kansai Airport to Kyoto is the direct JR Haruka service , which would usually cost ¥ 2,980 , but as you 've figured out is covered by the & yen ; 2060/day <URL> . Now you could buy two one-day passes ... but there 's an even better option ! Available at Kansai Airport only , and only for non-resident foreigners with a return air ticket , the " <URL> " pass gets you a round-trip from the airport to a Kansai city of your choice ( including Kyoto ) on the Haruka express ( plus local connections ) for & yen ; 4060 , plus an ICOCA smart card preloaded with & yen ; 1500 of credit that can be used anywhere in the Kansai region , including Kyoto buses and subways , or even drink vending machines etc. . This means you basically get the round-trip for & yen ; 2560 . However , if you 're really pinching pennies and were planning on walking or biking around Kyoto all day every day ( not recommended , it 's a big city ) , you could cover the distance for & yen ; 1720 one-way by taking the Nankai " rapid service " ( not to be confused with the premium rapi : t service , which is twice the price ) to Namba , crossing Osaka on the Midosuji subway line , then taking the JR Special Rapid to Kyoto . ( Route # 4 in <URL> ) The hassle of two extra transfers is highly unlikely to be worth the minor savings though . And finally , I presume this was just a typo , but the <URL> is n't going to help you , it 's only valid on JR East routes north of Tokyo .
One hour is not impossible , but it 's cutting it mighty close -- I probably would not take the risk . Bahamasair 's <URL> is checking in two hours before departure , with a cut-off at 30 min , although I 'm not sure how strictly this is enforced ( it 's a pint-sized airport after all ) . They are notoriously flaky though , and the veiled threat about getting bumped off even a confirmed flight if you do n't show up at least an hour beforehand should be taken seriously . Nevertheless , if you figure on 10 min to get to immigration , 0 to 30 min waiting in line ( use the Interisland Transit line on the right , it 'll be slightly faster ) , then 10 min to walk over to the domestic terminal , the odds are two in three that you 'll miss the 30 min cutoff . And that 's assuming you have no checked bags and that your flight lands precisely on time .
Aside Greyhound ( costing 30-60 ) , <URL> shows various other bus options including <URL> costing 20 . There is also a bus combination using <URL> which supposedly costs 19-24 . <URL> can get you there for as low as 11 one way depending on what day of the week you 're traveling and how far in the future you book your ticket . The bus trip takes 4 to 4.5 hours
Spring is unfortunately ( along with Autumn ) the <URL> . Some flowers bloom earlier than others , so depending on when you go , you may see a variety of different flowers . April and May tend to be the <URL> as they have slightly less rain than March , and you can usually guarantee that by then the flowers will be out , however the later you leave it , the slightly increased chance of summer arriving early and the blossoms vanishing . However , <URL> showed them in early March . So to some extent it 's a bit of a luck of the draw . Basically , the later you go , the better chance of good weather , but the slightly less chance of seeing flowers . To go for the best ' chance ' of both , I guess that would average out to be early April then .
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
@blackbird57 's answer is correct but refers to a <URL> instead of relevant <URL> on the website of the European Commission : An airport transit visa ( ATV ) authorises you to pass through the international transit zone at an airport located on the territory of the Schengen State and to await a connecting flight to a non-Schengen country . The ATV does not allow you to enter the Schengen territory ( to stay at a hotel or to take an onwards flight to another Schengen State , for example ) . that 's crystal clear . I was struggling with finding a good document to show that Type A means Airport Transit Visa but I found it in the <URL> itself : ' TYPE OF VISA ' heading : In order to facilitate matters for the control authorities , this heading specifies the type of visa using the letters A , C and D as follows : A : airport transit visa ( as defined in Article 2 ( 5 ) of this Regulation )
There are no direct buses available from Toronto to Boston on any of the major carriers <URL> , <URL> . Rail is also out which will put you based on my estimation of <URL> service into about 17 hour range with transfer in New York Penn Station . So your only option left would be to do a car rental , which may be just as expensive as the flight . Plus border crossing could add enough time to your 9h 30min journey that it will put you over your time limit . It is also possible that there are small bus companies or tour companies that offer the service but I ca n't find anything online .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
end question
start question
Need malaria meds for Rajasthan in February ?
As you said , it is meaning that you do n't really need prophylaxis . means in comparison with other parts of India , where the prevalence is n't that high anyway . A lot of my colleagues traveled to medical conferences and other symposia in Delhi and Rajasthan and none of them used any anti-malarials and none of them got sick . I do n't mean to be ignorant , but malaria is pretty treatable now so if something does go wrong , you can always make your trip shorter and seek medical help if you notice any of the symptoms ( do n't be overprotective and hypochondriac , though ) . <URL> will be of no use once you get there since you have to start taking it a few days before your trip . It 's also expensive and you have to take it each and every day . There is a dosage for children but since I 'm not an expert in that filed , you should ask a tropical diseases professional about that . Depending on how long you are intending to stay in India , I believe you should n't take any drugs if your trip is shorter than a month . There really is no need . And if it is longer , then start taking medication before the trip and buy the rest of the pills once you get to your destination . Read my answer on that subject <URL> . You and your son will be exposed to the same conditions so if one of you is taking meds , the other should as well . Reid also posted some links as a comment so read those questions/answers as well .
I checked the website from the <URL> , ( <URL> ) , there is no vaccination needed for that . ( As far as I know , only children get vaccinated for that ) . Check that website , it has a ton of information on the vaccination subject . The vaccinations are not that great anyway ( in the way that they protect you entirely ) . Meningitis can be caused by a virus or a bacteria ( and a parasite or fungus ) and there are over a 100 bacteria/virus strains that can cause it , the vaccinations only protect for a small number of these .
But as I remember all laptop charger is universal , so I guess I do n't need a voltage converter ? It should be printed on the charger - if it says something like " 100-230V " , you 're fine . Usually this is the case for stuff that people are likely to travel with , such as laptops . And I wonder does those hotel normally will have some power plug or converter that for traveller ? Hotels sometimes have sockets that admit multiple different plugs . If so , the US/Canadian plug will always be included . But such sockets are not always present , and often only in the bathroom , which is not a good place for a computer . Or I have to buy one in Toronto Canada ? I would recommend this to be on the safe side . Plug adapters are cheap , should n't cost more than $ 5
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
IMO Malaria medicines are not very much required , but if you want them , they are commonly available in India.Though malaria medicines are quite readily available in rural India also , I would recommend buying them from nearby city as quality of drugs in rural India may not be good ( drugs may be fake ) . Wherever you buy drugs in India , insist on taking receipt as it more or less ensures original drugs and if any drugstore hesitates to provide you proper receipts , do n't trust it.Keep in mind that in India , government provides important drugs quite cheaply , so you may get them from government hospitals probably for free or extremely cheaply ( again do n't rely on rural hospitals please ) . However please keep in mind that malaria should not be your most important insect borne concern.Other diseases like dengue etc are more common there . A suggestion : If you want to visit rural India ( as it appears ) , please consider mosquito repellant cream or you can use what locals call a mosquito coil ( though I hated the smell and think that the gas is not healthy ) . Best advise would be to use a mosquito net . It is awesome not only for protection against mosquitoes but also against many other insects ( though you may not like it if you are visiting India in summer ) .
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
If were a citizen of the Kingdom of the Netherlands , with a passport issued by that country , you would need a <URL> . If you are a citizen of Italy , with a passport issued by the Kingdom of the Netherlands , again , you would need a visa . If you are an Italian citizen , with a passport issued by the government of Italy , then you are exempt , as you yourself indicate .
The answer is indeed no ; no visa or ESTA of any kind needed for a visit of 90 days or less . Here 's what the <URL> has to say : ENTRY / EXIT REQUIREMENTS FOR U.S. CITIZENS : Austria is a party to the Schengen Agreement . As such , U.S. citizens may enter Austria for up to 90 days in any 180-day period for tourist or business purposes without a visa . The passport used should be valid at least for the period of the intended stay ( usually the date of the return flight ) . Anyone intending to stay longer than 90 days must obtain the appropriate visa issued by the Austrian Embassy in the United States . Specifically students attending a college/university in Austria should consult with the Austrian Embassy/Consulate before coming to Austria . Information for students is available from the Austrian agency for international mobility and cooperation in education , science and research ( OeAD ) . Also , technically one can only need an <URL> for the United States , as it 's related to the <URL> . Similar systems in other counties are called something else than " ESTA " .
I believe the answer is immigration , immigration and immigration ( real or perceived ) . In Europe at least , visa requirements and enforcement measures are motivated mostly by the risk that the people in question would try to enter the country and stay there illegally ( and of course all the political posturing around that risk ) . It could be argued that immigration is generally a net gain for a country ( cf. your point about talented people ) or that the risk of illegal immigration is overblown or entirely the result of an overly restrictive policy regarding legal immigration but none of this changes the politics . Just to provide some direct evidence of all this , the following is from the preamble of the Schengen visa code : In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty , the creation of an area in which persons may move freely should be accompanied by measures with respect to external border controls , asylum and immigration . [ ... ] As regards visa policy , the establishment of a ' common corpus ' of legislation , particularly via the consolidation and development of the acquis ( the relevant provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 and the Common Consular Instructions , is one of the fundamental components of ' further development of the common visa policy as part of a multi-layer system aimed at facilitating legitimate travel and tackling illegal immigration through further harmonisation of national legislation and handling practices at local consular missions ' , as defined in the Hague Programme : strengthening freedom , security and justice in the European Union . [ ... ] It is necessary to set out rules on the transit through international areas of airports in order to combat illegal immigration . Thus nationals from a common list of third countries should be required to hold airport transit visas . Nevertheless , in urgent cases of mass influx of illegal immigrants , Member States should be allowed to impose such a requirement on nationals of third countries other than those listed in the common list . Member States ' individual decisions should be reviewed on an annual basis . This is only one example but it 's explicitly all about immigration . I think the other considerations ( reciprocity , passports ) only factor in tangentially . Note that until now the EU has not really been insisting so strongly on reciprocity , so that US citizens still enjoy visa-free visits to the whole Schengen area despite the fact that after years of discussion there are still several EU countries whose citizens are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program . Similarly , some or all EU citizens enjoy visa-free ( or visa-on-arrival ) access to countries such as Turkey , Morocco , Tunisia and most of South America so reciprocity is clearly overemphasized as an explanation .
As you said , it is meaning that you do n't really need prophylaxis . means in comparison with other parts of India , where the prevalence is n't that high anyway . A lot of my colleagues traveled to medical conferences and other symposia in Delhi and Rajasthan and none of them used any anti-malarials and none of them got sick . I do n't mean to be ignorant , but malaria is pretty treatable now so if something does go wrong , you can always make your trip shorter and seek medical help if you notice any of the symptoms ( do n't be overprotective and hypochondriac , though ) . <URL> will be of no use once you get there since you have to start taking it a few days before your trip . It 's also expensive and you have to take it each and every day . There is a dosage for children but since I 'm not an expert in that filed , you should ask a tropical diseases professional about that . Depending on how long you are intending to stay in India , I believe you should n't take any drugs if your trip is shorter than a month . There really is no need . And if it is longer , then start taking medication before the trip and buy the rest of the pills once you get to your destination . Read my answer on that subject <URL> . You and your son will be exposed to the same conditions so if one of you is taking meds , the other should as well . Reid also posted some links as a comment so read those questions/answers as well .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
If you travel Portugal - Germany - Egypt , you will stay in the Schengen area till you leave Germany , you will have an internal Schengen area flight and get out of the Schengen area when you leave Germany . If your layover is long enough you can leave the airport . For most European airports they advise not to leave the airport if your stop is less than 5 hours , but it does differ between the different airports . On the other hand , if you fly from Portugal to Egypt and then to Germany , you would have left the Schengen area when leaving Portugal and would not be allowed into Germany , as your visit would be a second entry into the Schengen area .
No , you do n't : if you 've used your USA visa at least once , you can enter Georgia visa-free for 90 days . Foreign nationals who have a multiple entry US , EU or Schengen member states visas , which have validity for one year or more and had been used once at least , can enter or stay on the territory of Georgia without visa up to 90 days , within the validity term of the visa . Source : <URL>
I 've lived in Calgary and Toronto , so I can speak generally about Canada . In larger cities ( i.e. Toronto , Montreal , Vancouver ) , USD is sometimes acceptable at shops near the airport or in tourist areas , although you wo n't get a good rate . In cities like Winnipeg , Calgary , Edmonton , do n't expect that USD will be acceptable anywhere but at the airport . Your best bet would be to convert some of your money to CAD while in Winnipeg .
If you go to Hostelbookers ( generally a bit cheaper than Hostelworld ) and search by price , <URL> . In the high season when I was there last year it was still possible to walk into some hostels and get a bed , but not guaranteed , especially around weekends when more people travel and use them .
You do not need ( and can not get ) a short-stay visa for the Schengen area ( including France ) as the US is on the list in annex II of <URL> . You can therefore present yourself at the border ( i.e. take a plane to Europe ) without any prior formality . Theoretically , you might be asked to show you fulfil a number of conditions like having sufficient financial means ( e.g. that you have a credit card ) or a valid purpose for your stay but in practice and unless you raise some red flags , you will just be asked a couple of questions and stamped in . And yes , you can go in and out of France as much as you wish for the next six months ( or even after that ) , provided you never exceed <URL> . Since you do not have a visa , there is no need to renew anything . You will merely get entry and exit stamps that document your stays in the Schengen area and are used to enforce the 90-day limit I just mentioned . It 's not relevant for you as US citizen but for people who do need a Schengen visa , what is allowed depends entirely on the visa . A Schengen visa can be valid for up to 5 years but can also be ( much ) more restrictive , there is absolutely no guarantees that it will be valid for six months or allow a 90-day stay and no direct link with the 90/180 days rule ( which , for visa holders , is just an upper bound on what can be granted ) . First-time applicants usually get a visa that covers their first intended trip , nothing more , and might be forced to apply for a new visa for each subsequent trip ( which means providing all the documents to the consulate , paying the fee and waiting for the decision again ) . It 's only after several trips and if they have a good reason to visit the Schengen area regularly that visa nationals get a multiple-entry visa valid for one year or more ( in which case the 90-day limit applies ) .
Malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water that collects after monsoons . If you 're travelling during winter or summer in India , you do n't have to worry about this too much as the weather conditions are not conducive for these specific mosquitoes to breed . Locals usually do n't take malaria pills , instead preferring to sleep in mosquito nets that will prevent you from getting bitten regardless of what type of mosquito it is . Most mosquitoes you 'll get bitten by ( and you will ) are harmless . While most travellers going to take precautions against malaria , another mosquito vector-borne disease that is common in India is <URL> . Compared to malaria , dengue is a bigger threat as it 's harder to ' prevent ' ; there are no pills or vaccinations for it . Like malaria , this is also transmitted by a specific kind of mosquito ( aedes aegypti ) locally known as ' tiger mosquito ' as it has yellow-striped bands on its legs . If you see such a mosquito , then you know to be extra careful . City and town authorities take disease control seriously and frequent fumigation is carried out during monsoon season ; you will be fairly safe when if you 're stick mostly to cities when travelling . It helps to keep an eye on local newspapers if you 're travelling for longer periods for news about dengue outbreaks . Take extra precaution when you 're staying near places with stagnant pools of water , such as the nature reserves , backwater lagoons et al. . Long story short : Sleep in a mosquito net , or burn a ' <URL> ' ( ask for it at any convenience store ; it burns slowly and releases smoke fumes that keep mosquitoes away . Handier to carry around than a net , but fragile so no point buying in bulk as they will break when packed in bags ) . It will keep you safe from malaria/dengue-carrying mosquitoes and every other kind .
You need a bit more information . Are you going with a tour or solo ? I went solo and I do n't really know any Russian aside form what I picked up while there . I stayed on the Europe side of the Urals , and bounced between hostels . It is definitely more difficult to go solo , but with some pedimiming and patience , it is easy enough . Contrary to a lot of stereotypes Russians are generally nice , helpful people . I ca n't tell you how many pairs of nit socks I bought from the babushkas on the streets . If you smile and point , you should be fine . It really depends on how experienced you are at traveling . I do , of course , always recommend studying up on the culture and language A BIT before you go . Know some words and carry a dictionary . The ' Where is ... ( bathroom/police/embassy ) ' and ' I want ... ( food/water/beer ) ' set of words is pretty much required where ever you go .
As a UK citizen and a visitor , you 're required to obtain an electronic <URL> that allows you 90 days in Turkey . This should largely cover the time of your stay , which you mentioned was a couple of weeks . Turkey defines work , the criteria for a work visa , as being a paid activity . It does n't have a specific <URL> visa , and you 'll note that <URL> visas require detailed documents about your payment , employer and specific <URL> requirements . So if you 're not being paid , that makes you ineligible for a work visa .
end question
start question
Should I book hotels once or multiple times for weeks of staying ?
Depending on the country , long stays can be exempt from various taxes . This is an example for <URL> , but I believe it is also the case in many ( all ? ) other US states . Permanent Residents ( 30-Day Rule ) Guests who occupy a hotel room for 30 or more consecutive days are considered permanent residents and are exempt from hotel tax . There can be no interruption of payment during that period . If your stay is not this long , depending on the hotel , the cost of a stay can be any combination of subsets of that stay . I stay in hotels 100s of nights per year and the cost of a 3 day stay in the hotel chain I use could be cheaper if I book as day 1 + days 2-3 , or 1-2 + 3 , or 1 + 2 + 3 or 1-3 . I wrote a program to calculate all of this and can save over $ 1000 for a 2 week stay by finding the optimal combination . Just like airline ticket prices , hotel prices can also fluctuate massively . Booking shorter refundable stays and monitoring the price can lead to being able to rebook these and save considerably . However , in this case you are gambling that the refundable price drops below the current non-refundable price . As Calchas says , you can also attempt to negotiate with the hotel directly too .
If for some reason you ca n't do an online meeting or conference call , I have three tips for planning a business meeting ( not a conference or a vacation , where flight convenience is not the controlling factor ) . Know your group When dealing with business travel , it 's important to remember that the ticket price is not the only cost incurred ; time is also significant , especially in case of irregular operations . If you 're choosing between two airports , pick one that is a hub for whichever airline the most members of your group have frequent flyer elite status with . The elite status means less time waiting in line and priority service if something goes wrong , especially if one has a lounge membership . Ultra-discount airlines , on the other hand , are right out . Minimize connections Assuming your group is more concerned about time and convenience than about cost , I would argue the most important thing to avoid for an important business meeting is a connection . On any given flight , you could have weather delays , mechanical problems , missing crew members , air traffic congestion , and so on . When you have two flights , you double the number of times you can experience any of these things , and if they occur on your first segment , you could miss your second segment and end up delayed by hours or even days . On top of this , there is a risk of getting lost at the connection point ( for example , if there is a terminal change from one airline to a partner airline ) , and any checked bags are also far more likely to get misplaced or misrouted during a connection than on a nonstop . Each stop entails additional time , because your aircraft goes through an extra takeoff and landing cycle plus up to an hour for servicing ( cleaning , restocking , refueling , etc. ) . And depending on the route , the hub may be out of the way , forcing you to backtrack at least partially , which also eats up time ( Delta likes to send me BWI-ATL-MCI , almost half again as long as BWI-CVG-MCI would be ) . Nonstops do command a premium , but that 's because they 're often worth it for business travel . So I would aim for a city which has nonstop service from the airports where the various group members will be flying out of . Depending on the particular distribution of your group , this is most likely to be a relatively hub of one of the Big 3 ( United , Delta , American ) , but it could just as easily be a focus city for Southwest , which offers frequent nonstops from medium-sized cities . Most major airlines have an interactive route maps on their website , which will help you visualize service to and from a particular airport . Schedule well On the ground , most things will balance out . Every major airport will have some business class hotel nearby with adequate meeting facilities , mediocre food , and a free shuttle from the terminal . The cost will vary depending on the location , but the cost of the room rental will probably be far below the cost of the flights anyway . But schedule well , both time of year and time of day . San Francisco sees many fog delays in the summer , while Miami gets overwhelmed during winter holidays . Philadelphia gets delays for no good reason all the time . Flight delays cascade throughout the system and compound through the day : when an incoming flight is delayed , it is often delayed in departing again . The first flight of the day , having had all night to arrive and undergo maintenance , is far less likely to see a delay . So do n't schedule a dinner meeting in Chicago in August and expect to have everyone there on the dot .
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
Good luck if you want to take a bus in Marrakech ... According to the Moroccan Airports Authority there is <URL> . This shuttle is running at an hourly frequency , between 6.25 am and 12.25 am on the following route : Departure Airport - Hivernage - Jemaa El Fna - Bab Doukkala - Gueliz - ONCF Station - Arrival Airport The one-way ticket costs 30 MAD and the round trip 50 MAD . There is a place not far from the Jemaa El Fna square where you can catch the main city buses . On the other hand , note that the main sights can and must be visited on foot . For instance , there is no bus crossing the Medina . If you want to go to a place a bit outside , such as the Majorelle Gardens , you can take a so-called small taxi . These taxis have meters , and the drivers are supposed to use them ( you have to insist ) . Note that 25 MAD will take you rather far already .
The usual rule of thumb is you get a better rate at the destination , but it never hurts to check beforehand . Look online for the " sell " rate of NZ Dollars from a Japanese bank and the " buy " rate for Japanese Yen at a NZ bank . Then do the math . If you choose Japan , the exchange service may not have small denomination NZ currency and definitely no coins , so they will exchange however much fits into the notes they have onhand and give you back the rest in Yen . If you choose New Zealand , I would try to swap your coins and notes for the biggest denomination Yen notes you can get before leaving Japan , rather than show up with a fist full of small notes . Any coins you have leftover should be spent at the airport or deposited into a charity box .
There have been several studies looking into health risks associated with air travel , though often , it 's the pilots who are the focus of the investigation . A large European study , <URL> , finds in accordance with others that there is a higher incidence of skin cancer in cockpit crews . This has also been observed for cabin crews . However , they do not find a dose-response , i.e. they can not demonstrate that flying more increases skin cancer risk , which is what you 'd expect if it was radiation exposure during the flight that was causing cancer . Consequently , it is quite possible that it 's higher exposure to UV light in their time off work that puts cockpit and cabin crews at a higher risk for skin cancer compared to the rest of the population . In other words <URL> is overly sensationalist . Interestingly , mortality from several other causes is lower in cockpit crews , possibly due to selection effects , i.e. you need to be fit and healthy to get the job , and you make sufficent money to afford good health care : Our study confirms the marked cardiovascular mortality reduction of cockpit crew as compared to the general population . Obviously only very healthy persons are recruited into the profession , and continuous medical supervision may play a role in controlling cardiovascular risk factors . Analyses of mortality by age show that low mortality persists even after retirement . As seen in ESCAPE [ = the name of the study ] subcohorts and independent studies published previously , aircraft accidents , whether private or occupational cause a substantial proportion of deaths especially among younger cockpit crew . Pilots in early phases of their flight career seem to carry the highest risk of accidental death in aviation . Mortality from motor vehicle and other accidents was low . In summary , there may be a higher risk of skin ( and , apparently , breast ) cancer , though staying away from tanning studios and the beach in your spare time possibly alleviates that . What about non-fatal health risks ? Several potential issues come to mind : Exposure to pathogens , stress , and high noise levels . Exposure to pathogens is of course a concern in an enclosed space , and there are reports of infections spreading on planes <URL> . When levels of <URL> and <URL> have been measured , it was found that they were highest during on/off boarding , when passengers were moving around and when AC was running on anciliary power . In other words , AC on modern aircraft is doing a good job of filtering the air . Coincidentially , there has been a case study reporting rapid spread of the flu when the AC was out of order ( see the above-linked pdf ) . In sum : Wash your hands frequently , do n't exchange bodily fluid with passengers , and you should do fine , as long as the ventilation system is running . Stress is a risk factor associated with many physical and mental health related problems . There are indeed stress symptoms , such as fatigue , headache , concentration difficulties , or gastrointestinal problems reported in <URL> , though they do not compare stress level/symptoms to the general population . Anyway , not surprisingly , stress levels are lower the higher up on the ladder you are in the hierarchy . Also , the social network helps a lot to mitigate effects of stress . In sum : be the boss , and relax with friends and family , and you 'll do fine . Noise could also be a problem - it is loud on the airplane due to the engine noise . <URL> , on probably the same Swedish airline as above , reports no ill effects of noise exposure , however . Overall , it appears that even chronic air travel leads to little long-term damage . Have a good flight ! If you want to keep up-to-date on research done in the US regarding health risks for flight crews , you can check out <URL> .
If you try and use the contactless Oyster twice in a row ( ie to let a second person through on your card ) for a trip from A to B , it 'll error . You 're required to touch out first before you can touch in again , and then the first person would n't be allowed to travel as they 've touched out at A. Source : <URL> : Number of people using an Oyster card Only one Oyster card can be used per person per journey . That means if you are travelling in a group , each person will have to use a separate Oyster card , or find another way to pay for their journey . Second Source : I 've tried this . And asked about it at the time . You need one card for each travelling passenger . Third source : <URL> Note : This is for Oyster cards , the primary TFL cards when I was in London . For other recent contactless cards , <URL> .
Google Maps now supports mass transit navigation in Berlin , so there 's no need to use external apps . <URL>
I 've found ( anecdotally ) that initially in London , the walking times were way too slow - I was beating the times regularly . Then I moved to Vancouver and found them too fast . I 'm a quick walker , so was n't sure what was happening . I eventually figured it was down to knowledge . I ' knew ' London far better , and even though I might be using a map , I could navigate the crowds , the streets and so on far better than in Vancouver , where I was regularly having to check landmarks . When it comes to driving , the Google Maps times are best possible times . So it 's assuming you can drive at basically the speed limit all the time . It gives no thought to inevitable traffic problems ( they 're improving that , especially in cities , but it 's not there yet ) , and as you 've pointed out wo n't handle rest times . I drove from Melbourne to Sydney ( Australia ) this year and the times were definitely low . I wanted to stop for lunch , or briefly check out some sightseeing spots , sure , but even the sections where I was just driving ( week day , during the day ) in a car I was n't used to , on roads I was n't used to , the estimates were n't ideal . Perhaps if you speed , or are really used to driving on Japanese roads it 'd be more accurate , but currently it 's a best-case , for the most part . ( disclaimer : this post will outdate as Google improves , but that 's the situation to the best of my knowledge currently ) EDIT : Someone did a pretty good breakdown , and a discussion follows , on this topic on reddit ( it was about why speeding seemed to match the accuracy ) . Some of the discussion will be of interest : <URL> Further relevant posts , linked from that discussion : <URL> and how they 're trying to use your data to improve their algorithms : <URL>
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
My parents live in Anuradhapura and I live in Kandy , and I make this trip up and down at least once a month . The earliest Intercity from A/pura to Kandy is at 4.30-5 AM from A/pura . Reaches Kandy at about 7.30 AM , depends on the traffic . The last bus departs at 7.30 PM , reaches Kandy at 9.30-10PM but you will not find any other buses in A6 road ( Kandy to Mahiyangana road which has many tourist hotels ) , Three-wheelers are available but expect to pay a slightly higher price . For A1 ( Kandy to Colombo ) , you will find a bus even at the mid-night . Kandy to A/pura buses are available every 30 mins from 6.30 AM to 6.45 PM . You can call +94252225257 ( A/pura bus depot ) and ask them if they have buses available . Also , there are 2 routes in between A/pura and Kandy . 42 and 43 . A/C buses are only available in 43 because the 42 is a little bumpy road near A/pura . Buses in 42 route , IMO , are very uncomfortable compared to 43 's .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
The only real problem you have is the stamps , they will take some space ! making your passport full faster than it should be . That 's the only problem you might have . Singapore is a business hub , some businessmen go there on weekly basis or even more than that . Just like Dubai . In addition to that , many airlines transit through there . So , going there more frequent is really ok . Last thing , you have an onward ticket with a very short layover , that 's enough proof of the " intention " of the visit . Really , nothing to worry about .
To get a decent vantage point you should probably get into a restaurant like <URL> on Times Square or some similar , menu is not that fancy but the location is great and you might want to reserve the seat by the glass now . Generally it used to be that to get a place by the fence you will need to be on Times Square the morning of the 31st ( times have varied ) . Last year the police had shut off all access in or out of Times Square around 9pm that means that from 9pm to about 1am you can not walk in , or even take a train into Times Square , but this varies year to year based on the crowd expectation . Just so it is better explained here is the <URL> explaining schedules and locations . EDIT Since the question was answered there is another restaurant from which it may be possible to see the ball drop though the vantage point would be worse then the Olive Garden . It may be possible to view the ball drop [ Blue Fin ] [ 3 ] restaurant located on the corner of 47th and Broadway , though the angle would not be great and I ca n't find any indication that it may be open on the New Year 's Eve , though for that location it is a must .
South Coast cities famous for surfing and great beaches : Malibu - you must check out the regional classic point break at the Malibu Lagoon . Contests are held throughout the year and surfers are crowding for the best waves at other times . Finding affordable accommodation is tricky , but the <URL> seems about the best cost vs distance option . Santa Monica - more touristy than Malibu and with the famous pier , the promenade stretches a couple of miles to Venice Beach . Cheapest I can find is the Pacific Sands Motel , 1515 Ocean Ave. , ☎ (310) 395-6133 with rooms from $ 55 , Pacific Beach - numbers surge in summer , especially at the Tourmaline Surfing Park . <URL> is a chain of hostels here , and is probably your cheapest option . Santa Barbara - There 's actually a hostel here ( Santa Barbara Tourist Hostel ) , with <URL> . Newport beach and more . to check these out , have a look at the <URL> . Highlights on the Central Coast : Big Sur - a small town where tourists can get away from it all ( albeit with other tourists ) - perched on a cliff over the ocean . To be fair , the surfing here would be a bit rubbish but it 's a highlight on the way down the coast . Monterey ( in Monterey Bay ) - with five public beaches , there 's tons to do here . As much as I dislike promoting HI Hostels , there 's one here called Hostelling International Monterey which seems like the best budget accommodation . Santa Barbara - There are numerous beaches in the area fit for surfing and several companies that rent surfboards . Although the surf tends to be much smaller in the summer , it is perfect for beginners . There are also several nice long board breaks that are suitable year round . Impressively there 's a <URL> as well ! Santa Cruz - a variety of beaches , some of which are a surfer 's paradise . The Surf Museum is here too . Easy waves for novices in summer , big breaks in winter especially in front of the lighthouse . Worth noting that it 's illegal to sleep in your car here , so you 'll need a hotel - best I can find is the <URL> - the Dream Inn is too touristy and some view it as overpriced . Of course there are lots of beaches all along the coast , and as you drive down you may spot a beach that looks amazing . If you find a gem , feel free to add it to this page !
You may not need a guide specifically for kids , as all recent editions of Lonely Planet guides include little " family friendly " icons next to all listings that are considered family friendly , which means : Indicates children are welcome and accommodated for through the facilities available ( eg has change rooms , an elevator , flexible sleeping arrangements , children 's menus etc ) . Not used to indicate a child might enjoy a place ( eg a theme park ) -- that should be clear from the review . Most books also have a Travelling with Children chapter with various highlights ( and pitfalls ) for kids in that city/country . And while this wo n't help in your specific case , for older kids ( 8 + ) , there 's also the <URL> series intended specifically for kids to read and use themselves . And , as a traveling father of a 1.5-year-old myself , I 'll heartily second Grzenio 's recommendation to book accommodation in advance . Kid-hostile restaurants etc you can always deal with somehow ( take-away , one parent takes the kid for a walk while the other eats , etc ) , but conjuring a hotel room or crib out of thin air is a bit harder .
If you have a visa , it 's either single-entry or multiple-entry . If you have visa-free entries , it works as if you were getting a new visa each time you cross the border . You can visit multiple times , as long as your <URL> .
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
end question
start question
In which country do you pay tax and duty when travelling through multiple countries ?
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
All international passengers arriving at Abu Dhabi airport have to go through security once . After that you can check your next airline on the screen or printed boarding pass which terminal to go . There would be only 1 security when you will be entering and after passing there would be no additional security again
If you are in Suwon , the very first thing you should do is to try suwon galbi . Suwon is one of the best places in South Korea to try galbi . Also , do n't forget to visit Hwasong , a fortress which was built after imjin japanse invasion . There is also a famous amusement park in Korea near suwon called , ' everland ' . Plan on spending about 2-3 days to look around and try things I suggested above and you should be good .
A good question , and yes , you are correct . A few things to understand : The Entry Reciprocity Fee is ONLY charged at SCL . It applies ( differently ) to citizens of Albania , Australia , Canada , the United States , and Mexico . Other citizens do n't have to pay . ( Yay for the Kiwi passport ! ) The receipt for payment of the reciprocity fee is attached to your passport . On subsequent visits to Chile , you do n't have to pay the fee again for the life of your passport . When you get a new passport , you 'll have to pay the fee again . Source : I have found <URL> <URL> of <URL> done this and <URL> , as well as asking a US friend who has done it a couple of times .
You may qualify for " <URL> " , which would provide you meals , accommodation , transporation , if your itinerary matches certain conditions ( layover length between 8 and 24 hours , no better connections available and there are a few more limitations ) . If your booking does qualify , then you should see it as an option on Emirates website under " Manage your booking " .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
Having some passport not recognized by some country is not that unusual . It 's pretty much certain to happen somewhere for passports of countries with partial recognition . Someone else mentioned passports of Northern Cyprus ( which is only recognized by Turkey ) , which <URL> , is only accepted in 6 countries . But there are many other countries in the same boat . The Republic of China passport : The Republic of China is recognized by 21 UN members plus the Holy See . But its passport is accepted in almost all countries . However , there are some peculiarities . <URL> , a few countries ( Argentina , Kenya , Laos , Nepal , Serbia ) will issue the visa on a separate sheet , not on the passport itself , presumably due to not recognizing the passport . Brazil apparently will require the person apply for a Brazilian laissez-passer as the document to put the visa on . China ( People 's Republic of ) will issue some kind of permit instead . The page for <URL> does not explicitly mention any country where it is not accepted . But common sense would dictate that it is not recognized by Serbia . The Nagorno-Karabakh passport is not recognized anywhere , <URL> ( though it 's unclear if that means it can not be used anywhere ) . For <URL> it says " not valid for travel to most countries " ( not really sure what that means ) . The pages for <URL> and <URL> do not explicitly mention any country where they are not accepted . But again , they would be at least not recognized by the countries that their territory is claimed by ( Azerbaijan for Nagorno-Karabakh , Moldova for Transnistria , Georgia for Abkhazia and South Ossetia ) . The page for <URL> also does not mention where it is not recognized ; but for that case it is conceivable that it could be recognized everywhere . For <URL> , it says it is accepted in 8 countries as unofficial travel documents , which probably means it is not accepted mostly everywhere else . South Koreans visiting North Korea will be issued a visa <URL> .
From <URL> : Foreign citizens waiting for their connecting flight are allowed to stay at Sheremetyevo Airport up to 24 hours without a valid Russian visa . The passenger should have a ticket of the relevant airline with confirmed seating for the relevant connecting flights . International transit passengers whose transfer requires their stay at Sheremetyevo Airport in excess of 24 hours , may obtain a Russian transit visa at the airport ( upon presentation of their connecting flight tickets and valid IDs ) . Unless you 're flying from or to Belarus Passengers from/to Belarus should be aware of the need to have a Russian transit visa regardless of the duration of their stay at the airport .
From the <URL> : Your baggage allowance is given by combined weight , not by number of bags . As long as your bags have a combined weight within your allowance , bring as many as you like . No single bag can weigh more than 32kg So , as long as your brother stays under 20kg total , he 's fine with no matter how many bags . The 32kg per bag limit would only matter if he was in business , and/or bought extra luggage allowance .
If you 're on international flight , staying less than 24 hours in airport , and are not leaving it , you do not need a transit visa . Look at <URL> .
I do n't see anywhere on the <URL> that they do n't or wo n't do visas for citizens of other countries . As a matter of fact if you look at the <URL> you will see that they still do B1 and B2 visas with full application so that means that you can apply for a visa in Stockholm even though you are not a Swedish citizen just read the requirements in the <URL> and <URL> to see what you need to get a visa .
Short answer is none , you 'll be able to apply for visas and enter anywhere , although it may require some explaining . Here 's <URL> ( which presumably deals with this all the time ) as an example , and a <URL> : Single names are quite common in eg . southern India , Indonesia and Mongolia , and thus embassy staff are reasonably used to dealing with them ; a single-named Indonesian friend of mine had more problems dealing with smaller bureaucracies like ( in the US ) library cards , university IDs , etc. . She usually ended up duplicating her name or creating a fake initial : " H Henny " , " Henny Henny " , etc. .
Standard cigarette lights are generally allowed in carry-on baggage . Obviously this is an area where exact regulations vary from country-to-country , and there may be limits on the maximum number per person ( eg , 1 ! ) but for the most part they are allowed . For example , the US TSA " Can I Take " website will give you the <URL> when passing through US airports .
Well , if you want to know something about culture of other country , why not to try solving general problems in that country ? For example : Try to buy food in a supermarket . Or even in a small shop near the center . Try to go and use a barber . Try to find a battery for your cell-phone Try to ask people where is the best cafe they know ( this is a fantastic question , for example , for the Italians ) Try to buy general goods , like socks or t-shirt Try to get <URL> for you and communicate with them who accept you in their home . Walk a lot and use public transportation instead of prepackaged tours ( from <URL> ) Get cash from the ATM - and go into places that do n't have the Visa/MasterCard/AmeEx logos on the door ( from <URL> ) Language barrier is not the problem - if you are polite and smile , people will help you . But never go deep into the city you do n't really know about . Start with 500m away from your hotel .
The registration requirement for Mongolia is , as you say , and as <URL> other sources <URL> , for tourists who plan to stay longer than 30 days there . They have to register within 4 days of arrival . Since you have got a thirty day visa , I can only assume that you do not plan to stay longer than 30 days , and therefore do not need to register . If you currently plan to not overstay 30 days , but change your mind later , I would suggest that you go and talk to the <URL> at that point in time . You would have to do so anyhow in order not to violate your visa status .
Traveling is a personal experience and the things you will need really depend on what you want to do . If you are going on holiday where you will be doing a bunch of things , I will pack all the necessary things I need at home and not worry too much about my trip . To cut to the chase , here 's my list of essentials : Shades or sunglasses , do n't forget them . If you are a swimmer or just to want to make yourself wet in a pool , have a pair of your swimming clothes and goggles . A laptop , assuming you do n't want to escape the rat race . Condoms , assuming you are married and want to have sex with your partner without the risk of making her pregnant . A towel , good to have when you are lying somewhere on a beach . Novels or books in general . Will help you enjoy long flights where passengers setting next to you are as grumpy as Donald Trump . Do some research on what to read and what 's new . It all depends on your interest . ( I carry my Kindle all the time ) . A flashlight . Good to have when you are out on a beach at night , or travel to an unknown land where you need to find your way around in the dark . Cash in local currency . And make sure you have some singles . You can do this after you land in your destination . Research the place before you travel . With that , you are making sure about what to do and where to go . Travel documents . Make sure you have them on you at all times . Shit happens , and you never know when . Have both the two and three pin plug adapters for your computer or electronic devices . A multi-adapter might be even better . Make sure you have your chargers in your handbag or backpack . Your credit card . Inform your bank that you are traveling so that they do n't block your card when they see a charge from a place in a far away land . At least that 's what I need to do in the US . A pen and paper . Training clothes and shoes . Most hotels will not let you use their facility in flip-flops . Last but not least , a nice backpack .
Freedom of movement for workers is one of the fundamental building stones of the EU and EU citizens do n't need to get prior authorization to work elsewhere in the EU . In practice , some countries used to ( and perhaps still do ) deliver some form of residence " permit " but unlike non-EU citizens , you are entitled to get one ( i.e. formally the permit just documents your pre-existing treaty rights , it 's not up to the authorities of the country to give you one or not ) . In my experience , it 's a formality you complete after starting to work , nothing much happens if you do n't get one . For example in Ireland I showed up a couple of times at the local police station where apparently only one garda knew the procedure and he was never there ; his colleagues just told me not to bother . In the Netherlands , I got one from the town administration where I was asked if I want one or not and told it 's mostly useful to simplify things like getting welfare benefits if I lost my job , etc. ( I do n't have personal experience with that but I believe you only qualify for welfare after living several years in the country , you ca n't go " benefits-shopping " and move to a country just for that ) . All of this is not yet true for citizens of Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia who still suffer from restrictions in certain countries for up to 7 years after their country joined the EU under transitory rules and do sometimes need to go through a lot of red tape to get a work permit . Of course , if you want to practice a regulated profession ( starting with lawyers and medical doctors but in some countries the list is really long ) , you need to get your qualifications recognized . Getting this type of things working as smoothly as possible is a big part of what the EU does but that 's unlikely to be an issue for short-term jobs . In many countries , you also need to get a tax/health insurance number that locals would have had since their birth and that employers will require . In some countries , I suspect working legally would also mean that you need to register as a resident with the local administration irrespective of the time you intend to stay ( in Germany , Switzerland , the Netherlands , residents have to officially register any change of address within days of moving -- it feels kind of creepy to me but it 's very easy to do in practice ) . So there can still be some red tape involved even if you do n't need a permit per se . Furthermore , a small number of defense , health or policy-related positions can be closed to citizens from other EU countries ( but certainly not all public sector jobs ) . Info on all this <URL> is very good . PS : Immigration is mostly off-topic on this site but then again we do have questions about working in Georgia or Argentina and , if you are a citizen from one of the member states , the EU rules obviously also allow you to work for a short time while traveling around Europe .
Smog is becoming more of a problem with urbanization , especially in developing countries with fewer restrictions on emissions control . ( <URL> ) In cities like Beijing , where it 's a serious problem , there 's often a government or city board that monitors it and provides warnings . In Beijing , that 's the The Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center . Usually when smog levels are high or dangerous , they 'll release a statement . So if you 're concerned , keep an eye or ear out for their announcements . What to do about it ? Well one government , at least , has provided some suggestions . The Ministry of Environment ( MoE ) in Canada , produced a website on <URL> . The key points : avoid exertion outdoors replan activities for when smog levels are lower stay away from high traffic areas ( exhaust fumes make it worse ) stay in a well-ventilated place drink plenty of fluids if you experience any symptoms ( shortness of breath , etc ) seek medical attention ! They also have information on how you can help to reduce levels ( on the same page ) .
A quite a good resource is imho the standard clock setting in Microsoft Windows installations : image from talkstandards.com As you can see , it 's particularly North America , India , the Philippines , Colombia , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Australia This is more or less confirmed by <URL> that states that in most English-speaking regions , particularly the United States , the Philippines and the United Kingdom and its former colonies , the 12-hour clock is the predominant form of stating the time .
While saying " No " in Asia is generally different from other countries in western Europe , I made the experience that - depending on how well you know people and in which environment you are - it is much more difficult to find out what the actual situation is in Japan than let 's say in China , Singapore etc. . I experienced the biggest differences to the Japanese behavior in Philippines , Thailand , Indonesia , India and Vietnam . And before people slam my answer ( as before ) as not being applicable for the weekend tourist trying to buy a train ticket , please remember that regular business travel to a country is STILL travel and ON topic here . I further consider extended explanations as important to better understand the cultural detail while maybe not all parts of the explanation are 100 % usable during every days tourism in Japan . Saying " No " in general There are varying levels of issues here depending on your relationship to people ( are you a tourist , a customer , a friend , a boss etc ) where in general , as a foreigner , you might be treated with more politeness and therefore will have more issues detecting the " No " . Confusingly , there might be exceptions when Japanese people tend to be more direct and/or forgiving with foreigners in a sort of " He is a foreigner , he does not know better " way ( Henna Gai Jin ) . In general I have to say that your presence will be much more appreciated if you can avoid relying on the fact that you , as a foreigner , are seemingly less required to stick to Japanese customs . Please be aware that the more formal the environment is , the less you will hear a " no " . In any formal conversation , a " No " is actually highly impolite . I have a Japanese-Japanese-English dictionary which actually tells people what to say ( in Ja and Eng ) in different situations in an office environment depending on what they think ( in Ja ) . And in none of the sentences where " What you think " is along the lines of " we can not do that " being actually translated as " No " . The typical answers of decline are " We have to study the situation " or other evasive answers . Even the " Shikata ga nai " ( " We can not help it " ) is extremely rare and normally used only when all are victims to a common adverse situation . Saying " No " is something that you will hear only from people who feel superior towards you ( teachers , bosses , home-stay parents parents etc ) , in most direct but still relatively polite form being " Ya " ( " No " ) and much , much more seldom in the often too direct forms of " Damé " ( Do n't do that ) , " Muri " ( Impossible ) etc. . Many Japanese people chuckle when they hear foreigners using one-word statements as above , but also positive ones such as " Mochiron " ( Of course ! ) since that 's not something heard very often . Situations where people want to decline but may not : First of all , we have to be aware that there are several types of " No " in any language : Here the 4 most important ones : Not being able to do something immediately ( as in " We do not have this product " ) where it becomes quickly apparent and the person by any means can not simply say " Here you go " . Not being able to do something but it could be done later ( as in " Are you able to finish this until tomorrow ? " ) where the person can confirm now and live with the issue later Being able to do something but actually not wanting to do so ( i.e. accepting to do something to be polite ) Being forced to commit to something because there is a feeling that it is very important for you How to avoid the situation in the first place : In that context , there are several behaviors that make you get a better answer in the first place , since you offer the asked person a way out without them feeling obliged to say " yes " to something they actually do not want to say " yes " to : 1 ) Do not ask direct questions if possible . If you ask a question where the only answers can be " yes " or " no " , you corner people . Rather ask them for possibilities or general statements . If you need to get to the station , instead of asking if someone can take you , ask them how to get there . If the other person wants to drive you , they will offer , otherwise recommend public transport . 2 ) Do not mention how much you love something . There is a high risk that people will try everything to get it for you . People might take a picture off their wall or take off their necktie and hand them to you if you start admiring something too much . If you want to make a compliment , rather praise their taste etc. . 3 ) Discuss methods to get something done instead of asking people directly to do something . While this of course is more applicable in a business field , this behavior is the main reason for frustration between foreign companies working with their Japanese subsidiaries . This is a more widespread issue all over Asia , specially in Boss/Employee relationships . Once you know how difficult it is to get something done , you can make an assessment if you really want it done , instead of expecting the other person to you that something requires
end question
start question
Are there air traffic routes that are turbulence-sensitive ?
Great question , I will try to give at least a partial answer . <URL> , CAT , is more prominent where there are high mountains . The mountains might direct air up , or suck it down etc. . Making the winds normally found at any given altitude mix in such a way that air pockets are born . One example are the <URL> . BOAC Flight 911 broke-up in flight in 1966 after experiencing severe lee wave turbulence just downwind of Mount Fuji , Japan . What might not be so easy to figure out are the <URL> . In the jet streams wind has a vastly different speed compared to winds of the surrounding air , transitioning such a barrier in a plane can cause a lot of turbulence . I do n't remember exactly how those jet streams work , but I believe there are some areas where they are more or less all the time , and some areas where they are not so frequent . They are formed in areas of high temperature differences . So I say yes , there are routes with more turbulence than others . However if there are any numbers on that I 'm not sure :( As far as I can tell you are simply more likely to encounter CAT in certain areas than others . The main commercial relevance of the jet streams is in air travel , as flight time can be dramatically affected by either flying with the flow or against the flow of a jet stream . Clear-air turbulence , a potential hazard to aircraft passenger safety , often is found in a jet stream 's vicinity . With this commercial relevance in mind I am not sure if the airlines try to avoid these potential problem areas or if the economic interests are too strong .
Generally speaking , US businesses are not allowed to do business with/in Iran ( there are some exceptions ) . In practice this means that American accommodation finders can not ( or will not ) offer accommodation inside Iran as this would run the risk of them breaking US law and getting fined immensely for it . Yes , with the current nuclear deal being a near-reality , this is likely to change soon . How messed up this is , is shown with that even many businesses that are not American but do business with businesses in America choose not also do business in Iran , as that can result in them being banned from doing business with the US ( or be fined accordingly ) . Stay on top of things with information directly from the US treasury : <URL> An article on what the nuclear deal could result in , business wise : <URL> A ( year old ) article on that the US penalises foreign companies and individuals for doing business with/in Iran : <URL> A recent article of the German Commerzbank being fined heavily , in the US , for obfuscating financial transactions with Iranian entities : <URL> The Couchsurfing website has users in Iran .
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
According to the website <URL> there are no direct buses between Edinbugh Airport - Dundee and vice-versa . Example : 16/5/2013 Depart Edinburgh Airport approximately 9.00 am gives you three options . if you choose the 9.30 am this will be your route , arriving at Dundee Bus Station at 11.32 am If you then depart Dundee on 18/5/2013 at approximately 4.00 pm you are given the following options : If you use the 3.40 pm departure your route will be as following arriving at Edinburgh Aiport at around 5.24 pm Obviously this is an example , as I do n't have the specifics of your journey , but no there are no direct buses for your specified route .
Yes , there are definitely squat houses in Paris Today , in contemporary paris you can find alternative political and cultural activity in various squats or social centers . These are abandoned buildings ( often government owned ) that have been occupied and re-appropriated by groups of artists , performers , activists , musicians or just people that need a roof over their head . Paris has seen many years of this squatting tradition and though many of them have been closed down , a lot are opening and some have managed to become legitimate and are supported by local municipalities . Some squat houses have been closed due to health and safety but are still available to look at For example the very famous squat " electron libre chez robert " which is situated right in the heart of Paris at 59 rue de Rivoli was once said to be the 4th most visited tourist attraction of Paris and so was closed to the public a couple of years back due to health and safety precautions . However , when walking by rue de Rivoli you can still admire the eccentrically decorated facade of this typical Parisian apartment building . Some Squat Houses can be viewed Les Frigos Many squats are home to the ateliers and workshops of artists , the " Les Frigos " for example is home to about 100 artist ateliers , although nobody lives there . This 80 year old building was once a giant refrigerator producing ice hence its name which means ' the fridges ' . Now it has been re-appropriated by numerous artists and its facade is filled with some impressive graffiti and mural art <URL> an immense building ( about 5000m3 ) with around 15 people living permanently and a collective of about 50 people occupying the ateliers and workshops on the three floors . They have a gallery which is very well known and often shows quite avant-garde work of upcoming or even established artists . As well , they often organize what is called a ' fête du quartier ' ( neighborhood party ) which includes concerts , performances , theatre and an " open scene " where anybody can come up and perform <URL> Not far from " La Générale " , in the 11th is a squat that was opened last year and has been very active in the neighborhood ever since . Installed in an ancient school , " La Petite Rockette " has established a very good name for itself with a variety of open courses ranging from capoiera to IT classes for the elderly . They have a very busy schedule packed with expositions , concerts and theatre . Their impact on the neighborhood is really evident and the fact that everything is run by volunteers makes it all the more impressive . As it is relatively speaking quite a new squat , there is a lot of energy and motivation to keep things active and fresh . Quoted information from <URL> 59 Rivioli is also a well known squat The 59 Rivoli is a building right in the heart of Paris that 's full of nothing but artist 's studios . There 's a gallery on the ground floor that has a new exposition every 2 weeks . In the beginning , it was a squat that was started by artists looking for a place to work , live and show . The artists opened it to the public 6 days a week . It 's now legalized and still open to the public who can come through and visit the artists . Unlike a gallery where you only see a small amount of the artist 's work , at 59 Rivoli , you get to truly enter into an artist 's universe where the work is actually created . Other useful links ; <URL> <URL>
There is at least one - the <URL> is located in the West stand of the 32,000-seat Stadium MK ! ( Home to the MKDONS ) Several of the room types feature views out over the pitch ( you 'd want the ones saying " With View " in the booking list ) , and the restaurant/bar has views out of the pitch . The only downside is that the executive rooms are generally unavailable on match days , as they 're used for hospitality , and someone on FT mentioned that not all of the fitness facilities are available on match days as apparently they get used by the teams ! The hotel is also only a short distance from <URL> , which is a must-visit for any crypto/spy/code-breaking / computer/history geek , and you can often get some stunningly good advanced-purchase deals at the hotel for weekend stays :)
I ca n't figure out if you are mainly asking about regulations or about possible differences between planes from the same model that might interest a traveller . If you want more details on the former , you might consider asking on the <URL> sister site but regarding the latter , there are definitely differences . Airlines can and do ask plane makers like Airbus or Boeing for customizations in interior design . Differences includes class configuration ( how many first class and business seats ) , the amenities and the seats themselves ( there are big differences especially in the premium classes ) , the size of the seats and the distance between the rows . Insiders call this the " hard product " . As pointed out in the comments , it 's even possible to change the interior configuration on an existing plane after delivery ( although immobilizing a plane for that costs a lot of money ) . Case in point , the <URL> ( a common choice for short-haul low-cost flights ) can be between 150 ( in a two-class cabin ) and 180 ( in a ' high-density ' single class configuration ) . Similarly , the Airbus A380 is certified for <URL> but nobody has ordered one with so many seats and each operator uses a different configuration , sometimes even two . Beyond that , some rows have to be further apart for operational reasons ( emergency exit rows , row at the front with the passage to the front door or a bulkhead in front of them ) . Traditionally , you could get a seat there by chance or , possibly , by being clever and asking for it while still paying the same price . But some airlines realized they could scrap a little bit of profit by selling those seats at a small premium . That 's the origin of , e.g. , Easyjet 's " XL " extra legroom seats ( they did not order new planes with specially designed " premium " seats , let alone a a kind of two-class cabin , they just happened to have 12-18 seats with more legroom on each plane already ) . One drawback is that you ca n't put anything under the seat in front of you on these rows . There is a website called seatguru with a huge wealth of information on seat dimensions and cabin configuration on various airlines . Glancing at their <URL> , you will see that seat pitch ( distance between rows ) ranges between 28 and 39 inches ( almost 40 % more ! ) across all planes and airlines . Similarly , seat width is between 16 or 17 and 20 inches . Bottom line : You ca n't assume that flying a given plane model guarantees you will have the same leg space .
Most <URL> indicate that now the Zimbabwean ATMs in Vic Falls dispense USD . <URL> indicates that : Barclays Bank and several of the other banks now have ATM cash withdrawal facilities accepting Visa and Master Cards and dispensing US$ cash . The limit is the same as your limit back home . Charges are $ 1.25 per transaction plus the charge from your local bank which can be 2 to 3 % .
Each of the 3 major global airline alliances have some form of " North American Air Pass " : <URL> <URL> <URL> These passes all have extensive conditions - generally they can only be purchased by a non-North American resident , and must be purchased in conjunction with an international airfare into North America . The specific conditions vary a little between the different alliances - the links above give the information on each .
The answer is both yes and no . Outside Bangkok , Thailand has only two roads that are " real " controlled-access , grade-separated motorways : Route 7 from Bangkok to Pattaya ( 150km ) , which has ( AFAIK ) Thailand 's solitary " real " rest area as well , and Route 5 , which loops around Bangkok 's periphery and which you 're unlikely to venture onto . So , no , you 're not going to find any " real " rest areas driving up from Malaysia to Bangkok . On the other hand , Thailand 's main highways are the country 's lifeblood and are thus full of gas stations , restaurants , motels , etc. . Quite a few of these cater more or less explicitly to buses and travelers and are thus rest areas in all but name , so yes , you can almost always find gas , a meal or a place to sleep when you need one . Not quite as good for hitchhiking as the real thing though ...
Tuesday is national museum closing day in France . Many <URL> are closed on Tuesdays , as are many local museums outside Paris . In Paris , most city-owned museums are closed on Mondays . Some museums are open later on one night a week , usually Thursdays . Most museums close on some <URL> but not all . There are many exceptions , so always check before you go . I think the reason why Tuesday was picked as a closing day is that normal people should be able to visit museums , so they are open on Saturdays and Sundays . Many shops are closed on Mondays , so museums are open that day for the sake of people who work in shops . In Paris , most shops are open on Mondays , so there is less point in opening the museums for their sake . Here are a few popular attractions ¹ that close on Tuesdays : <URL> <URL> ( national modern arts museum ) <URL> ( natural history museum ) <URL> ( Tuileries ) Here are a few popular attractions that close on Mondays : <URL> ( the grounds open every day ) <URL> ( classical arts ) <URL> ( indigenous art ) <URL> ( history of Paris ) <URL> ( municipal modern art museum ) <URL> <URL> ( may depend on the exhibition ) <URL> <URL> ( design ) <URL> ( arts and crafts ) <URL> ( La Villette technology museum ) Here are a few popular attractions that open 7 days a week ( except holidays ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> ( military museum in the Invalides ) <URL> ( wax figures ) <URL> has a list of museums in Paris with addresses , opening dates and times , and prices . At a glance , it looks reasonably accurate . ¹ Roughly , the top visited museums according to <URL> .
There exists a list with ratings of Bars playing heavy metal on <URL> , <URL> of course has an even larger one , and if you are looking for gigs you might want to check <URL> .
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
Those onsen requiring swimsuits are basically those in amusement parks or other trendy non-traditional facilities . Anything else , you can rest assured will not require swimsuits .
There is <URL> . I used it to plan a trip some time ago , but it is very shiny and therefor quite limited . But maybe you can use it for your needs ...
The French seem to go for very small and massive stores . There are some mid-size stores but these seem rather rare . In fact , the French are known around the world for exporting their retail chains and hypermarché [ hypermarket ] concept . These are most similar to American super centers , but genearlly have a focus on food and are between the size of an American supermarket and an American super center - they tend to be around 110,000 square feet ( vs. an average US supermarket around 60,000 square feet ) . In Paris you can find Hypermarkets including Auchan , Géant Casino and Carrefour Hypermarché further out from the center around and outside of the Boulevard périphérique . ( Note Casino and Carrefour also use their brands for smaller format stores so the adjectives are key to find the format you 're looking for . ) Also note that there are generally many speciality shops and market vendors in France , customers who are looking for variety or quality tend to frequent those instead of the often cheaper chain stores .
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
end question
start question
How far can I be from Britain and be in " British X " ?
Since you are looking for territories named , below is a non-comprehensive list of these , ordered by distance ( feel free to add more territories ) . All distances were measured using <URL> , using the search string as a starting point for calculations . <URL> : 5102.123 km <URL> : 5353.193 km <URL> : 6533.172 km <URL> : 6865.846 km <URL> : 9810.779 km <URL> : 14054.549 km <URL> : 15075.884 km ( computed by pinpointing a region roughly at the centre of mass of the territory )
I do n't have a Hostelworld membership , but I emailed them to see what the official stance is ( without anyone risking getting their card invalidated ) . From Louise Clark on the customer service team : Thanks for your email . Gold Cards are registered to one email address so all bookings made with that address will be automatically discounted . You can also enter the Gold Card number when using a different email address and the discount will still apply . This is not limited to a certain number of email addresses . So it looks like the answer is : enter in the membership number on as many bookings as you 'd like from as many email addresses you 'd like . :) Happy traveling !
To get a visa on arrival , you need to apply online for a pre-approval first . There are many agencies ( I used visa-vietnam . org several times ) , and they work fine , as long as you apply online several working days in advance . After a few days , they 'll send you a visa approval document which you need to bring to board the plane . Note that you can only use visa-on-arrival if arriving by air ( not if crossing the ground border from Cambodia/Laos/China ) . Vietnamese embassy officials in Bangkok are rude and corrupt . When I went there , they insisted on higher-than-posted visa fees . It also involves 2 trips to the embassy unless you opt for an expensive express service option .
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
I ended up being tweeted an answer - from a TEFL teacher in Thailand : <URL>
I was in Corfu in 1995 , so this is not the most up-to-date information . As far as I know there are no " The Corfu of Gerald Durrell " tours , but nothing to stop you going and seeing the places where he lived and wrote about . The best known is " The White House " , which was a private residence when I was there and could be viewed but not visited . According to <URL> it is now a Taverna . That article is actually very helpful and will giv eyou an idea of what to expect . It also lists some direct flights to Corfu from the UK .
Dont know about Dubai , but Qatar ID Number is of 11 digits . First digit will be 2 , if you are born in 20th Century i.e. on or before 2000 . 3 if you are born after . 2nd &amp; 3rd digit is your birth year in yy format . 4th , 5th , 6th digit is your nationality code , same for same country . Last five is your sequence number of entering country first time , with somebody entering at 01 Jan 00:01 will be 00001 . So , no , two work visa numbers for two different persons will not be same . Although same person re-entering Qatar after getting first visa cancelled will get same number as earlier . Note that this applies to Qatar ID Numbers . The temporary visa you need to enter and get the RP process completed may be totally different .
Detroit 's Devil 's Night , was , generally speaking , more about arson and fires , than vandalism and personal injury and death . Be aware that the city has been combating what is now called " Angel 's Night " since the mid-90 's and for most of the early 00 's , the arson levels were near normal . There was a slight increase in 2010 and 2011 , but for the last two years , the damage has been , relatively speaking , light . As far as the concert , just be aw wary and aware as if attending any other big-city large-crowd event . Do n't flaunt wealth , stick to lighted areas as much as possible , and go with the crowd . Detroit 's population is only fraction of what it was even two decades ago . There are fewer total people ( around 700,000 total , as of 2012 ) , which , of course , means less taxes , which means less police and fire departments . Those that are left , however , seem to be more likely to go along and get along than ever before . You 'll notice , as you read this , that I 've not linked any articles . If you do a Google/Bing search for " Detroit Devil 's Night " and " Detroit Population Change " , however , you 'll find many useful articles corroborating my statements . The mass media popularizes the bad things , but then , it 's a city , and crime happens . As you are specifically asking about Angel 's Night ( or Devil 's Night as it used to be referred ) , it 's not the fire-filled event it used to be .
Low-cost airlines operate on a model called ' <URL> ' , one implication of which is that every single leg of your journey is a separate one . As <URL> , some LCCs refer to ' hubs ' and in fact many of them ( especially Asian ones ) do operationally maintain hubs , but that 's for their own logistics handling . For customer , most LCCs issue a disclaimer along the following lines in their terms and conditions ( following taken from <URL> ) : If you have booked an onward flight with easyJet , this represents a separate contract . Please note that easyJet does not operate a connecting flight service , where you choose to book such an onward flight this will be considered to be a separate Journey and therefore you will need to check-in with your luggage for each Journey in accordance with the check-in requirements below . Consequently we advise that when booking an onward flight with easyJet , you allow at least two hours between the scheduled time of arrival of the incoming flight , and the scheduled time of departure of the onward flight . They also given good advice on what you should do in case you do plan to book flights on multiple carriers : leave enough of a gap between them . If you get travel insurance , check whether it covers missing connecting flights as grounds for compensation claim . easyJet also offers a premium rate flight fare called ' Flexi ' and they <URL> . At higher rate ' Flexi ' fares you are n't charged booking fees and are free to make changes to your flight dates within a specified period , but the fares are also higher so in some situations you might just find booking Flex-fare priced tickets the same as buying tickets from a full-cost airline !
There 's a simple third option -- do n't change your booking . You 've booked it for a month , so it 's yours for a month , it 's not the host 's problem if you leave before the full month is up .
According to <URL> : Draftable males classified as Overseas Taiwanese are exempt from the draft provided they do not reside continuously in the Taiwan Area for a ) more than four months at a time for those born in 1984 and before or b ) more than 183 days in a two-year period . There is a reference on that quote but it 's now a dead link . It seems likely that you would be classified as Overseas Taiwanese because you do not live in Taiwan .
It appears not , <URL> : Making your booking and taking your flight The DEFRA Export Section ( Dogs and Cats ) will advise you of the current documentation and vaccination requirements for your destination . We will also require a health certificate from your vet to show that your pet is fit for air travel . When you make your booking you will need to let your travel agent or British Airways booking representative know that you will be travelling with a pet . Your pet will not be able to check in with you but will be handled professionally by British Airways World Cargo , a cargo booking will be required which can be requested through the local British Airways World Cargo booking office . On the day of travel , deliver your pet to the British Airways World Cargo Office . The travel container will be checked and the appropriate charges collected . Please check local payment options when making your booking .
You can look up a comparable flight for today on <URL> . This is best done as close to your date of departure as possible , as terminal use may change occasionally . You can usually see tomorrows flights as well . For example : <URL> <URL> The websites of the respective airports will also usually have this information , especially the outbound airport . Terminal info on arrivals varies between airport websites .
Yes , but it 's a bit fiddly . If , when you are booking , you are either logged in with a BAEC Silver or Gold membership active ( BAEC silver and gold get seat selection for free at the time of booking ) , or you are doing a ( not logged in ) search for a fully flexible ticket ( full fare tickets get free seat selection at the time of booking ) , then almost at the end of the booking process before entering your credit card details , it lets you pick a seat : At that point , bring up the seat selection tool , and see how many seats are free on that flight . If not enough , go back and pick a different flight . If so , go back and pick the fare class you really wanted to book on . Expect to take a minute or two per flight you check , by the time you get to that bit of the booking ! Remember that this will only show if you 're doing a search when logged in as a BAEC Silver or Gold ( other BAEC tiers or other OneWorld status wo n't work during the booking process ) , or when doing a fully-flexible search when not logged in . Otherwise , some travel agents can look it up , and they can also look up how busy the flight is in a general sense ( how many tickets for sale in each cabin in each fare class ) . If you care , it might be easier to get a good travel agent , ring them up , have them look at the loadings then book you onto the flight with the loading / seats you 're after .
Its not a myth . Its simply a case of supply and demand and well , economics in general . If demand increases , and supply remains the same ( you ca n't build hotels quickly ) then prices will go up . They do go up . To give you a simple example of this , I am booking hotels in Amsterdam for a technical conference in November and I am not finding any available rooms , and all room rates are almost double what I paid last year . This was confusing for me so I called one of the hotels and they informed me that there are two other conferences and a concert going on during the event , which is why rooms rates are different as they only have the premium rooms left . Even if you were to discount that as something that could be avoided , almost all hotels have at least these different types of rates : The walk-in rate ( most expensive ) The corporate rate The online rate ( at their website ) The online rate ( at other sites/resellers/travel agents ) The preferred rate for loyalty card members . The rate for rooms when booked as part of a business conference . Seasonal rates ( based on travel seasons - ie , Christmas/New Years , etc. ) These are all different prices for the same room . As a general rule prices go up when : There is more demand than supply ( busy season , weekend , etc. ) The later you reserve ( last minute seats , walk-in bookings ) This applies to both airlines and hotels ; and other similar hospitality/entertainment/travel industries like amusement parks , concerts , trains , buses etc. . So not booking a weekend but booking on the weekend compared to booking during the week . If that is true it would actually be a very interesting point to consider . As a general rule it does not matter when you are booking - it matters when the actual booking is , relative to the current time . So if you were to login on Christmas Day , to do a book for March 1st , you would actually get a cheaper rate than if you were login on April 15th and do a booking for March 1st . For hotels specifically , it also matters what type of property it is . You can easily observe this by booking at business hotels ( or those that are near airports ) . These properties will have drastic price differences if you are booking on the weekend or during the week . A booking during the week ( for example , checking on Monday checkout on Wednesday ) is more expensive then checking in for the weekend - because they are busier on working days than weekends . Compare it with a resort or family-focused property and you 'll see for the same dates and the same class of room , completely different prices . Online though , there are other things you have to watch out for . There was a case some years ago from Orbitz that would change prices if you were browsing the site from Apple devices . This <URL> at USA Today highlights the details and includes evidence that Delta was doing similar tricks for the pricing search . I am sure since then practices have become more complicated and there are variable number of points that go into pricing of fares for both flights and hotels ( and then , of course when you combine the two with a package ) .
Short answer : Nothing out of the usual . The days of bandits roaming the mountains seem to be long gone . According the <URL> , the main risks are pickpocketing and theft from cars , the same as in <URL> and the <URL> ( and pretty much anywhere in Europe ) . Landmines were laid on the Kosovo-Albania border in the 1990s , but <URL> they were all cleared out by 2006 .
You probably want to ride the Airport bus from the ICN to Dongducheon ( # 7001 ) - the closest town to Yeoncheon , and take a taxi from there . It will save you time , money , and headaches . : : EDIT : : I am sorry that I did not carefully read your question . There is a way to get there . You can use what is referred to as " 콜택시 " and reserve a ride with a fixed price . Only operates in Korean , so ask a friend to arrange it if you ca n't yourself . <URL>
From a colleague who had a similar itinerary ( only knew major stops ) the following seems to be all you need in your itinerary : All major stops - where you are staying in large cities eg what hotel you will stay at in Tokyo , along with dates Start and end dates , including flight information Rough timelines on less well known information If your itinerary changes , this should n't be too much of a problem , assuming your end date and flights are still correct . My colleague had to change his itinerary , so kept his original printout , along with an updated one in case he had to tell authorities that he had planned one set of trips but had to change to a different version . As it happened , he did n't need to inform anyone of the changes and had an excellent visit .
Not being a lawyer and being myself a citizen from a Schengen and EU member state , I do n't have any direct experience with this kind of issues so that everything I will say should be taken with a grain of salt . Still , I am wondering if it makes any difference in practice ( and , incidentally , how frequently this could really happen ) . It seems that a long stay visa from one of the member states of the Schengen agreement ( which is not a Schengen visa as the Schengen agreement only covers short stays and each member state remains mostly free to establish rules governing long stay visas as they see fit ) gives you the same rights , in other member states , as a " uniform visa " ( i.e. multiple entries in the Schengen area for a maximum of 90 days stay in any half-year ) . This <URL> seems to support this interpretation . According to this webpage , what you have to do to be able to enter France again after 5 months is to go back to the country that delivered the long stay visa ( i.e. Germany in your example ) , just as an " uniform visa " would require you to go back to a non-Schengen country to avoid using up your 90 days quota . One thing I do n't know is how you can go about documenting the fact that you did leave France if you travel by road instead of taking a connecting flight since there are no border controls between France and Germany . That 's the main practical difference with the uniform visa situation as external Schengen borders are guarded and you would get an exit stamp on your passport but the 90 days rule applies in both cases . ( You mentioned France as an example and I looked it up in French but I believe those rules were defined in some EU directives so they should apply for other Schengen countries as well . ) Most importantly , a long stay visa from Germany ( or any other Schengen country ) does not entitle you to stay in France ( or any other Schengen country ) for as long as you wish ( i.e. Germany can not deliver long stay visas for France or vice versa ) so that in both cases you are really using your right to make a short stay in France . Only after 5 years of residence in Germany , will you in fact be entitled to a long stay visa in France ( actually a " titre de séjour " , this is not a visa but a separate document ) but this has nothing to do with Schengen , this is a EU rule that does not apply to non-EU Schengen countries ( and also not to the UK , Ireland and Denmark , despite their being EU members because they opted out , see <URL> ) . It probably also applies to Switzerland via their bilateral agreements with the EU but I am not quite sure . I suspect that having this right recognized might not always be trivial in practice . Additionally , I understand that there are complex rules regarding airside transit . Depending on your nationality , you might be entitled to visa-free transit in international airports of some or all Schengen area countries , so technically needing a visa to stay in the Schengen area does not automatically imply requiring a visa in your scenario .
You may consider going to Chios and then to Cesme . Here is more information : There are many different options from Piraeus to Chios . Prices start from 22.50 $ . From Chios to Cesme , I have found one line for 25 $ . <URL> has the information related to pricing and time tables . You need to select your departure and arrival points from the menus .
end question
start question
Would visiting North Korea as a tourist cause problems travelling anywhere else ?
Most North Korean visas are issued on <URL> , not in your passport , and are thus not a problem . Likewise , on entry and exit , they will stamp the paper and not your passport . Even if you do get a visa in your passport , as far as I 'm aware no country has a policy of actually refusing entry to people who have visited North Korea ; certainly neither Japan nor South Korea do , even though they 're technically at war . It certainly is the kind of thing you may expect to get a question or two over though .
A number of airlines will append your title ( MR , MRS , etc ) to your first name when they issue your boarding passes , so it appears as SURNAME/FIRSTNAMEMR . It can appear this way on the gate agent 's terminal as well . I have not had any personal experience with Aegean Airline 's system , so can not say with 100 % certainty , but likely you are OK .
I 'm not sure I qualify as a newcomer anymore , but I 'll make up for it with my enthusiasm for karma whoring :) As Gayot Fow has already stated , the answers to your questions are : No No Yes To explain why , it boils down to the fact that as far as the EU is concerned , the " Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus " ( TRNC ) does not exist and the Republic of Cyprus ( ROC ) has authority over the whole island . <URL> , and because EU citizens are allowed to travel freely in the entire territory of the ROC , they 're also allowed to cross over to the TRNC the Turkish-occupied bits of the ROC freely . However , if you 're not a EU citizen , things are more complicated . First , the ROC gets upset if you attempt to enter from the North , because in the ROC 's view -- and this is where we enter the bizarro-world of geopolitics -- the border between the TRNC and the ROC is not really a border , and you 've been in the ROC ever since you touched down at Ercan airport . So if you knock on the gate of the " actual ROC " at Nicosia , and they realize you entered the " theoretical " ROC without going through ROC authorities , you 're now an illegal immigrant ! What about spending long periods of time in the TRNC without ever contacting the ROC then ? If you 're a European citizen , that 's fine ; but if you 're not , you 're an illegal immigrant as far as the ROC is concerned , at least in theory . Back in reality , though , they not only have no authority over you , but they do n't even know you 're there , and you 'll only run into potential trouble if you 're silly enough to enter ROC with TRNC stamps in your passport . Other states in the EU , though , will share the likely opinion of my fair reader at this point : " My head hurts , make it go away . " Which is why the Netherlands , or any EU country except maybe Greece , does not care about your TRNC stamps . The only potential issue will be applying for the visa , as EU embassies in the ROC will likely require proof of ROC residence and embassies in Turkey will require proof of Turkish residence , and you wo n't have either . Neither will they accept any proof of residence issued by the TRNC authorities , because in their opinion the TRNC does n't exist . So applying for the visa in your home country before you leave may be the easiest solution .
If you miss the first leg of your trip , you will be treated as a " no-show " and the rest of that trip will be cancelled . If you had a flight XYZ-PHL-LGA and wanted to get off at PHL without finishing the journey , that is okay because you do n't need the rest of the trip anyway . Most of the time , your seat will be given to someone on standby . If you have checked luggage , it might take some time to retrieve . This is also a good way to lose your checked luggage ... :) Sometimes , sneaky travel agents can actually save you money by making these kind of tickets , where you are booked onto flights that you will never use , just because the airline has a campaign that ends up cheaper than a normal fare . The airlines do n't generally like this , and it is always at your own risk .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
Yes , most Icelandic people speak very good English , you will be fine . Their language is indeed called Icelandic , and is fascinating in regards to its history . From wikipedia : The oldest preserved texts in Icelandic were written around 1100AD . The majority of these texts are poems or laws , preserved orally for generations before being written down . The most famous of these , written in Iceland from the 12th century onward , are without doubt the Icelandic Sagas , the historical writings of Snorri Sturluson ; and eddaic poems . With regards to learning a few Icelandic phrases , as with anywhere , people appreciate non-native speakers making the effort . " Takk " for " Thanks " is an easy one for starters . Some of the pronunciation is nigh on impossible for English speakers who have n't been exposed to it before , so do n't think you 'll attain even a basic grasp without a lot of study ! Their <URL> scheme is charming , and you may also be interested in the <URL> and how people derive their <URL> . " Z " was removed from the alphabet in 1973 .
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
The solution to the language barrier problem may be much simpler than relying on the immigration to provide the interpreter for the native language of your family member . Given that he/she is coming from your native country it is much simpler to do one of the following : Find a person on the plane who speaks one of the major languages as well as the native language of your family member . My mother-in-law does it all the time . When she arrives she asks to come through immigration with that person to help her understand what 's being asked and she had no problems on her numerous visits . Ask the air crew for the same help . Yes it may require them to stick around longer then they would normally would but they normally speak at least one language in addition to the native and on most international flights ( if not all ) you will be able to find a person in the crew that speaks the native language of the destination country in this case France . He/She can try to arrange it prior to departure this service definitely is available for kids traveling alone but you can try it for your relative .
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Unfortunately , I do not have a positive answer to this question . I have been looking around the web for a few days now and I am almost sure there is no such museum . I have been through the <URL> with the help of Google Translate but with no luck . There is not even one comment about such a museum in any website . I think I can safely say such a museum does NOT exist in South Korea .
Most North Korean visas are issued on <URL> , not in your passport , and are thus not a problem . Likewise , on entry and exit , they will stamp the paper and not your passport . Even if you do get a visa in your passport , as far as I 'm aware no country has a policy of actually refusing entry to people who have visited North Korea ; certainly neither Japan nor South Korea do , even though they 're technically at war . It certainly is the kind of thing you may expect to get a question or two over though .
The <URL> ( 沖縄クラシックカー協会 ) has a <URL> atop a garage specializing in , you guessed it , classic cars . All visitors welcome . In Ginowan on the main island , not far from the US Army base , so I imagine they 've had the odd long-nose visiting in the past . Open Mon-Sat 8:30 -18:30 , <URL> . The one problem for you is that they appear to specialize in the one thing that 's neither Japanese nor American , namely European cars .
No if you remain at the airport , have at least 6 months of validity on passport and have proofs on onward flight . Source : <URL>
You should be fine . All entry points across the country are synchronized to use the same records , so any notes made in San Diego will be visible next time you enter , regardless of where you go . That said , there is a ( small ) risk is that the CBP officer did not completely fix up your records , so when you leave the country , your exit is not tied to your entry . If yes , because the US has no record of you leaving , you might be considered an illegal overstayer and get stopped the next time you come . If you have proof you left the US , eg . an entry stamp into another country , you can sort this out on the spot ; if not , things could get hairy . In a sane country , this would be sorted out at exit immigration , but Uncle Sam does n't have that . If you want to check , you could write to the CBP FOIA department and request a <URL> , which should show your entries and exits , and then you can ( try to ) take action if your exit does n't show . All that said , the mix-up with your niece sounds bizarre and confusing . As a wild guess , I 'd guess somebody screwed up some data entry when they were processing your visa , although I still do n't understand how they could possibly substitute your niece 's details . Which visa do you have , and did she sponsor your application or something ?
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
As you say , Monaco is part of Schengen Area , which means there are no internal border controls between Monaco and its only neighbour ( France ) . So you certainly do not need a visa . No one 's even going to look at your passport . Quoting <URL> : Monaco has an open border with France . Schengen laws are administered as if it were a part of France [ ... ] I 'm not sure about EHIC . But you have some sort of travel insurance from your home country , do n't you ? If you do , it very likely is valid in Monaco too . If you do n't ( and you travel ) , consider getting one . Edit : UK 's Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office has a <URL> that directly answers that part of your question ( emphasis mine ) : Monaco is not a Member of the European Union and therefore EU reciprocal medical arrangements do not apply . The European Health Insurance Card ( EHIC ) does not provide health cover in Monaco . It is essential that you have comprehensive travel and medical insurance cover . So do get a travel insurance . Other than that , there is nothing about going to Monaco you should especially worry about , even if you 'll technically be outside EU . Regarding your final question about getting to Monaco : it is easy and there are lots of options , as e.g. <URL> . For instance , you could take a train from Nice , Cannes , Menton ( France ) or Ventimiglia ( Italy ) . Or <URL> , which I can recommend : it takes a lovely seaside route and costs just 1 $ . ( If still in doubt , you should ask more specific questions about getting to Monaco from a given place ! )
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
It is indeed a ( national ) collector 's coin . <URL> , but not elsewhere in the eurozone . Even in its country of origin , I could imagine that many people would be surprised to receive one or perhaps even refuse to believe that it is genuine . And looking at the photos you can find on the web , I must say that their design is strongly reminiscent of old Franc coinage , which would only add to the confusion . I can add that I have been living in the eurozone since it was created and even worked as a waiter for some time ( during which time I have seen many banknotes and coins ... ) but I have never seen such a coin . By contrast , <URL> should be accepted and do circulate widely .
To directly answer the title question , yes , non-business travelers can absolutely benefit from airline loyalty programs ( i.e. earning points/miles as well as status . ) Whether it 's worth it for you in particular , though , will be extremely dependent on your particular situation and what options are available to you on the routes you normally fly , as well as whether you typically need to take luggage , etc. . Since specific examples were requested , I 'll use myself as an example . I live in the Southeast U.S. and fly round-trips within the U.S. typically a few times per year and inter-continental round-trips about once a year . While there are sometimes slightly cheaper advertised fares to my domestic destinations on some of the very-low-cost airlines , by the time I add all of the fees and other associated costs of flying one of those airlines , they would often end up costing as much or more than Southwest or Delta . This is especially true due to the fact that the very-low-cost airlines usually have infrequent flight schedules that are much more likely to require me to take an extra day off of work than with an airline like SWA or DL where flights leave about every hour . So , in the end , Southwest or Delta usually ends up being the lowest actual cost to me and both earn points/miles on every flight that do n't expire ( Delta miles do n't expire at all and Southwest points remain active as long as you have at least some account activity once every two years . ) As far as redemption value , this again varies widely and will depend very largely on your use case . For me , these two programs are my primary options due to where I live : Southwest In the case of Southwest , you typically earn 6 points per dollar spent on the cheap fares and can redeem points at a rate of 70 points per dollar of airfare . If you purchase the ticket with a Southwest co-branded credit card , you earn 8 points per dollar instead of 6 . So , without their card , you get a dollar worth of airfare for every $ 11.67 spent on airfare and , with their card , you get a dollar of airfare for every $ 8.75 spent . Delta Delta 's scheme is much more complicated and can range from much more valuable to much less valuable depending on your situation . For my situation , it 's more valuable . Earning miles With Delta , you earn 5 points per dollar of airfare as the base rate . If you buy the ticket with a Delta co-branded credit card , that goes up to 7 points per dollar . If you additionally have status with Delta , you get an additional 2 , 3 , 4 , or 6 points per dollar based on your level of status . In my case , I get 10 points per dollar total at my current status level ( which came entirely from personal travel , not business travel . ) Note that there is no bonus or penalty to this for different fare or cabin classes , but you inherently earn more points on more expensive fares since it 's based on dollars spent . So , if I buy a $ 200 round-trip fare , I earn 2,000 ' miles ' regardless of fare class , distance actually traveled , etc. . Redeeming miles While miles are earned on a dollar-cost basis , mileage redemption with Delta is ( loosely ) based on an award chart , with mileage cost depending on region traveled to/from and demand for that particular route ( i.e. usually only a few seats are available at the lowest mileage costs on a given flight . ) If you book early , domestic round trips usually start at 25,000 miles ( sometimes 20,000 , but this is less common . ) If you book a $ 200 round trip for 25,000 miles , that 's obviously not a great value ( less than 0.8 cents/mile value . ) However , the ' regions ' are quite large , with the entire U.S. and Canada ( excluding Hawaii ) being a single ' region . ' So , if you book a $ 500 trans-continental round-trip for 25,000 miles , that 's obviously a much better value ( 2 cents/mile , which is equivalent to $ 1 of airfare earned for every $ 5 of airfare purchased at my earning rate of 10 miles/dollar . ) The best redemption values I 've seen on Delta are for long-haul business class flights with 140,000 miles getting you a business class ticket to the other side of the planet that would normally cost $ 7k if bought with cash , a 5 cent/mile value . So , if I 'm earning 10 points per dollar of airfare and redeeming for 5 cents/mile of value , that 's 50 cents per dollar originally spent ( i.e. $ 1 of airfare earned for every $ 2 of airfare purchased ! ) In my case , this is exactly how I prefer to use the points , as I 'm not really a fan of flying economy ( and , thus , getting no sleep ) on routes that involve 30-36 hours of travel time ( 20-22 of that actually airborne ) each direction . Conclusion for a non-business traveler If you only ever travel short distances , always buy the cheapest tickets , and do n't earn miles separately from credit cards , then you 're probably never going to get up to 140,000 miles . However , 25,000 miles is certainly very attainable for the non-business traveler , since the points do n't expire ( $ 2,500 of total airfare purchased at my earning rate . ) An extra $ 500
No , it is not . They will take a sample and run it through an opioid test ; which looks like this ( image from <URL> ) : <URL> Next , they will probably wonder why on Earth would someone carry laundry powder in their luggage . The people you need to worry about are customs enforcement , and not border protection ( although sometimes , these are the same agencies ) .
end question
start question
Can I carry roller blades in cabin baggage ?
I took my roller blades on board . There were no problems with roller blades at the airports . Airline company does not check what is inside . It is up to the airport security .
If I travel to a destination in Europe that is outside the UK ( my home base ) , I take 100 Euro in cash . There 's no need for more because ATM 's are available . If I go outside the EEA , like to the US or Africa , I take 200 in Sterling and the equivalent of 100 dollars in local currency ( like Canadian dollars for example ) . My rationale is that if more cash is needed , then something extraordinary has come up where there 's a problem anyway . The exception being Russia . Although you are supposed to be purely Rubble in everything you do , you only need about 3,000 Rubble with the rest in Euro . What Mark did n't mention in his answer ( +1 from me by the way ) is for the generic case where you travel a lot . Then it can be better to keep <URL> . They can help prevent your <URL> in both directions . I keep a Dollar account along with my Sterling account just for that purpose . Talk to your bank if you think that a denominated account can be helpful for you . These types of accounts are available at most of the major banks in the US . Adding from commentary If you are going to be driving and the country levies on-the-spot speeding ( or whatever ) penalties , make the cash amount in local currency enough so that you will be able to pay there &amp; then . Or expect to have your car impounded until you pay in some countries . Update ( 5 April 2015 ) You have updated your question to now ask " What types of things is he likely to need cash for ? " In the Netherlands ( and most of the EEA in general ) , he would likely need cash for ... News agents Small grocery stores Traffic penalties Tips Older style taxis and gypsy cabs Open air market vendors Charity donations ( including cathedral collections ) Illicit items ( out of scope here ) The most consequential of these are penalties which are actively intervened by the police ( as opposed to violations caught on traffic cameras ) . Penalties can vary , but in all except the most egregious cases are less than 50 to 70 Euro ... Foreign offenders will be fined the penalty payable in the country of the offence , but fines vary across Europe , with Germany levying $ 10 for a minor speed offence while France fines offenders $ 68 ( or $ 45 if paid promptly ) . Source : <URL> In the Netherlands , speeding penalties are calculated with a mathematics formula , but it would be extraordinary to see a penalty exceeding 35 Euro if you are clocked within 6 km/h of the limit . Violations that are caught on camera are dealt with by a penalty notice sent to the registered owner . For visitors it means the rental agency will pay the fine and debit your credit card for the amount plus their handling fee .
Yes . I have seen small bags that could have been carried going around on the baggage belt . I have personally checked a bag larger than a purse , but small enough that it could be carried on , on several occasions with several different airlines . Some important considerations : can you close it completely and securely ? If you mean " handbag " like the North American word " purse " , not all such bags zip shut , they may just have a clasp . You need to make sure nothing will fall out no matter how the bag is turned , dropped , thrown etc. . Does it have prominent handles ( as some purses and backpacks do ) that might catch on handling equipment ? If so you should work out how to constrain them - bungee cords , wrapping in plastic , or the like lithium batteries , including spare laptop batteries or external batteries for phones , are not allowed in checked luggage . If you have such things you will need to move them to whatever you are carrying on . You may be charged a fee for each bag you check Other than that I do n't expect a problem . I have yet to meet an airline that had a minimum size limit for checked bags .
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
I am operating with an MLC backpack both on plane and at conference and if it 's slightly larger than the locals daypack -- oh well . It would work less well with a rolling carry on of course . eBags Mother Lode Convertible ( I used this before ) , Tortuga , Patagonia etc etc the list is endless of these backpacks . ( I am experimenting with a Magma Control-Backpack XL currently but unless you also want to carry on a 19.5 " monitor , that 's probably not the best choice . ) Another solution is to put the 240gr Bach Itsy Bitsy backpack ( which I also have ) in the carry on ( or checked in ) . The backpack is big enough : even my T420 laptop + sleeve fit in there and provides structure . Your laptop is likely thinner and lighter . Unlike most such collapsible backpacks this is strategically reinforced where necessary so while it 's very low weight you can carry like 4-5 kgs in it without a problem . Probably even more but I did n't dare to test further . Finally , you can just carry your normal laptop backpack ( my choice is the Briggs &amp; Riley Verb Activate but many are good choices , this just happens to be the best :P ) and a small duffel ( there 's no competition here , the Red Oxx XS Aviator is where it is ) as a personal item and check in everything else in a suitcase . I did this before as well .
For Germany : The most inconspicous backpacks are either Jack Wolfskin or Deuter . Seriously , while traveling it is like a lighthouse : Hello , compatriot ! Other popular brands : Arc ' teryx , Eagle Creek , Tatonka , The North Face , Thule , Vaude or special brands like PacSafe . But you can always use a cheap No-Name brand : They are also quite often visible . For moving under the radar : No Hawaiian shirt or boxer shorts , especially on the beach . Do not smile automatically at people . It is not that you can not smile , it is more that you here either smile slightly the whole time because you are in a good mood or this likeable man/woman addresses you now . It is difficult to explain , but there is a typical subconscious smile which appears at once at eye contact that tells people at once : " Tourist from the USA " . You are allowed to ignore people or remain silent as long as no one addresses you and it is also no problem to look back if someone looks at you . It is a widespread habit in Germany that people are sitting outside in a Cafe/Park and watch the passersby . Using " Paris , France " or " Berlin , Germany " is also a sure sign of an US-Tourist : No European uses the country name for cities because the names are unique .
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
As long as you have spare baggage allowance , you remain landside , and you allow sufficient time , you should n't have any problems checking an additional bag . You might get a query , but as long as there 's time and spare allowance , it ought to be fine . ( If you 've used your allowance and want to pay to check another bag for only part way , you may have more issues as they may struggle to price it , YMMV ) There 's a few times when I 've actually done this very thing , almost always involving duty free and an onward domestic flight . What I 'll often do is put a rucksack or similar at the top of my suitcase , which is otherwise full , then buy some duty free before boarding my US-bound flight . On arrival , I collect my bag before customs , clear customs , then find a spare bit of space before the re-check counter . Here , I take out the rucksack , take out some clothes that do n't mind getting bashed about , and re-pack the suitcase with the duty free safely in the middle . ( We have a question on that topic ! ) . I drop the suitcase off . Then , I head over to the counters , show them my boarding pass , and ask to check a small bag . They scan the boarding pass , check the allowance , print a new tag for the rucksack , and away I go . However , the last time I did this , they gave me a tag for my rucksack , then sent me over to the baggage re-check area to drop it off . This meant queueing up with everyone else , and having the baggage handlers take the piss out of me for wanting to re-check such a small bag ... !
If you hire a car service , the driver will usually be able to assist you door to door ( with a suitable tip , of course ) . The advantage to a hired car is that the driver will be able to park it in the garage and help you with the luggage from your living room right up to the airline counter -- whereas a taxi driver will be loathe to leave their ride . Car services are popularly thought to be the province of the super-rich but if you price them out , they are actually not too extravagant , especially given the circumstances here . When you call the dispatch ( reservations center ) , tell them about your medical condition and ask them if they can get you a driver who wo n't mind helping you with your luggage .
Airlines tickets usually report the amount of allowed checked baggages . Hand luggages are usually taken for granted . However , in this particular case , the <URL> says : When you travel with SWISS , we will transport a certain amount of your baggage free of charge for you . The quantity and weight of this free baggage is clearly defined , and vary according to your booking class . So I guess ( if you travel in economy class ) you are allowed one 23 kg checked baggage plus a 8 kg hand luggage . Additional info on <URL> and <URL> can be found on the same website .
In general , as long as the box meets the size and weight restrictions for carry-on luggage , you can bring it into the cabin . Luggage restrictions generally do not concern the material from which the luggage is made .
Etihad has <URL> listed that you agree to by buying a ticket . Section " 15.2 BAGGAGE " states the maximum values of claims that can be done , please refer to this section for the amount that you can claim . The " 8.8 COLLECTION AND DELIVERY OF CHECKED BAGGAGE " section states that : 8.8.2 Only the bearer of the Baggage Check and Baggage Identification Tag is entitled to delivery of the Checked Baggage . We accept no responsibility for checking the identity or authority of the bearer of the Baggage Check and Baggage Identification Tag or for checking that such person has any right to collection . 8.8.3 If a person claiming Checked Baggage is unable to produce the Baggage Check and identify the Baggage by means of a Baggage Identification Tag , we will deliver the Baggage to such person only on condition that he or she establishes to our satisfaction his or her right to the Baggage . So essentially , you agreed that you can not receive the luggage from them ( lost and found or as a normal luggage transport from the belt ) if you do not either have the tag or proof that the luggage is yours . However , section " 15.4 PROCESSING OF BAGGAGE CLAIMS " does require you to provide proof of purchase for the items you wish to get a refund for , but does not explicitly require you to have a luggage tag to process the claim as such . They should process your claim and search for the luggage and also refund you if you can produce the proof of purchase for the lost items . Please note that there are many factors in this topic such as where you live , if this was a code share or not and so on . Further , a lot of items are often excluded from claims such as laptops and valuables . You might want to discuss first with the airline for what you want to have a claim , if they will refund the lost items in the first place according to their rules and then check if it is worthwhile to proceed with a claims process . If you can not claim refunds for any of the items lost since you do not have proof of purchase or if the items are excluded anyhow , a claim process might not be meaningful in the first place . IF they claim that they do not have to run a claims process for you , ask them about the policy and where this regulation is stated . Their conditions of carriage on their website do not allow the conclusion that a tag is required for a claim process .
Since the other answers are nonspecific , I 'm going to answer myself by saying what happened on my trip this week . The truth seems to be " it depends on the airport " , so do n't count on it . The first thing is that Norwegian does n't appear to like gate-checking strollers , which was the point of the question . From Helsinki to Stockholm , the people at the bag drop wanted us to check it . They give you a plastic bag , which is probably as robust as a cheap duffel bag . From Stockholm to Helsinki , when we went to the bag drop they said " That 's a <URL> . You should just fold it up and put it in the overhead bin . " ( It fits comfortably in the bin . )
This happens quite often ( although not as often as it used to ) . Mine was lost probably around dozen times or so . Always made it to me though . You should file a written claim with the airline right at the baggage claim . This usually involves signing the custom forms for international flights ( the airline would clear the luggage through Customs for you ) . You should ask whether they will deliver it to your hotel/apartment/home , and insist they do ( they usually do , unless it is your fault , such as late checkin ) . Note that in some countries - Russia , for example - the airline can not clear Customs for you , so you would have to be at the airport anyway . In this case ask the airline to provide the transportation , or reimburse the transportation costs . You should receive : a ) the claim number and b ) the local phone number or web site URL where you can check the status of your bag . Some better airlines have an Android/iOS app which you can use to track the bag return . You should also ask if any compensation by the airline is due because of the delay - the rules are complex and may depend on origin-destination and connecting airlines , so self-research might be more difficult here . There are rules that the bag is considered lost ( and compensation due ) if it is not delivered within a specific number of days - even if it is found later - worth asking about this too . If you have travel insurance , call the insurance company and file a claim . They typically give you allowance for delayed luggage , usually $ 250-500 a day . Note that your spending has to be relevant to luggage loss ( i.e. not movie tickets ) , the reimbursement is not automatic - you have to submit your receipts for approval - and they do n't pay if the luggage is delayed on your return trip .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
Assuming you 're driving a regular passenger car , the <URL> ( Czech wiki link ) for Czech Republic is : Spare <URL> Spare light bulbs <URL> Wrenches Spare tire ( or tire patch kit , if the tire is patchable ; or neither , for <URL> ) Medical kit Emergency warning triangle Reflective vest So no , you wo n't need a spare tire . The maximum fine for violating this law is 2000 CZK ( ~ 75 EUR ) , however the police rarely checks passenger cars for compliance .
There 's <URL> So provided they are n't so heavy as to be a potential " blunt instrument " weapon , you should be ok . If they 're in original packaging , that might help . Of course , they do n't have to let any items through , restricted list or not . You may also wish to check the website of your airline , for their prohibited items list . I 'd be suprised to see any consumer electronics on there , but better safe than sorry . You 're more likley to get in trouble at the other end . I 'm not clear on the exact regulations for Switzerland , but you are likley to be liable to pay duty and VAT/Sales Tax on imported items . <URL> says that Switzerland would apply an 8 % tax to imported graphics cards . You can of course go to the " Goods to Declare " window/corridor at customs , but this may eat into your saving significantly .
The TSA actually has <URL> on their website : You may bring skydiving rigs with and without Automatic Activation Devices ( AAD ) as carry-on or checked luggage . Typically , a rig will move through the checked luggage or carry-on security screening process without needing physical inspection . However , TSA security officers have a duty to thoroughly inspect any item that raises suspicion . If security officers determine that they need to open a rig to inspect it , you must be present and will be allowed to assist . For this reason , we encourage skydivers to add at least 30 minutes to the airline 's recommended arrival window when they are traveling with their parachutes . Fox News also has <URL> which mentions it , along with pot-bellied pigs and monkeys ... : Skydivers need to add 30 minutes to their arrival time because although you can carry on your skydiving rigs , with and without Automatic Activation Devices ( AAD ) , security may choose to open a rig to inspect it . You must be present and will be allowed to assist with the inspection . Of course , given the pressurisation issues of a cabin , the speed of the plane , and other factors involved in an emergency , the odds of you being able to use it successfully are extremely ... small ...
Absolutely ! And not only you can , it is one of the best ways to explore the City ! My favourite place to start the journey is from Hyde Park - right by the Serpentine Lake is a nice place to eat a sandwich and start skating , while you see some people dancing on rollers and quads . There are also some places to rent inlines in case you ca n't take yours with you near Hyde Park ( <URL> and <URL> come to my mind ) . They usually provide skate pads as well . You may want to attend the <URL> ( London Friday Night Skate ) weekly meetings - on Fridays and Sundays - , which are very well organised and safe , as they always have marshals holding the traffic while the rest of the people just enjoy the ride . It is run by volunteers , and the people is just great . I ca n't recommend these rides enough . If you want to go solo , you can either go by road or on the sidewalks ( but please be careful if you do so ) . The police officers will not disturb you unless they find that you are annoying the rest of the pedestrians . By the way , keep looking the road ahead of you , as London roads are far from perfect and there may be holes in the ground or even rubber cables crossing the road side to side . Some other must-skate places in London are Greenwich park , Kensington and Chelsea boroughs and Oxford St. / Regent St. ( these one on Sunday mornings , as they are a bit too crowded otherwise ) .
This trick is used by many Piece of Plastic on bottle before you close the cap That will prevent spills . After that put it in ziploc type plastic bag Check at home before you put it in luggage .
end question
start question
Should I tip if I get free amenities delivered at a hotel ?
Although I 'd never presume to tell people what they should do , it would be quite common to tip for delivered housekeeping items such as a toothbrush , toothpaste , extra soap , extra pillow or whatever . The only thing I 'm ever likely to ask for is a toothbrush and/or toothpaste if I 've forgotten mine , and I often do n't have local currency on me . So , sometimes I have tipped and sometimes I have n't , but must say I feel a little guilty for the latter . For something like this , personally I 'd tip something like $ 2 unless I was asking for something extraordinary . What happens in some hotels is that they understand that this might be an issue and will bring up the items and hang over the door handle , knock and leave . If you rush after them you could tip them . Alternatively , ask at the front desk when you check in , especially for toothbrush and toothpaste kits . Often they have them behind the front desk and will give them to you without anyone feeling uncomforable giving/receiving a tip . If they have a shop in the hotel , it can be cheaper buying the item than getting it free .
Tipping is for the service , the menu price is for the food . If the service is bad , leave a small tip . This will show the wait person that you did n't forget to tip , but felt that their service was undeserving . On the converse , it is important not to leave a poor tip if the food was bad but the service was good . The wait staff can not make the food better and should not be punished for that . If this is the case , I would probably not go back to the restaurant again . I can get a better/different waitperson next time , but the number of chefs is much more limited .
I am living in Brazil ( Rio Grande do Norte ) and I can tell you from experience that tourist staff will not be able to understand anything beyond the most basic phrases unless this is a specialty of your hotel or resort . You 'll probably be able to get " Cardapio em ingles " ( english menu ) at almost anywhere though , with the items numbered and more or less translated understandably , the prices may well not be listed or even different than the other menu . Im in no way connected to this company , but CVC viagems is a really well known travel agent franchise who would be able to arrange payment/transit/orientations for you in the cities and major resort areas .
If the duty-free liquid is in a sealed plastic bag , with the receipt clearly visible , and you do not open the bag , you should be fine : <URL> On board your connecting flight departing from the European Union , you may transport duty-free liquids purchased at your departure airport or on board , as long as they remain in a sealed plastic bag . You must keep the receipt and make sure it is clearly displayed in the sealed bag . The receipt must list the airport or airline company through which your purchase was made . Similar rules are in place in the United States : <URL> You may carry liquids more than 3.4 oz or 100 ml in your carry-on bag if : You are traveling internationally to the United States with a connecting flight . They are in transparent containers . You bought them at a duty-free shop where it is packed in a secure , tamper-evident bag .
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
I see five ways to salvage the situation . Spend the night in Milan and leave early on the following day . You will then be in Antibes around noon . Take the train to Ventimiglia and spend the night there . On the following day , continue to Antibes . You will then be able to arrive in Antibes in the early morning Rent a car in Milan , drive to Antibes and drop it there . It 's a 4-5 hours drive . You will then arrive on Antibes in the late evening . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and continue to Antibes by taxi . You can expect this to cost around 200 EUR . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and then a train to Nice . The last trains leave at 21h49 and 22h40 from Ventimiglia . Nice you can take a taxi . Cost ~ 70 EUR
Those tips seem way too high . To put those figures in perspective , legal minimum wage in Haryana ( state next to Delhi and one of the richest in India ) is 5,800 rupees/month , and there are plenty of unskilled workers ( live-in maids etc ) getting paid much less than that . If you tip somebody Rs . 1500/day for a month , he 's making almost 10x that ! I 'd revise those figures to something like this , but please bear in mind it 's been a few years since I was in India and these may be on the low side by today 's standards . Local Guides : INR 200/day for a personal tour ( on top of the agreed fee and only if he 's done a good job , that is ; do n't fall into the common trap of " pay me what you like " and then being pestered for silly amounts at the end ! ) Drivers : < INR 50 for airport transfers INR 100/day if it 's just point A to B , wait around , and back again . Maybe 200 if he 's driving you around all day . If he 's overnighting , his accommodations should be accounted for in the base price ; again , be sure to sort this out beforehand . Hotel Porters : INR 50 per bag Housekeepers : Hotels often have central tip boxes that get shared out to everyone , and ~ 5 % of your bill is generous ; if you want to tip the housekeeper alone , maybe INR 50/night ?
Tipping a filling station attendant is not generally expected in the United States or Canada . Some guides <URL> it is ever expected , though others <URL> there is <URL> on the matter . Anecdotally , in all the times I 've been in Oregon and New Jersey , I have never seen or heard of anyone tipping the attendant simply for pumping gas , except to leave them the change when paying cash ( I have not used a full-serve pump anywhere else in the US or Canada in over 20 years , and can not even think of where to find one ) . Fifty years ago , a good attendant might have checked your oil and coolant levels , wiped the windshield , and checked your tire pressure in addition to filling the tank . An increase in electronic sensors and decrease in drivers ' patience over the years means such attention is rare today . In most places , " full serve " is not really full service , and simply the term used to indicate that an attendant is working the pump . With that noted , except where banned by local ordinance , attended stations charge a higher price , which is understood to cover the wages of the attendant for the basic work of filling the tank and collecting payment . Moreover , unlike a food server or barber , or even barista , there is very little social interaction with the attendant , and tipping usually accompanies more intimate or longer-term interactions . As an etiquette columnist wrote for a <URL> : Tipping is customary only if there are both full-serve and self-serve options at the station and the fuel is priced the same at both . This would exclude areas where self-serve is banned altogether ( including the entire states of New Jersey and Oregon ) , which is borne out by anecdote -- the only people who tip in New Jersey are <URL> . But when extra service is rendered , some tipping may be in order -- various guides suggest $ 1 -- 2 for cleaning the windshields , and at least $ 5 for any work involving getting on the ground or checking under the hood . As <URL> will note , tipping someone working in a service job is always appreciated , and never impolite . Pumping gas is a monotonous , fume-infused job which is at best unpleasant , so I would give some consideration particularly when the weather is hot , cold , or wet .
No , Switzerland is supposed to reject the application and invite you to apply to the French consulate . Even staying the same length of time in both countries might not be enough , as attending the conference is clearly the main reason for your trip , which makes France the main destination . In practice , you could still try . In principle , they should not refuse the visa but merely decline to process the application , which means that you should get back the visa fee and the documents you submitted and there would be no record of a negative decision . So the damage should be limited and you do n't risk much by trying . But it 's still unlikely to work ( and it does take some time , obviously ) .
I did the same last year , I just printed the ticket page and took it along to Spain . No snail mail involved .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
Based on the way that rate is presented on the website you pointed us to , I would say that it is simply a discounted rate , that is called an " Innkeepers Rate " ie a special deal offered the Innkeeper himself/herself . Hotels can get quite creative with their discount program names trying to build the perceived value . Most professional rates , such as the innkeeper rate mentioned in the link in Spehro 's post , are not posted on websites , rather they are only revealed to qualified patrons . Many hotels offer special rates to different professional groups : travel agents , airline employees , corporate employees with special contract rates , etc but these rates are never revealed to the general public .
1 to 3 months is not too long term to get travel insurance . Many insurance companies offer travel insurance and there are many options depending on what you want covered , how much you want to cover it for , and the duration of the coverage . Your travel agent might only suggest one company though which may not be the cheapest or best . They seem to have some kind of exclusive arrangements in my experience . One factor is the cost of healthcare in the destination countries . For travel to the United States the general recommendation is to get " unlimited " health coverage , which is of course the most expensive . For property theft and damage , Visa Card provides a kind of automatic travel insurance on items purchased with it . I do not know if Mastercard has the same policy . I did n't want to do too much searching so I stopped at the first one that seemed to answer your question . I have never used them so do not take this as a reccommendation . <URL> advertises " long term travel insurance " and says " Indefinitely extend your policy while you are away " . There are some restrictions which should n't affect you such as being younger than 66 years and being from one of the countries in their list ( I noticed Yemen was n't included ) . Also the price depends on whether or not you will enter these three countries : USA , Canda , and Japan
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
end question
start question
How to visit Edinburgh during a layover at Edinburgh Airport ?
Everything you need to know is on the airport 's <URL> . The short answer is yes , easily . The fastest , but most expensive , way is just to take a taxi . Follow the signs to the taxi rank , should take around 20 to 30 mins to get into town and budget around 25 pounds one way . You can pick up any black cab on the way back . Trams are 8 pounds return , run every ten minutes or so ( officially every 8 to 12 minutes ) and go down Princes Street which I 'm guessing is the <URL> you wish to go to . You can get off on the terminus or just after it turns off Princes Street . Journey time is around 35 minutes . Similarly the Airlink bus is 50p cheaper , takes about as long , runs about as often and stops at Waverly which is a short walk . There are local buses that are much cheaper , but they take a long route and stop a lot , I doubt it 's worth it . So , even if you want to get back to the airport two hours before departure you 'd still easily manage two and a half to three hours in the city . Time enough to go shopping and grab a bite to eat . Of course you 'll have to clear security when you return to the airport , and this can take a looong time during peak hours . They 've redone the security area so it 's faster now but it can get very busy . Also if you 're pulled over for further screening you may need to wait in a queue for that . Basically I would n't try cutting it too close . I 'm also assuming that you can legally enter the UK . I guess any big bags will left on the plane but for what it 's worth there 's a <URL> service at Edinburgh airport . There 's also one at <URL> but the airport one is cheaper .
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
Ok , the comments have given a suggestion about booking another berth , which is impractical if you are concerned that the baby may actually roll over . Some practical tips to consider You can either book a first class or a 2-tier AC berth ( if you are travelling 3 tier AC already and are considering a second ticket for the kid , it may work out cheaper to do this ) , and ensure that you get a lower berth ( which is tough unless you book early ) , the berth in a 2-tier AC or First AC or First Class compartments are much wider than the one in other classes and can give enough room for the kid If you really want this substantiated you can see ( <URL> ) which has pictures and detailed measurements . If you like to be a bit bold and can convince co-passenger the way I did with a year old daughter you can look to replicate what I did . I used to make a cradle in between the seats , I will have to draw up something to explain ( and kindly forgive my horrible drawing ) , you tie a sufficiently long piece of cloth i.e. a saree or something that 's circa 2 metres long and tie it up to the top berth , since the train only shakes sideways this would actually provide a very comfortable journey to the kid ( if he is used to sleeping in those age old cradles made with a similar style at home it would be even better ) . <URL> The third option is to get two lower berths and actually carry a small flat cradle into the compartment and make the baby sleep in it , like this : <URL> I have only thought about this never did this for my travels . Happy sleeping
Assuming you arrive in the domestic terminal and leave from the international one , I would first go over there and try to check in early , just to get that out of the way . It is always risky to leave the airport and get into suburban traffic when you have to catch another flight , especially an international one . Your time is limited and I would n't spend too much of it in downtown . However even getting there is interesting enough . I would suggest just taking the <URL> from O'Hare to Clark/Lake ( 1h ) , then go up and change into the <URL> , this is an elevated train ' The L' that goes around the loop , so you have some views over downtown Chicago . Get off at Washington/Wells and walk back to Clark/Lake ( 5 blocks ) to get back on the Blue line to O'Hare ( 1h ) . With only 2.5 hours to spend , this is a very tight schedule . Photo credit : <URL> To make things worse , the Blue line leaves from near terminal 2 , to get there to/from terminal 5 takes at least 15 minutes each . I would only try this , if you had checked in already , so that when getting back to the airport you would only need to go through security and to the gate , meaning you do n't have to be back at 11:30 but maybe at 12:00 or even 12:30 . It would be easier if you could check in through to Tokyo in Boston and do n't have to worry about luggage and checkin in O'Hare . You could also not go downtown , but just look around one of the West Side neighborhoods for a short while . Just take the Blue line to Belmont or Logan Square , spend some time there and then go back . There is nothing too special there , but you can get a feel for Chicago outside of the loop .
As an Indian national with a US Visa transiting a French airport you do not generally require a visa , as you can TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) . Presuming you are passing through Paris CDG airport , then this is true even if you have to change terminals as there is an air-side bus . ( At Paris ORY airport some transfers can not be made airside and will require a visa ) . However TWOV will NOT allow you to enter the country , and the Eiffel tower is not even slightly visible from either airport ! Thus to visit the Eiffel Tower - or any other part of Paris - you will require a visa . As you are planning to leave the airport , you are most likely after a Schengen " Short Stay " visa , which will have to be issued by a French embassy due to the only country you 're planning to visit being France . Unfortunately this means that it 'll end up being a relatively expensive visit to La Tour Eiffel .
There 's a great <URL> on this very topic . But yes , as far as your backpack goes , most backpacks seem to have raincovers these days . I also carry an emergency poncho for myself , although I 've only ever used one once ( Iguazu Falls ) . In addition you can wrap your clothes in plastic bags INSIDE your backpack . Do n't forget to double bag your electronics . Clothes can dry , not all electronics can . You can also put plastic bags around your shoes , if it 's really wet , but you may find it hard to walk in them . Best answer is to seek shelter as soon as possible , and then do what the locals do .
The airport itself is in the middle of nowhere , I do n't think there is any walkable attraction around but the public transport connections are very good . If you did not plan to go there during the next days and did not have to worry about a small kid , taking the train to the center of Amsterdam would be the obvious choice . I do n't know Hoofddorp itself but note that the area was a lake until the 19th century . The city was created from scratch after the land was reclaimed so you should not expect a typical historical Dutch town ( but that might be interesting in itself ) . The pumping stations and the countryside in the vicinity ( <URL> and the area around Buitenkaag and the <URL> ) are definitely worth a visit if you are interested in the history of the landscape but they are not so easily reachable and you would need more time than an evening to go there . As far as restaurants are concerned , iens.nl is probably the most popular website in the Netherlands . <URL>
It is possible , but you have to plan well . Here are my tips : <URL> . The metro from the airport to Dubai Mall will take anywhere from 30-45 minutes . It starts from 6 in the morning ( except on Fridays , when it starts at 2 PM ) . There are 9 stops before you get to the mall . The metro only runs from Terminal 3 and 1 , if you are in Terminal 2 , you 'll have to catch a bus to the station ( or hop in a taxi directly to the mall ) . Plan to spend a good 30 minutes walking from the metro station to the entrance of the Burj Khalifa viewing platform . It will take you anything from 10-20 minutes to reach the mall from the metro stop , ( since its on the other side of the highway ) . The metro stop will drop you on the second floor of the mall , near Bloomingdales . From there you 'll have a nice walk to get to the Burj Khalifa entrance , which is in the basement on the far end . It will take you 45 minutes to enjoy the tower more if you ca n't avoid the many photo sessions for which you will be stopped . Then its pretty much reverse the route to get to the airport ; another 30-45 minutes . Count on this being an hour or more since you 'll most likely stop for a drink or a snack since none are allowed in the tower 's observation deck . Then you 'll have to check-in at least 2 hours before ( more , if you are not on Emirates or Qantas , as the terminals get very busy - especially the immigration and security lines ) . I 've personally waited 20 minutes in immigration alone - nevermind security ( there are no priority queues here unfortunately ) . To really enjoy your trip , and to not be rushed : <URL> . Take a taxi to the Dubai Mall . Taxis are available from every terminal exit . You 'll have to stand in a queue ; but these are often empty . The taxi service is exceptionally good since they are all highly regulated . The ride to the mall should take less than 30 minutes . All taxis stop at the lower basement ; which will save you a lot of walking in the mall . If you are carrying luggage with you , there is a <URL> at the mall in the basement in The Village . There is left luggage service at the airport , but its at the metro station . Take a simple stroll through the basement to the Burj Khalifa view deck entrance . The tour will be an easy 45 minutes . Once you are done , you can stop by the fountain ( which is also in the basement ) and get something to eat at the various restaurants in that area ; as you 'll have plenty of time ; since its only been 1:10 since you left the airport . Now you have some time to relax at the mall or walk around . Make sure you pick up your luggage at the drop off and walk towards the taxi queues ( which can fill up quickly ) . Taxi services are are very well organized . You do n't have to stand on the street or hail them yourself . There will be marshals that will guide you towards the cabs . Give yourself 15-20 minutes to make your way towards the taxi stands . Depending on traffic it may take you 20-30 minutes to get to the airport ; as the exit out of the mall goes through the financial district . Arrive at the airport and check-in . Your total time : 2-3 :30 hours .
According to the website <URL> there are no direct buses between Edinbugh Airport - Dundee and vice-versa . Example : 16/5/2013 Depart Edinburgh Airport approximately 9.00 am gives you three options . if you choose the 9.30 am this will be your route , arriving at Dundee Bus Station at 11.32 am If you then depart Dundee on 18/5/2013 at approximately 4.00 pm you are given the following options : If you use the 3.40 pm departure your route will be as following arriving at Edinburgh Aiport at around 5.24 pm Obviously this is an example , as I do n't have the specifics of your journey , but no there are no direct buses for your specified route .
So now that I 've done it , I 've got some good tips . FIRST THING 'S FIRST . I SWEAR TO GOD , IF YOU CARVE YOUR NAME INTO ONE OF THESE TREES , I WILL HUNT YOU DOWN MYSELF . That being said -- I landed in Arcata airport , where I rented a car from Hertz right in the airport . They 're open pretty late and also rent to people as young as 20 , so it 's pretty damn convenient . From there , things get cool . If you 're impatient and want to see giant trees NOW , like I did , drive south to Humboldt Redwoods State Park . It 's only 50 miles down Highway 101 , and if you follow the signs for the Avenue of the Giants , you 'll be seeing massive trees in less than an hour from leaving the airport . The Avenue of the Giants is pretty long , and it 's not one straight road -- it takes a turn in at least one place . I followed it as far as the famous Drive Thru Tree , although that particular tourist attraction is pretty damn lame . Turns out it 's privately owned by a business who charges you something like $ 6 to drive through the tree , and there was literally a line of cars in front of me , like at a fast food drive-through . I turned around and left . Drive Thru Tree is a waste of time , in my books . If you head back north on the 101 ( catching spectacular ocean views all the while ... one of the best driving highways in the United States , no doubt ) , from the airport it 's about 75 miles to Crescent City , which sits on the coast beside the premier Redwood destination , Jedediah Smith Redwood State Park , as well as three other parks : Prairie Creek Redwoods State Park , Redwood National Park , and Del Norte Coast Redwoods State Park . Crescent City is definitely the place to stay the night if you did n't come for camping . Find a motel or hotel or whatever . If you 're there for camping , Jedediah Smith has a ton of campsites . I think it costs a little money ( $ 10 ? ) and I 'm pretty sure you 're supposed to make a reservation , or at least it 's a very good idea . The whole place was full when I went on a Saturday in the summer . SPEAKING OF WHICH , when to go . I went during the summer , in full heat of July , and the parks were cool and not muggy . They were amazing . Go in the summer . <URL> which includes contact information . Now on to the good stuff . So , given a full day to spend anywhere , my vote is to spend it in Jedediah Smith like I did . You will not be disappointed . Everything you 're coming for , you 'll find here . What I did is head up the 101 from Crescent City to where it splits off on 199 , which brings you straight into the park . If you 're going camping , you 'll see a clear sign on the right for the Jedediah Smith Campgrounds . The entire park is very well marked with signs ; you wo n't have any trouble finding things . From the campgrounds you can cross the Smith River on a really charming footbridge to find yourself at the park 's central trail crossroads and starting point . If you 're not camping , keep going up 199 until you see South Fork Road on your right . Follow that across two bridges and keep right onto Douglas Park Drive , then onto Howland Hill Road . This will bring you directly to parking for Stout Grove , and for the park 's central trail crossroads and starting point . NOW FOR THE HIKING . Bring bug spray . <URL> It might be wise to wear long pants . In my experience , the most poison oak was near the Stout Grove parking area , where it is abundant . I saw almost none along the trails I walked , but I 'm sure it 's here and there . Stout Grove , which ( for those coming from the campground ) is across Mill Creek and up a little staircase , is really gorgeous and worth seeing . Full of massive trees . It 's the first thing you 'll see if you start from the Stout Grove parking area . I then spent my day hiking down Mill Creek Trail <URL> , which is the crucial thing here . If you want to go hiking in the Redwood forests , I ca n't imagine a more perfect and beautiful trail . Everything you 're dreaming of is on this trail , which follows the picturesque and crystal clear Mill Creek down through the park . I had done some research on the biggest trees and wanted to see the Grove of Titans , which by many accounts is extremely challenging to find , involving arduous hiking across difficult terrain . I can now tell you this is not true . I 'm not going to tell you where it is , but I 'll tell you that two hours of <URL> <URL> <URL> via Google was more than enough for me to pinpoint the grove 's location almost exactly without ever having been there , and walk directly to it . To be honest I 'm more impressed by people who do n't find it than people who do . If you keep your eyes open , it 's hard to miss , and believe me , it 's worth seeing . As you go along , if you 're looking for it , you 'll keep saying " This tree looks bigger than the others -- is this the Grove of Titans ??? " but you wo n't be sure . Trust me , if and when you find the Grove of Titans , you will know it beyond the shadow of a doubt . Absolute awe will settle over you . Having given you more than enough information to find
I hereby present ... The Exhaustingly Exhaustive Dubai Airport Shower Guide All prices and info accurate as of June 2014 . Marhaba lounge The <URL> in T3 Concourse A ( between gates A2/A3 ) has rather nice showers , easily on a par with a four-star hotel . A shower alone without lounge access costs Dhs 55 ( ~ US$ 15 ) , including towel and cosmetics kit ( shampoo , body soap , toothbrush , shaving kit , etc ) . Just beware that in the muggy Dubai summer , even " cold " water is lukewarm , and ventilation is kind of minimal so it gets pretty sauna-like pretty fast if you shower too long . Opening the cubicle door provides rapid relief though . Overall score , 8/10 . Full lounge access is Dhs 190 ( ~ US$ 50 ) , which gets you a buffet , internet access , and a buggy transfer to your gate as well . Bonus : Lounge access is <URL> with a " Titanium , Platinum or World " MasterCard if ( per the <URL> ) issued in the Middle East &amp; Africa , although enforcement appears to be a bit loose . Dubai International Hotel You can take a shower at any of the many <URL> outlets , including the one in Concourse A , for US$ 15 . Not tested yet . G-Force Health Club Access to the G Force Health Club gym ( including showers ) , at T3 Concourse B only , elevator to level 5 right opposite the elevators to the Gate A trains , can be purchased for Dhs 70 ( ~ US$ 19 ) for 1.5 hours . The gym is basic but does the job : treadmill , stationary bike , multipurpose machine , dumbbells . The shower , on the other hand , is rather nice , the amenity pack includes everything down to Q-tips and you even get a bathrobe . Plus water is cooler and it does n't steam up as badly as Marhaba 's version . Overall score , 10/10 ! Public showers There are clearly signposted free public showers in Coucourse A , near gate A1 right opposite the Le Clos wine shop . These look clean but no-frills , you 'll need to bring your own towel and toiletries , and there was a ( short ) queue when I came to take a look . <URL> Concourse B has a similar setup at gate B13 , and there are a few signs pointing the way .
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
It 's simply a " sniffing " device . You could say it " smells " for molecules of things such as explosives . <URL> <URL> There are a number of different varieties . Some have a throw away " swab " or thing that looks like a " piece of tape " on the end . In that case the swab is used once and thrown away . And the plastic stick is nothing more than a $ 2 plastic stick . Other devices are fixed and can be used more than once . The whole thing is usually just called a " swab " " chemical swab " " explosive swab " or the like . So you might say " they ran the explosive swabber over me at security , " or " they swabbed me with the explosive thingy at security , " or whatever . They might run it over you or maybe both you and your hand bags . It 's completely commonplace . These things are everywhere . I 've had it done say 25 % of the time I 've walked through a security ( whether at airports or elsewhere ) . I 've never had a ( false ! ) positive hit . ( I 'm surprised the OP mentions that it has not happened often to the OP - probably just a coincidence . ) Here 's the TSA explaining it in the USA case ... <URL> Notice it 's generally referred to as " swabbing , " " swabbed " . It looks like ( in the US ) this practice started heavily at airports in about twenty years ago ( 2010ish ) , here 's a video of it being done in a CNN article when the thing was news ... <URL> Note that the " insider " term for the technology seems to be " ETD " . Here 's one of the main manufacturers . You can buy some swabs from them if you want . <URL> Notice that all these systems are just profit centers set up by companies with government lobbying power , to make sales . ( I 'm not saying there is n't coincidentally societal advantage , but that 's the reason the system exists . ) The " ETD " thing works well for them because they get to sell BOTH the expensive device , AND the disposable swabs on an ongoing manner ( it 's like having a government contract for both razors and the blades ! ) A company will budget a certain amount of money , $ 20m , whatever , to use a lobbying company in the US Congress to push through regulations , on some level , so that devices like this have to be bought ; then in practice only a tiny number of companies can jump through the hoops to be suppliers . So as long as they can get return on the lobbying consultancy spend , it 's a winner . Job creation ! Here 's a large French company which is a competitor , Safran <URL> ( Those guys make everything for slaughtering/protecting people from rockets down to the swabs we are discussing . ) PS in answer to one of your literal questions , these things search for molecules , and have absolutely no connection in any way to radiation as such . If you think about it " detecting molecules in the air " is , in a sense , the same as " smelling " ... for that reason these things are indeed called " sniffers " or " explosive sniffers " or similar words in other languages . ( Note that radiation detectors for security points is an entirely and totally different technology . Indeed , it is the current thing that the lobbying consultancies are pushing through , these will soon be everywhere as well . )
Yup , with 12 hours it 's very feasible and I would definitely go for it . In order : Yes , there is a " <URL> " outside arrivals , rates $ 2-6 / day depending on bag size . However , why not just check in your bags for your next flight immediately , and only then set off to explore ? The easy public transport option is <URL> , $ 9 return including unlimited public transport in Montreal for the day , travel time 45 minutes plus depending on traffic . If you 're really pinching pennies you can take bus 204 to the nearest Metro station and connect ( $ 3/one-way ) , but this is more hassle than it 's worth . Customs/Immigration time varies wildly , but if it takes over an hour you 're having a really bad day . Flights from Mexico may get some extra attention though . If you already have checked in before you left the airport , an hour should suffice . Otherwise you might want to allow two hours . ( Official recommendation is three hours , but this is a bit silly . )
The <URL> mentions two interesting bits of information . First thing is , of course , that you should inform your airline of all particular needs you might have , for them to make the necessary arrangements . Secondly , according to the afore-mentioned website , airline staff is approachable in both Domestic and International terminals : Wheelchairs Travelers requiring wheelchair assistance are encouraged to advise their airline of their needs when making flight arrangements . Upon arriving at the airport , travelers with wheelchair or other special requests should approach an airline representative for assistance . At Domestic Terminals 1 , 2 , and 3 , airline staff can be approached at curbside and check-in areas . At the International Terminal , please proceed to your airline 's assigned counter or dial 1-6210 from specially marked phones at all terminal entry doors . Arrangements for assistance to and from other locations at SFO can be made with your airline . Moreover , <URL> also mentions security checks with dedicated lanes for disabled passengers , and their family/helper : Getting Through Security As part of the Transportation Security Administration 's ( TSA ) Diamond Self-Select program , dedicated lanes that allow families , individuals unfamiliar with air travel and travelers with special needs to go through security at their own pace are available at all SFO security checkpoints . Please visit the <URL> website to learn more about screening for travelers with disabilities and medical conditions .
British Airways provide a <URL> , including all about Flight Connections . I 'd very much suggest you read through that . To tackle the main bits , assuming you have a single ticket covering both legs of your journey : You will not pass through UK customs You will not pass through UK immigration Your bags will be checked through to your final BA destination , so wo n't have to be collected or re-checked . ( Check the baggage tags given to you at checkin to ensure they have been tagged all the way through ) If your starting airport is able , they 'll give you your second boarding pass If not , you 'll have to go to the flight connections desk to collect it On arrival , you 'll follow the purple Flight Connections signs , and have your boarding pass + passport checked You will have to clear security , which is upstairs from flight connections , before you enter the main departures area of the terminal As long as there are no flight delays on your inbound , 2 hours will be fine . Queues to get your boarding pass checked before security tend not to be too bad , and while security can be shocking at times , we 're talking 30-45 minutes at bad times . One thing to check when you arrive is what bit of T5 you arrive in , and where you go from . T5 actually has three buildings , linked by an underground shuttle train , T5A ( the main bit ) , T5B and T5C . If you arrive at B or C gates , and depart again from B or C , you can clear flight connections and security there , which is generally a lot quieter . However , if either flight involves the main A gates , you 'll have to do security there , which can have delays at busy times . I 've managed to find a CC-BY photo from <URL> which shows what you 'd see at T5A : This is at the far end of the Purple Flight Connections signs in T5A . To your right are the desks , where you 'd go to collect your onward boarding pass if you did n't already have it . To the left is the UK border , which you 'd have got to if you 'd followed the yellow arrivals signs instead . Straight ahead is where they 'll check your passport and scan your onwarding boarding pass , then it 's up the escalators in the background to get to security . You need to get your boarding pass scanned by 35 minutes before departure ( conformance ) , so with 2 hours you 'll be fine !
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
Why yes , there is ! And it 's well worth visiting ! The <URL> is located on the airport grounds , on the other side of the airport from the terminal . It 's a ~ 5 minute taxi ride away . You can see most of the highlights in an hour 's visit , alternately if you 're interested in aviation and want to watch the video pieces as well , you can easily spend over 2.5 hours there . Perfect for a layover ! The museum has a good collection of planes , from old to new , and the A320 " miracle on the Hudson " plane too . There 's quite a bit of history , information on how flying works , loads of info on the US airways flight , and friendly staff . When you 're done , they have a seating area outside where you can watch flights arriving and departing , as it 's very close to the active runways . It takes about 5 minutes in a taxi to get there from the terminal . There 's currently ( 2015 ) a flat rate $ 14 fare from the airport to the museum or back again . You can pick up a taxi outside arrivals , and to go back the museum staff will call a taxi for you . On arrival into CLT , head to the Charlotte Information desk in the arrivals baggage area , and ask about the museum . They should be able to give you a discount voucher , and point you in the direct of the taxi queue .
To <URL> , I 'd like to add the passenger perspective : If you know that you may vomit during the flight , prepare yourself : Have a change of clothes in your carry-on , in case you manage to vomit over your shirt and pants , plus a plastic bag to store your dirty clothes . Bring tissues , or a towel , to clean up . Make sure that there actually is a vomit bag in your seat pocket as you board , and move it somewhere you can easily reach , maybe get your neighbor 's one as well , just in case . Do please put the unused bags back , though . Talk to the crew , since they 're really helpful . They may even be better equipped than you to clean up the mess , so do n't try to fix it all by yourself . If you 're flying with a person you know may need assistance ( such as a kid that wo n't give you much advance warning ) , be on high alert during turbulence ( obviously ) , but also during pressure changes , i.e. take-off and landing ( same problem as altitude sickness ) . Best wait a few minutes to calm down any upset stomach before exiting the plane . to freshen up afterward , you may want to bring your toothbrush and toothpaste ( there are small enough toothpaste tubes so that you 're below the 100ml container liquid/gels rule ) . Alternatively , you can bring some mints/chewing gum ( thanks , @zuallauz for the suggestion )
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
end question
start question
How do I rent canal boat in the UK ?
The main agencies are <URL> and <URL> , although most of the individual boatyards are now on the internet , and you might get a better deal if you contact them directly . Google ' boatyard ' plus the region or the name of the waterway that you 're interested in . You are allowed to drive the boat yourself and you do n't need any kind of permit . If you have n't driven one before , the boatyard will give you a quick lesson when you pick up the boat - it 's very easy . Some of the boatyards do n't allow all-male or all-female adult groups ( i.e. no stag/hen parties ) . This answer is for the UK 's <URL> , i.e. canals , lakes and smallish rivers . The boatyards do n't allow you to take this kind of boat on large rivers ( such as the lower reaches of the Thames ) or out to sea . Insurance is usually included in the price of rental . Fuel is often extra . If you 're having the boat for more than about a week then you may need to pay to have the sewage/waste-water tank pumped out ( there are lots of boatyards that provide this service ) . Mooring is sometimes free ( e.g. at the side of a field ) and sometimes you have to pay ( e.g. at the side of a pub ) .
Without specific permission from a land owner the only type of trail you can use is a Byway . These are strictly speaking roads , but tend to be used primarily for recreation by the public , and are generally maintained as farm tracks . Some are designated as a restricted byway that do not allow powered vehicles . Byways are shown on <URL> Explorer maps as a long dashed green line , and as a long pink dashed line on landranger maps .
Most phones will work automatically in another country , but be forewarned that this does not mean there are no roaming charges or fees . You may even get a courtesy text or phone call to let you know that you are on roaming international data and the fees are quite high . For ATT ( at the time of this answer ) , the cost was $ 0.15 per megabyte of data used . If you stream a TV show or something you can quickly burn through several hundred megabytes of data in a day and rack up a healthy bill . To avoid this , you can call almost any carrier and just tell them you 're traveling abroad and they can activate a temporary travel plan for you . It may cost $ 100 or so maybe more or less depending on how much data and phone usage you need , but the plan will last a month and then disappear without disrupting your normal service plan .
Firstly , I have slept in plenty of hostels in the UK , without using a YHA card . Any hostel on HostelWorld or <URL> will let you stay there without any loyalty cards . Your best bet is to follow this approach : Go to Hostelbookers ( often cheaper than Hostelworld ) . Choose country , city , and dates . Look at the ones available . Generally they have dorms ( multiple people in a room ) from 3-30 ( ! ) , depending on the hostel . Evaluate based on amenities , price , reviews and the type - some are party hostels ( generally the atmosphere rating is high then ) , some are more low key and friendly . Check for things like - are families welcome ( you may not want kids around ) , does it have a bar ( often louder and drunker ) , and so on . If it 's a HI Hostel ( Hostelling International ) or a YHA one , you can get discount cards for those groups . Often however , you can negotiate on arrival if it 's not too busy , or ask for a discount for multiple nights - generally for smaller or owner-operated hostels . Book ahead , especially in summer - if you have a limited selection , some towns sell out fast at certain times , when festivals are on , for example . Sometimes you 'll start to see similar hostels - chains - in different cities ( eg The Point hostels in South America ) . This gives you an idea as to the standards and conditions and style of the hostel ( also Base in New Zealand , and Wombats in much of Central Europe - Austria and Germany ) . You sometimes get discounts for staying at the same chain - loyalty if you will . The Point used to give free drinks and a t-shirt . Go figure . Of your country list , one exception is Croatia . There are still hostels , but if you go to the Plitvice National Park , there are entire streets near the entrance with normal homes . They have signs outside with either ' no room ' , or a price - and you can rent a room in a house for a night . It was fantastic , private , and very reasonable .
Yes , you can buy UK train tickets online with the provision of collecting them at the station . The only problem is that ticket vending machines at stations typically only accept <URL> and thus with your foreign Visa / MasterCard , you may not be able to pick up your tickets unless it 's a chip-and-PIN card . For long-distance journeys , <URL> does has an international delivery option which costs an additional 7.50 GBP ( although if you book early you can also get cheap ' advance ' tickets ) . If you do have a chip-and-PIN card , then sites like thetrainline provide you a unique one-time ID - this , along with your card details allows you to print your tickets out at the station itself . For most short distance journeys , you can buy tickets at the station itself . This is not a problem when the station is staffed ( during work hours ) , but can be when it 's not as you will again find yourself unable to buy from ticket vending machines . You can buy your tickets on the train itself when the guard comes checking tickets , but the portable payment system they use usually does n't support anything other than chip-and-PIN cards . Even with chip-and-PIN cards I have often found payments do not get cleared ( PIN is accepted , but transaction is declined ) so it 's best not to rely on that . In that case you have to make sure you carry enough cash on you before you get on-board a train . You may also be interested in <URL> - you can find how much your savings will be by going to the ' train tickets ' section on most train operators ' websites . As mentioned in a previous answer , you also may find it <URL> .
We do it from Peru side . You have to go to <URL> port and buy one of the excursions they sell that could be just for a lake trip or you can stay one night with a family in Taquile or Amantani islands . That option is very recommendable . You also have the option to talk with a fisherman and negotiate a better price , but my advice is to buy a tourist excursion , because it 's not expensive and nobody there speaks English so you may end up visiting a beach or going to Bolivia because of a misspelling . " Can I see anything special ? " You will see how these people live every day without electricity and some other comforts of modern life .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
Final Update 10 April 2015 The government published their <URL> Update 17 March 2015 The Home Secretary confirmed before Parliament earlier today that exit checks would begin 8 April 2015 ... ... but hints at a possible exception for people travelling by coach Yes . The UK Border Force has been under pressure to implement exit checks for a long time , and have publicly targeted April 2015 as the start date ... The Home Office is working closely with key partners on the implementation of Exit Checks in April 2015 . We have looked closely at the best ways to implement Exit Checks for the various ports and operators , working with the grain of their operations as far as possible . Ongoing consultations are helping to ensure that Exit Checks meet the government 's objectives with the least possible impact on travellers . Barry McGill , Director of Exit Checks said : " We have made significant progress on planned solutions with carriers and port operators . The programme is building on this engagement to ensure that the technical delivery arrangements meet everyone 's needs " . Source : <URL> An earlier attempt to implement exit controls resulted in an <URL> from which the Border Force hopes to recover public confidence . For this reason it 's safe to assume they will be looking for a few scalps to show the media . If you are visiting the UK as a tourist or business visitor and think that you have overstayed and thus be vulnerable to being caught at an exit check , you can <URL> to determine if your circumstances were unavoidable . Alternatively , you can contact a <URL> to arrange a consultation .
The document you quote is aimed at those pursuing academic qualifications . <URL> , with some restrictions . From the linked document : You can : take your 30 days study in one go or over a number of shorter periods use the time for recreational courses such as activity courses or arts and crafts courses , eg horse-riding , painting or sailing study toward a qualification if the course is at an accredited institution You ca n't : use any of your 30 days to study English at an institution without accreditation
Most of Europe is in the <URL> treaty area . The UK is n't . You would need a Schengen tourist visa for sightseeing . And a transit visa is n't sufficient for a longer stay in the UK , either .
In the case of the UK , <URL> . These are discounted early-bird single journey fares , available in limited numbers and with strict conditions . Advanced tickets are valid only for the selected journey ( although they are changeable prior to departure ) and non-refundable . Turns out that <URL> , broken down per subsidiary . This page is automatically updated every day , since Advance Ticket sales open roughly as early as 12 weeks before departure . Note that the train journey will appear in the <URL> , and hence be available for reservation , only after the train timetable has been finalised and published . Moreover <URL> . This is to say that the opening of the Advance Ticket sales does not guarantee that a ticket for the journey can be booked .
So I found an answer in a <URL> , although someone may have a more detailed route , especially as it gets closer to the Olympics themselves .
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
For the most part , the 3.4 oz rule is n't strictly enforced , in the sense that they do n't normally physically check ever single container you have to make sure that it 's less than 3.4 oz . If it 's significantly larger than 3.4 oz they will normally be able to see that on the X-ray , and will physically inspect it . As an example , I travel with a can of spray deodorant that is around 4oz , but is only labeled with " 100g " , where other cans of the same product are labeled as " 4oz ( 100g ) " . To date , having gone through airport security probably over 100 times ( incl 5 times in the past 3 days ) I 've had them manually inspect it exactly twice . So if what you 're traveling with is close to 3.4 oz , you 're probably fine . However , if they decide to look at it , and it 's over 3.4 oz , then you 'll almost certainly lose it . It 's up to you whether it 's worth the risk/cost of losing whatever it is you 're trying to take through . If it 's a 4oz tube of toothpaste it 's a different answer than if it 's a 5oz bottle of $ 200 perfume !
A lot of this depends on how you value your points . First of all , fixed miles is a bad deal unless your stays are all of only one night at Hampton/Homewood ( and even then , unless you have a rate below 100 dollars all the time , it 's a questionable choice ) , or ~ 2-3 nights at other properties ( total dollar value of stay < 500 ) . Variable miles gives you 1 mile/dollar spent , whereas fixed is a rate of 100/500 per stay depending on the property type . At this point , you need to figure out the relative value of 5 HHonors points versus 1 Delta SkyMile . People value points differently , depending on their travel preferences . The best way to do things is to price out a few different hypothetical trips you might want to use your miles for , whether that be a flight to see family for Thanksgiving , or that dream vacation to Bangkok . Figure out the cost in points for each , and compare it to the cost in dollars to come up with a value per/point . The internet consensus , for the most part , seems to be that Delta miles are worth somewhere in the range of <URL> HHonors points , by contrast , are considered to be worth around <URL> However , as I mentioned , your own travel patterns will effect this heavily . If you mainly want to use the rewards to fly to visit family , you probably wo n't need a hotel - your valuation of miles is probably a bit higher . If you 're fond of taking road trips , and eschewing airports , maybe hotel nights are of more use - especially when you can use them at some low-demand locations with really favorable rewards rates along an interstate in the middle of nowhere . Do the math and decide for yourself .
Which Embera Community ? I believe there are several Embera communities ( including but not limited to Embera Drua ( Upper Chagres ) , Embera Puru and Arimae ) , and hence various different places one can be picked up along the Chagres on the way to the village . Hence this question is kind of on the broadish side according to TSE 's regulations . Nevertheless I understand that finding information on the topic is quite challenging , and I assume that for the purpose of your question any information to privately reach any village will do . So here we go . Visit Embera Drua <URL> explains how to visit the <URL> . It suggests contacting the village to arrange a private visit . More importantly , it mentions a rendez-vous point on the lake , which I assume is Lake Alajuela , at Puerto El Corotu . This might be the place you are looking for . As it turns out , the <URL> , with information on how to visit , and detailed instructions on how to reach Puerto El Corotu . Quoting from the website ( emphasis mine ) : Driving Directions from Panama City Take the Transístmica Highway to the community of Cabima . Or , to arrive quickly ( and bypass city congestion ) , you can choose to take the Corredor Norte to the " Colon / Las Cumbres " exit , where you will end up again on the Transístmica . Then , continue north toward Colon on the Transístmica Highway for 6.8 kilometers to La Cabima . There , you will see a Super 99 grocery store , Mr. Precio and a Pío-Pío restaurant in a small shopping center on the right . Turn right after the shopping center and pedestrian bypass . Immediately after turning , follow the road as it curves slightly to the left . Continue for 6.5 kilometers until you reach the Bayano Cement Factory ( Cemento Bayano ) . Turn left at the factory 's sign marked " Cemento Bayano . " Continue on for 8 kilometers until you reach a green and yellow one-story building on your left . This is the Panama National Environmental Agency ( ANAM ) station in Chagres National Park . Pull in and register as a park visitor and pay a small entrance fee ( $ 1 per person for Panamanians , $ 3 for others ) . Exiting the station , turn left back onto the road . Follow this road to the lake . This is the port of Corotú . Welcome ! You can park your car at the port securely . There is a police presence overseeing the port all day . Moreover , the website mentions the possibility of helping you arrange transport to Puerto el Corotu . Below are the contact details : Google Maps Meeting Point Curiously enough , <URL> which could also be interesting to you . It 's difficult to say if this is Puerto El Corotu , or even if it is for charter boats alone , or which community will be picking you up here . Nevertheless it 's still a valid clue in my opinion .
Certainly not . As a foreigner who lived in the UK for four years , I definitely only needed my passport for international travel . I used my New Zealand photo driver 's license initially for ID ( eg , to get into a bar ) , and then my UK one . For opening bank accounts and others where you sometimes require two forms , then you bring your passport . The UK is not like Russia or Uzbekistan where police on the street can and do stop you without cause and demand ID ( in my case , six times in one day in Tashkent , Uzbekistan ) . And in the event they DO need your ID , a driver 's license generally suffices - or they can go with you to your place of residence to get your passport if you for some reason got into serious strife . I can only think of a handful of cases that I needed my passport . To open a bank account , to prove my visa status for starting a new job , for renting a flat / staying in a hostel , and you definitely need it for hiring a car . I remember this one as I tried to argue it , but had to eventually go back home and get my passport . I was n't pleased .
Avoid the use of the word " fanny " , as it is slang for , ah , a woman 's front bits . Be very careful when referring to your fanny pack ! Also , if an attractive member of the opposite sex asks you if you have a " rubber " , double-check to make sure there are n't any chalkboards around because you 're probably being asked for an eraser .
The answer to all three of your questions is " It depends " . The only way you will get an answer is by asking the owner directly . If it 's beoing offered on AirBNB , then my assumption is that it is being offered much the same as any holiday rental . In that sense , the answer to 1 . can be inferred from if it is advertised as " whole property " or " private room " . 2 wil be at the discretion of the owner , and 3 . is likley to depend on the opinions of the owner and any local legal/regulatory requirements . As the boat is being advertised on AirBnB , my assumption would be that it is being offered in the capacity of accomodation that happens to float , rather than as a watercraft . Again , all the above is an assumption , you will need to contact the owner to know if that really is the case . If you are interested in a holiday on a yacht that moves around , then there are many services out there that offer this . Look for terms like " Flotilla " and " Bareboat " . There are packages both with you as the entire crew , or with an existing crew . It is n't cheap , but it 's also not so expensive as to be for the " 1 % " only . It could certainly be a fun way to visit some mediterranean cities .
The best options you have is looking for sail boats requiring a crew . You should be careful with that . Make sure the captain is experienced enough . Cape horn is not known by being easy . But you 're aware of that probably . They will , most likely , be looking for someone with experience as well . Things can go in many ways . It 's not easy to get a good crew sometimes so it 's possible that they do n't ask money . The most usual way , I would say , is food cost sharing . There are several websites / forums where you can search : <URL> <URL> There are also " professional " websites that list ads like : <URL> <URL> Some of them require you to pay a fee to answer the ads Another option is going to a near by marina . There are usually classified ads for several topics , namely crew seek . Depending on where you are it may be easy to find a boat going there . If you are in an area , with mainly local sailors you will hardly find someone going that way . If you 're in Azores , with a lot of blue water sailors coming/going everywhere than your chances may increase quite a bit . If you are in Ushuaia or have a quick way/cheap way of getting there , considering lot of boats depart to Cape Horn from this place , I would definitely visit the local marina/harbour . There is nothing like meeting a sailor face to face . Last minute opportunities are not uncommon . I wish you good winds for your search .
end question
start question
Do all of the Emirates in the UAE have the same visa policy for Indian citizens , or does it vary ?
Emirati immigrations is a federal agency , hence visa rules are the same for all Emirates . The visas are issued for all the country under the name of UAE and not for a single Emirate or under its name .
You may qualify for " <URL> " , which would provide you meals , accommodation , transporation , if your itinerary matches certain conditions ( layover length between 8 and 24 hours , no better connections available and there are a few more limitations ) . If your booking does qualify , then you should see it as an option on Emirates website under " Manage your booking " .
The Matrix does not show flights to points within Cuba . This is because ITA takes a wide reading of the US Treasury regulations that forbid US citizens and companies from arranging or organizing travel to Cuba without authority of the Treasury . ITA 's exclusion of all Cuban points is probably wider than is really required but that is how they implement their legal obligations . I have previously raised this topic with a developer at ITA Software . They foresee that US regulations will become more relaxed in the future and that there is no point in reconsidering their blanket exclusion at the moment .
According to <URL> , a Hong Kong citizen does not require a visa to visit Russian for up to 14 days , even if they are a resident of Canada . Note that you will require an onward ticket in order to be granted entry . In general , residency does not affect visa requirements , however it 's always a good idea to check .
When exactly does your OPT expire - at Christmas as you 've stated , or 60 days beforehand ? Presuming it expires at Christmas , then you are legally able to stay in the US for 60 days after expiry . You are NOT allowed to work during that period , but you can legally stay in the country for other purposes , so if you 're planning to be a tourist for less than 60 days , AND you do not plan to leave the US during that time , then you 're good ! Once you leave the US after the expiry of your OPT , then you are NOT allowed to re-enter using the OPT - even if it is still within the 60 day grace period . However , as a Canadian Citizen you are allowed to re-enter the US as a tourist . Technically there is no reason that you could not do the immediately ( " same day " ) , however as with all entries it is at the discretion of the immigration officials to determine if they believe you are entering for the purposes you 're stating or not . If they believe that you are re-entering the US for the purposes of working , then they can deny your entry . How likely this is to occur will depend on your exact situation - if it were me I would have as much paperwork as possible available to show that you are a tourist rather than returning to work .
Information on import duties for purchase of items outside the EU are available <URL> . And a calculator is available <URL> . You are liable for import taxes according to the rules <URL> . Presuming the value of the item is over 150 Euro , you will have to pay duty and tax on the whole value . It appears that a food mixer is code 8509 40 00 00 : Food grinders and mixers ; fruit or vegetable juice extractors This code is subject to 2.2 % duty and then 21 % VAT . The duty is applied first and then VAT is applied on the total of value + duty . If you bring the item back with you in luggage , the duty free allowance is shown <URL> . You do pay taxes for : Products you purchased outside the EU during the trip , if the total value exceeds $ 430 Note that taxes are only due on items you are importing to the EU . Items that you already owned before travelling , and as such have already had appropriate EU taxes paid , do not count towards the alliance or need any taxes paying . Note that if you exceed the duty free limit on a single item , you will <URL> on the whole amount . It is not permitted to divide the value of 1 article over several people . If you take 1 article with a value exceeding $ 430 with you , you will have to pay tax over the whole amount . Examples : - You buy a camera for $ 500 . You must pay tax over the entire amount . - You buy a watch for $ 400 and a fountain pen for $ 55 . The total amount is $ 455 . You only have to pay tax over the fountain pen .
No , in the specific case of <URL> as jpatokal has already noted , but also , no in general . Accrual of points in multiple programs is expressly prohibited by most programs in the T&amp;C , not just airlines but for frequent dining programs ( you can have multiple credit cards for one program , but a max of one program per credit card ) and rental car and hotel partnerships ( sometimes you can get both car/hotel points and airline points , but only one one partner airline ) . The very <URL> runs against double-dipping . The obvious and original purpose of frequent flyer miles was to encourage people to choose one particular airline over its competitors . So , if you could double-dip -- or triple-dip , or 30-dip -- you 'd no longer have an incentive to fly a particular airline . This is the most fundamental reason why airlines have no interest in allowing accrual to multiple programs . But today , frequent flyer miles are also a huge profit center for airlines -- one of which they must be highly protective . Miles are not " free " even though they seem like a sort of fiat currency that airlines could " print " at will . The airline has no direct interest in where you do your banking or grocery shopping ; none of that money makes it into their coffers . But your bank and your supermarket care , and because a significant number of their customers like miles , they will purchase miles from the airlines to give to their customers as an incentive . During the difficult early 2000s , FFPs were often the only profitable part of an airline 's business , and in a large program contribute hundreds of millions of dollars to the bottom line : even money-bleeding Qantas reported a <URL> in its frequent flyer program last year . This is why airlines are so deeply in bed with their credit card partners -- Delta with American Express , United with Chase , and so on . When Air Canada 's Aeroplan was spun off into a separate company , it reported that <URL> , with only 27 % from Air Canada ( mostly flights ) ! Second , your program has a tremendous amount of information about you that is valuable to marketers -- where you travel to , what kind of tickets you buy at what prices and when you book them , what seasons you will be in different cities , and so on . This has boosted the valuations of FFPs far above what would be expected based on purely revenue-based pricing . When you consider this , there is no scenario in which double-dipping of miles would be profitable to any party except the passenger -- and who has already given the airlines money in exchange for miles in a single program . Your fare has gone to Alaska Airlines , and you requested BA miles for them . Alaska purchases miles from BA and awards them to you . To request AA miles , Alaska would need to purchase and track miles from AA as well . That might make you and a lot of other people happy , but it would annoy BA and AA , who would be jealous of each over over your business , and it would annoy AS , which would incur additional costs because the benefit would probably not increase revenue enough to offset the administration costs and the annoyance of your partners . This is also why it is so difficult to change credit after the fact . If you decided you wanted AA credit instead of BA , you 'd need to ask BA to cancel their credit , and recognize those miles as still available to AS . Then you would ask AS to credit the flight from their stash of AA miles instead . You can see that such changes would incur accounting and other processing costs , and because credits and transfers are generally done in batches/sweeps instead of real time , there is a risk that customers would redeem miles while they were in the midst of being moved from one account to another . Double-dipping scenarios Now , there are a handful of scenarios where you can get away with double-dipping in airline programs , though it 's usually something which seems like double-dipping , but is n't actually . Rebooking on a non-partner airline For example , suppose you have purchased a ticket to fly on Delta , but due to mechanical problems , they are unable to fly you to your connection , and arrange for you to fly on American instead . You give your American AAdvantage number when boarding the AA flight , and receive AA credit for it , but you can also write to Delta and request original routing credit , which they will often give as a customer service gesture . This wo n't work with airlines who are partners , because they will see the credit in each other 's systems and deny the double-dip . If your Asiana flight from San Francisco to Seoul is overbooked , and they put you on the next flight out on United , you wo n't be able to request both Asiana and United credit for it . Non-mileage airline programs Singapore Airlines has two programs : <URL> and the <URL> . KrisFlyer is a traditional frequent flyer program , whereas PPS is a Singapore Airlines-only recognition ( no Star Alliance benefits or equivalent ) for high-revenue flyers . So , if you buy a lot of business - and first-class ti
The key in Star Alliance is " operated by " . For example , at one time SAA was not in * A. Lufthansa operated some flights from Europe to JNB , and code-shared others on SAA . As an Air Canada Aeroplan collector , I would get * A miles if I flew on an LH plane , and not if I flew on an SAA plane . This is kind of moot now that SAA joined * A , but the point still holds for other combinations . Now , when you 're looking at a site like Expedia that shows you a wide variety of flights , they will typically tell you who operates it . When you go to your own airline and ask for a multi-leg thing , for example asking Air Canada for YYZ-FRA-JNB , it can be hard to know who is actually operating the non-Air Canada leg . ( Substitute your own airlines and cities as appropriate . ) The answer is usually that it is the airline that uses a 3-digit flight number for it . If they tell you the leg is on LH8765 then it is probably not a LH plane ; but LH876 probably is . ( I say usually because for example Air Canada and United both have some 4-digit flight numbers that are operated by their LCC divisions - Jazz and United Express - but that are treated exactly the same as if they were operated by the mainline carrier . ) Now before you pull your hair out , remember that usually , it does n't even matter because the operator and all the codeshares are all in the same alliance . It only becomes relevant if you happen to know that some of the codeshare partners on the route are not in the alliance . To be sure , I will often do a " wide spectrum " search for the flight I 'm considering , to let them show me the operating carrier so that I can then check my own plan to see what I will get . It 's reasonably difficult to be confident - you have to understand all the fare classes on both your own airline and the operating airline . But you can learn this if you need to and want to .
You have to follow both , i.e. stay at most 28 days at some time between 02/08/2015 and 13/09/2015 . Therefore , you can not stay longer than 28 days on this visa in any event and if you have not used your 28 days by the 13th of September , you must leave anyway . You also have to respect the number of entries , which means that if you enter some time in August and leave a few days later , you can not use this visa anymore and you lose the benefit of the rest of the maximum period of stay . 09/08/2015 to 05/09/2015 is indeed 28 days and within the period of validity of your visa , so that 's fine . In principle , the conditions of your visa should be based on the information you submitted with your application and allow you to complete your trip as intended . The validity is typically a little longer to give you some flexibility .
Refusing to eat totally is indeed very rude . In fact , it might be taken as an insult if you were the main guest . However , you can always ask for a plate and a spoon , fill the plate and eat the way you are used to . This will totally save the situation and will be understood positively since people know how foreigners eat , but not eating at all is something you should avoid . By the way , asking for a spoon or fork is totally normal even if you were n't a foreigner .
As a rule of thumb , the worse the visa regime , the worse the country 's regime . It 's the tinpot dictatorships of the world ( Turkmenistan , North Korea , Saudi Arabia , Angola , etc ) that make it <URL> and watch visitors most closely , not because they 're particularly concerned about Norwegians stealing their jobs , but because they 're afraid that they 're actually { journalists , dangerous infidels , disguised CIA spies , etc } out to { steal their military secrets , report on human rights issues , lead the faithful astray , steal their women , etc } . Or , in the case of the United States , suffering from bed-wetting hysteria about foreign terrorists . China is somewhere in the middle of the spectrum : not particularly bad as far as visas or regimes are concerned , but still pretty paranoid about foreigners snooping about where they should n't ( eg . Tibet without a tour guide ) and with a strong preference for more state control rather than less . Inertia is also a factor : no bureaucrat ever got fired for imposing more restrictions , whereas letting a bad apple in may be a career-limiting move .
Nope , they do n't care . I just checked with one of my British friends who went to India in 2010 - he specified port of entry as Delhi but flew in to Mumbai instead as he changed his itinerary . I think it 's more of a formality really , since you 'll be filling out a disembarkation form at the airport anyway specifying your entry details .
Dont know about Dubai , but Qatar ID Number is of 11 digits . First digit will be 2 , if you are born in 20th Century i.e. on or before 2000 . 3 if you are born after . 2nd &amp; 3rd digit is your birth year in yy format . 4th , 5th , 6th digit is your nationality code , same for same country . Last five is your sequence number of entering country first time , with somebody entering at 01 Jan 00:01 will be 00001 . So , no , two work visa numbers for two different persons will not be same . Although same person re-entering Qatar after getting first visa cancelled will get same number as earlier . Note that this applies to Qatar ID Numbers . The temporary visa you need to enter and get the RP process completed may be totally different .
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
As noted in a comment , the agreement mentioned in that news article has not yet gone into effect . In fact there are several outstanding changes to Turkish visas which are pending but not yet active . There will be changes to quite a few countries ' visas that go into effect on February 1st of 2012 . That would be the earliest date I would expect the Nigerian agreement to be effective , but I do n't know that it 's scheduled for then and kind of doubt it will . In short , at the moment he still needs a visa . No confirmation is available as to when the agreement with Nigeria will take effect .
The last time I went to IST there was no xray customs inspection on the way out of the airport ( if there was one I was not selected to go through it ) , but there is one on the way in at the airport entrance before the check in desk and a second xray scan at the real security check point . Information from July 2014
In July I was in Tajikistan , along the Afghanistan border . I met a LOT of travellers going there . Indeed , the Central Asia Lonely Planet ( English version ) has a picture of a temple from within Afghanistan . It was sooo tempting . However , due to a <URL> , I had to backtrack from Khorog along the Afghanistan border again to Dushanbe and leave from there . Otherwise I 'd totally have gone across for a few days . So why are people going ? For the <URL> - a sliver of land perfect for trekking , and well away from the war-zones . It 's considered pretty safe , but again , you 'd need to check your insurance as you may not be covered there . However , anywhere west of Fayzabad and you 're starting to get into dangerous territory . Very . One Dutch traveller I met had a police escort at a point and heard explosions . It 's still dangerous . And really , if the Taliban decides to branch out and start kidnapping tourists in the Wakhan Corridor , it may change . It 's a very volatile place . However , if you go to Khorog , there 's an Afghanistan embassy on the south side of the river in town , open from 9am . You can get a visa for Afghanistan within 24 hours . It 's important to make sure you have a visa and entry for the Tajikistan side when you return , however , as if you need to get a new visa in Afghanistan , all embassies will be in Kabul . And you do n't want to have to travel there if you do n't want to . Of course , it all depends how crazy you are . I also met two Russians who had hitchhiked from Moscow to Tajikstan and were continuing on to Kabul . It 's entirely possible , just not guaranteed .
This is taken up in Article 15 of <URL> ( otherwise known as the ' Schengen Visa Code ' ) , which says ... The insurance shall be valid throughout the territory of the Member States and cover the entire period of the person 's intended stay or transit . The minimum coverage shall be EUR 30 000 . and for the case of multiple entry Schengen visas ... Applicants for a uniform visa for more than two entries ( multiple entries ) shall prove that they are in possession of adequate and valid travel medical insurance covering the period of their first intended visit . So any day ( or partial day ) that the applicant is in the zone , these paragraphs would apply . To calculate the minimum coverage , add up the days between arrival and departure inclusive and you will meet the requirements of Article 15 .
Strikes usually end officially at 10 p.m. , but do n't count on any train after that time . There might be an odd train , but usually there is not . In reality the normal schedule resumes the next morning with a few cancelled trains still possible . Source : I take the train daily in Belgium and have seen my share of strikes . If you are referring to the upcoming strike on December 15th , keep in mind that the train schedule changes completely on December 14th , making December 15th the first weekday of the new schedule . With the strike , in reality that will become December 16th . For this reason , I think it is wise to allow sufficient margin in your planning , even on December 16th . Source : just my gut feeling . Nobody really knows .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
end question
start question
How to get from the airport to the bus station in Krakow and how long does it take ?
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Good news . As a British citizen , assuming you 're visiting for under 90 days , you do n't need a visa . You can apply through the Visa Waiver Program under the <URL> ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) . <URL> : British citizens : please note that from 12 January 2009 all nationals and citizens of Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) countries - including the UK - will be required by law to obtain an ESTA travel authorization prior to traveling to the United States under the VWP . Our Visa section has full details of this on their Visa Waiver Program &amp; ESTA . It 's very easy to apply , costs $ 14 , and is valid for 2 years . <URL> . I 've done two applications in the past 4 years , and both were approved within days ( normally immediately , but the first time had some issue with their system confirming payment had gone through ) .
According to the <URL> site , both Canadian and US citizens are eligible ( and only US/Canada citizens ) . The program is only for the Canadian border ( northern land crossings , US immigration checkpoints in Canadian airports and NEXUS kiosks at various marine entry points ) . It costs $ 50 to get the card , you do n't need to pay to use it . It replaces your passport for land and marine crossings between the US and Canada . Air travel between US and Canada still requires a Passport , although a Nexus card can expedite customs clearance in airports . For US citizens and green card holders ( and citizens of Mexico and Holland ) there 's also a <URL> program , which is similar in nature . It appears that the programs are being connected/merged , but I 'm not sure what 's going on exactly .
As of today , no . Nothing has currently changed ( other than currency prices , which are of interest to international travelers ) . There will be a prolonged negotiating period over the next several years ( specifically , two years after <URL> is invoked unless a different agreement is reached ) , and immigration controls will inevitably be a large part of those discussions . The results of those negotiations , along with potential future events in the UK and EU , may bring any number of future changes for anybody , regardless of citizenship , interested in short or long-term travel to the UK and for UK citizens looking to visit EU countries . There are also no current plans for immigration changes for Commonwealth or other visa-free nationals ( such as US/Canadian citizens ) . Until these negotiations are completed and implemented , the UK remains a member of the EU , and all existing laws apply with no changes . As changes are proposed and enacted , travelers will need to remain alert for potential effects .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
There are really dozens of tour operators that offers tours to the Salt Mines . I would recommend to use collect some flyers and compare the conditions . I personally can recommend the tour that is provided by the <URL> . They have an agreement with a tour operator that picks you up directly in front of the hostel and then drives you there in a comfortable minibus . After the tour you 're picked up at the mines and you can again leave the minibus directly in front of the hostel or in the old town center . The price was 10 Euro per person including everything , which I personally think is very reasonable . But we got a student discount of 50 % , so the normal price is a little bit higher . I assume that other tour operators have more or less the same offers .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
Following my own advice from my answer to <URL> , I looked on the <URL> : A minifleet of four or five buses run by different companies departs at noon for Istanbul ( US$ 40 , 27 hours ) via the border at Sarpi , Hopa , Rize They leave from the second bus terminal : Ortachala bus station ( 753433 ; Gulia 1 ) is something of a backwater , about 2.5 km southeast of the Old Town .
According to the <URL> : Residents of the 33 approved countries can obtain a Tourist Visa upon arrival . The visa can be purchased for a nominal fee at the airport or port . It can also be issued online instantly prior to travel . This visa is valid for one month and can not be extended . The <URL> are : Fees Visa issuance fees : QR 100 for each visa , QR 50 for each accompanying person and QR 200 for overstay fine per day . At the current exchange rate this works out to ~ 28 . This visa is valid for one month and non-extendable .
There are direct trains , which run on the Keisei Sky Access line or the Keisei Main Line between Narita airport and Aoto station , and then continue on the Keisei Oshiage line and the Toei Asakusa line , as shown on these <URL> screenshots . <URL> <URL> Note the triangle-shaped icons to the left of the station names : they indicate that this is the same train running on different lines , so you do not get off the train at those stations . Note also that the Access Express trains ( which run on the Keisei Sky Access line ) take less time , but cost more . By the way , there is currently no direct train leaving Narita airport between 14:00 and 15:00 and stopping at Higashi-Ginza , but there are some which stop at Nihombashi and Shinbashi nearby , which could be good enough for you .
Let 's assume that " London " is any major mainline station - they 're all reasonably central and well-connected for onward journeys - and that you 're only interested in rail not buses or taxis . All but one ( Luton ) have a station connected directly to the airport , though getting out of the terminal and to the station is quicker for some than for others . I have n't counted travel time to get to the airport station for any of them except Luton . All fares are single and assume no railcards , offers , etc. . Unless clearly stated , no change of transport en route . Trains per hour are during the day on a weekday . Gatwick Gatwick Express to Victoria . 30 minutes . # 19.90 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to Victoria . 35-40 minutes . # 15.40 single . Around five trains per hour . Local train to London Bridge . 35-55 minutes . # 9 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to St. Pancras . 55-70 minutes . # 10 single . Four trains per hour . There are also direct rail connections to Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , Brighton , Eastbourne , &amp; Portsmouth . Through train to Luton Airport Parkway . Luton Local train to St. Pancras . 25-45 minutes , plus 10 minute bus ride to the station from the airport . # 14 single plus bus ticket ( # 2 single ) . About seven trains per hour ( varies ) . There are also direct rail connections to Leicester , Nottingham , Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , and even Brighton . Through train to Gatwick . City Docklands Light Railway . No direct connection to a mainline station but 20 minutes to Bank ( equally central ) or go to Canning Town and then change to the Jubilee Line to London Bridge ( 22m ) or Waterloo ( 25m ) . Single fare is # 4.90 cash , # 3.30 Oyster ( peak ) , # 2.80 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Frequent service . If you are heading out of London to the east , you can also take the DLR to Stratford ( for Essex ) or Stratford International ( for Kent ) Heathrow Piccadilly Line tube to King 's Cross . ~ 1 hour , or a little less to somewhere like Piccadilly Circus - this is one of the few to go across London so you can get off in the middle ! Single fare is # 6 cash , # 5.10 Oyster ( peak ) , # 3.10 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Six trains per hour ( T4 &amp; T5 ) , or twelve trains per hour ( T2/3 ) Heathrow Connect to Paddington . 25-35 minutes , # 10.20 single . Two trains per hour . Heathrow Express to Paddington . 15-20 minutes ( depending on terminal ) , # 22 single . Four trains per hour . Southend Local train to Liverpool Street . ~ 55 minutes . # 16.80 single ( # 15.80 off-peak ) . Three trains per hour , one per hour on Sundays . Stansted Stansted Express to Liverpool Street . 45-55 minutes . # 19 single . Four trains per hour . Direct connections to Cambridge , Peterborough , Leicester , and ( believe it or not ) Birmingham . City is of course the clear winner on both price and time , but some others are better than I expected ...
There is a EUR 430 allowance but it 's <URL> . So if you want to sell them , you 're not OK , no matter their value . Incidentally , even a single brand new Apple Mac Book for your own use would not be OK either because it would be over the limit ( bringing back your own used laptop is a different question ) . It was a long time ago ( before the EU rules detailed in the link above ) but someone from my family once got in trouble for a handful of baby napkins or something like that . The issue is not merely the value but the fact that having several identical items , especially with receipts or intact packaging is taken as a sign that the goods are new and you might want to sell them instead of carrying them for your personal use . Under this logic , the answer to the title question would therefore appear to be " one " even if there is no explicit limit . A suitcase full of identical laptops is certainly likely to attract attention .
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
First of all , both Hamar and Lillehammer are located at the Lake Mjøsa , so there will be no net elevation change along the way . The pilgrim 's path does not follow the shore though , so there are some light to moderate inclines along the way , but always accompanied with following descents . Except from telling you that , noone here will be able to tell you which pace you prefer or can manage . Even being less than in ' decent shape ' , hiking 25-30km a day should IMHO be easily feasible in such light terrain . The <URL> of the pilgrim 's road suggests that you use four days ,
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
end question
start question
What does one year of traveling around the world cost ?
It very much depends on the countries you go to . Europe is EXPENSIVE . South America - not so much . North America - EXPENSIVE . Central Asia - not . I spent 4 months in South America doing pretty much whatever looked fun , and eating well . I initially stayed in the cheapest hostels possible , but quickly realised there 's a reason they 're cheap - had some interesting ones , that 's for sure ! After that I 'd pick the cheapest popular ones . However , if you do this , eat from the supermarket , take cheap buses , and all that , you can very easily do 20-25 Euros a Day . A bit harder in Chile , much easier in Bolivia . This past summer I went from London to Mongolia overland . Western Europe hurt a little . The Baltics ( Latvia , Lithuania ) were great , then Estonia which uses the Euro pushed rates up a bit for food . Then I hit Finland , and goodness it was expensive - all the Nordic countries are . Russia is more expensive than you 'd think in the tourist cities - St Petersburg and Moscow . Once you 're into Siberia , things are much better . And Central Asia - the ' stans , and Mongolia - accommodation is very good value , and so is food . Transport depends on your bargaining skills in Russian / local language ;) And eating from the markets can save you a lot ! Again on this trip , it varied . In Europe , you needed 20 Euros sometimes just for the hostel . In Uzbekistan , it was much better . My accommodation in Dushanbe , Tajikistan was one of the more expensive ones , but it meant I had wifi which I 'd been missing for a couple of weeks . Of the RTW travellers , I find a lot of them talk with glee about the cheap prices in India and SE Asia . Some are shocked by the prices in China being expensive in tourist spots - more so than Europe . And some are also surprised at how expensive Australia and NZ are ( and so are the locals , I can tell you ! ;) ) . So it all depends on your style of travel . You could easily spend US$ 30,000 and have an absolute ball . You could also spend around 6 grand ( 500 a month ) if you 're really frugal and careful about what you do/eat , and where you go . You could n't do that easily in Europe . It 's all part of the fun . If you come home early , it probably just means you spent it and had a great time . If you can eek out the cash , you 'll have had more experiences , just not expensive ones ;)
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
Update 17 July 2015 Relevant images from the <URL> glossary can now be referred to for the ' official ' descriptions ... Some additional terms ... And because it 's relevant here , the Chief Inspector 's definition of ' entry clearance ' ... Original Answer As ' pnuts ' suggested , ECO stands for Entry Clearance Officer . They are a mid-level <URL> employed by the Home Office but attached to the Foreign Office and posted to a <URL> . They make decisions on Entry Clearance applications ( see <URL> ) . They report to an ECM , Entry Clearance Manager . Entry Clearance applications are their term for visa applications made abroad . Some situations require the person to have an entry clearance prior to arrival , hence the term ' entry clearance ' . Not everyone requires an entry clearance , some nationalities , like Canadians , can arrive without one and get ' leave to enter ' at a border control . Because they are attached to the Foreign Office and posted abroad , an ECO generally has the diplomatic rank of Vice Consul . This convention is the same throughout the Commonwealth and the USA uses the same diplomatic conventions . ECM 's have the diplomatic rank of Consul . The counterpart to an ECO is the Immigration Officer ( IO ) . They work in airports on British soil and issue ' leave to enter ' ( also known as ' visa on arrival ' ) to those who do not require an entry clearance . ( NOTE : see <URL> for a relevant article ) They also examine and stamp entry clearances . The IO can cancel an entry clearance and place the holder in detention for removal . They can also detain and remove people asking for ' leave to enter ' . Because of this and a few other factors ( like standing and having to wear a uniform ) , IO 's get paid more and have more opportunities when they leave the government . NOTE : While there is ONE set of <URL> , the IO must refer to the <URL> whereas the ECO refers to the <URL> . Incredible numbers of people on the net mix these up and hence get it wrong . The IDI 's and ECG 's are NOT the rules and lots of mistakes get made by people treating them as if they are the rules . NOTE : ECO 's do not have to be British nationals , sometimes they will hire the spouse of a British national who has moved abroad . Sometimes they will make a local hire as an Entry Clearance Assistant ( ECA ) who rises up to become an ECO . Dedicated crown service is a way to acquire British nationality . NOTE : As long as we 're nitpicking on terminology , I can add that the British Embassy absolutely NEVER issues a visa . It 's not their job , they do n't know how , and they are not authorized , and if they tried they would get fired . Visas are issued by a <URL> . The same holds true for the rest of the Commonwealth and other countries like the USA , Japan , etc. . They may be in the same building , but they are not the same thing . NOTE : I wrote both linked articles but have no connection to the site . And the site itself has no commercial content .
There are blogs on the subject of what actually happens with the confiscated items : <URL> <URL> and there are a few others . Basically TSA confiscated items that can be resold are being resold through the Surplus program run by the state where the airport is located . So for example in Pennsylvania <URL> administers such a program , so if you want buy something it would either be at the Harrisburg Warehouse or listed on <URL> .
You can enter China up to the date the visa expires , so in theory making five stays of 90 days possible . However you do need to be wary of the potential for Immigration deciding that you are attempting to live in China without the correct visa , especially if the time between exit/re-entry is only a day or two . Folks with a business visa are less likely to be questioned about this as work related visits often require long stays . But doing this with a tourist visa may lead to secondary questioning after a couple of entries .
If you have some specific plan and are not moving constantly , consider booking specific trains directly . This will definitely be cheaper than renting a car for several weeks and will probably be cheaper than an Eurail pass as well . You can read more about elsewhere on this site or on <URL> but since many trains have restrictions for Eurail pass holders , they do n't provide as much flexibility as they used to , especially in France . An important factor is whether you are traveling alone or not . With a group , traveling by car can be cheaper but if you are alone it 's likely to be much more expensive . Depending on where you come from , you might find petrol to be quite expensive ( less than in the UK or the Netherlands , though ) and you have to remember that most motorways are toll roads ( crossing France East-West will cost you about 60 $ toll , that 's excluding petrol and any other cost for the car ) . If you need to cover long distances ( say go from Paris to the South of France ) , trains are also likely to be faster and more comfortable so the car 's main advantage is really flexibility . Regarding snow , I do n't think it should be a big concern , certainly for Normandy or most of the South and West of France . Unfortunately , I think most rental cars will not be fitted with winter tires so if you are unlucky and there are a couple of snowy days in December , the best solution would be to " sit them out " wherever you are and just delay the next step of your trip for a day or two . Driving with tire chains is only ever necessary in mountainous area when there is a layer of snow on the road , which is almost never the case for long on main roads ( besides , you ca n't drive fast with tire chains so it 's a last resort to reach some isolated places , not something you would realistically do on a long trip ) . If anything , ice or " freezing rain " is more often a problem than snow . Finally , Normandy as a whole is n't a rural area at all . There are relatively large cities with heavy industry and decent connections to Paris by train . At the same time , if you want to visit the rural or coastal parts of Normandy , a car would certainly be useful and give you a lot more flexibility .
I 've had a friend in a similar situation who has had success with <URL> . This is what their website says in terms of license requirements : Documentation - all drivers must produce all parts of a valid driving license . Non-EU license holders are required to have an international driving permit if the license is not in English . Domestic renters must produce a photo ID - passport or driving license . International travelers must produce a passport , proof of return travel and residency information while in the U.K. renters who wish to use a debit card are also required to produce two proofs of address such as a bank or credit card statement , which are less than three months old and may be subject to additional checks . We reserve the right to request additional ID or conduct further ID checks . These may include ID checks with external partners who may check supplied details against databases to which they have access . With that being said I would suggest giving them a call before actually booking a car . Their contact details can be found on <URL> . If they wind up not working out I would suggest scanning local companies on a website such as <URL> . Keep in mind that if you have a license from a different country with an earlier issue date or none at all it 's perfectly legal to show that instead .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
Possibly . It 's not every passenger that has to , but you may , if : They ask you to do so , or Your shoes contain metal ( eg steel toed/capped shoes ) Source : <URL>
It turns out one can view their bus ticket on <URL> : Enter the flight confirmation number along with the email used on Wizzair.com to reveal the E-ticket : I think they 're supposed to send out a notification 3 days before the flight takes place , but there 's no need to wait for it . If the ticket does n't show up on P-Airbus . com , it 's possible to receive it by contacting the transfer service support at wizzair@wizztransfer.com .
Much of this is answered on <URL> It is not official info but it looks good to me . Also it seems to apply for US citizens only , but I assume similar for the other nationalities you list . Are there any special requirements for a 10-year visa ? No . The requirement for a 10-year visa are the same as that of a 1 year visa . [ ... ] Who is eligible for a 10-year multiple entry visa ? All US passport holders can apply for a 10-year multiple entry visa in the following categories : [ ... ] It also does not cost more nor take longer to process . You only need to provide documentation ( flight/hotel/invitation / ... ) for your first trip . Apparently the visa form does not have a 10-year option that you can check but they suggest to tick " other " and write " 10 years " in the blank space .
Turns out , it is now possible , thanks to a post I found on <URL> . A sample itinerary , that they provide , beginning in London : London to Barcelona on Vueling Barcelona to Casablanca on Vueling Casablanca to Istanbul on Air Arabia Maroc Istanbul to Dubai on Flydubai Dubai to Kathmandu on Flydubai Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur on Air Asia X Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne on Air Asia X Melbourne to Honolulu on Jetstar Honolulu to Vancouver on Westjet Vancouver to Cancun on Westjet Cancun to Mexico City on Interjet Mexico City to Bogota on Interjet Bogota to Fort Lauderdale on Spirit Airways Fort Lauderdale to Oslo on Norwegian Air Shuttle Oslo to London on Norwegian Air Shuttle Of course there are complications in doing so , as RTW tickets tend to imply a long trip , and LCCs often re-do their routes and cancel/change itineraries .
So apparently <URL> , unlike other websites , allows you to book budget flights . Glad it helps ! note : low cost airlines do not make their flights available for booking in traditional tools so tools like momondo might not work forever , because it is based on web-scraping or such techniques ( for example if a low-cost airline changes its website it might break )
I think you have to look a little closer at your page that claims widespread acceptance . each entry is a single claim ( supported only by a photo of an entry stamp page ) of one person who has managed to get into that country using a World Passport . Many of the claims are obvious fakes and the photos are not of entry stamps . So for most countries , only a handful of people in the history of the passport have been successful with it . Most of those could simply be due to an immigration official not paying attention . If you look at <URL> you will find a much more realistic assessment . Many countries and territories have stated that they do not recognize the World Passport because it is not issued by a competent government authority , and thus does not meet the definition of a passport . As a result , travelling on a World Passport has never been easy . By 1975 , Garry Davis [ founder of World Service Authority ] had already been imprisoned 20 times for his attempts to cross international borders with nothing but a World Passport . The United States Department of State 's official position on the World Passport is that it is just a booklet issued by a private organisation upon payment of a fee , and not a passport.As early as 1991 , the US Air Transport Association specifically included the World Passport in a training film as an example of unacceptable travel papers . In the United Kingdom , the Criminal Records Bureau of the United Kingdom 's Home Office states that registered bodies should not accept the World Passport as a proof of identity , warning that " a fake ' World Passport ' can be purchased online by members of the public and should not be confused with a genuine passport " . EDIT : If you follow the links where the WSA claims that the passports are officially accepted , many of them are letters in which the country says it accepts documents issued by the WSA as an identify document . An identity document is not a travel document , and wo n't necessarily get you into a country .
There 's a <URL> in LCCT at KUL ( and also another in the main terminal ) . I 've not been to the LCCT one , but I think it 's very similar to the one in the main terminal , which I have been in a few times . You can get a shower ( they 'll provide towels and shower gel ) , which I find nice between long flights . They have a large number of chairs , some with power points , some comfy sofa like ones , some at tables etc. . There are a small number of newspapers ( not a great selection though ) , some magazines , and a TV or two . There should also be a few massage chairs , but they 're very popular . There is WiFi available , and a few computers to use . Food and drink wise , there ought to be a handful of different simple hot meals available , mostly Malaysian style , along with some snacks and fruit . There 's beer , soft drinks , coffee etc. . It 's certainly not a high-end lounge like you get with a lot of the big flag carriers , but it 's certainly above average for third party lounges . Access to Plaza Premium lounges is covered by a range of programs , so it may be worth checking if you already have access . I know that Priority Pass gives access ( that 's how I get in ) , as do a range of higher-end credit cards . I do n't believe that the Plaza website tells you about which cards have access , instead you 'll need to check with your credit card about if it 's in their lounge program or not . Alternately , you can pay to get in . You can just pay on the door , but you can normally get some much better deals if you book online in advance , through a third party website . The headline price at the lounge is Rm118 for 2 hours , Rm158 for 5 hours . If you hunt around online , you can probably get it for about a third of that ( I 'm pretty sure I found a hefty discount the one time I went before getting a Priority Pass . A quick google found 3 hours for # 20 , or 6 hours for # 27.50 , on a respected lounge access website , you might well be able to beat that ) . ( There 's also a higher risk option , which is to hope you manage to make friends with someone with a Priority Pass or similar , who 's able to guest you into the lounge . If you do n't find someone , then you 'll be stuck having to pay the full fee on arrival to get in . You might have some luck if you find someone on a suitable FF forum , and arrange something in advance )
This actually depends on quite a few factors . I wondered this once many years ago , and asked around quite a bit . Did n't have Travel.SE back then ;) The earth is rotating at a rather fast speed - and any point on the earth is therefore actually ' moving ' ( it 's all relative ) . Since the points on the equator have further to travel , they 're moving even faster than at the poles . Now , of course , the air is dragged around WITH the earth , thankfully , otherwise the poor chaps on the equator would have wind speeds in the opposite direction of near the speed of sound ;) However , when you 're in a plane , consider that it can take nearly an hour longer to fly across the Atlantic in a westerly direction ( ' against ' the spin ) than ' with ' the spin . When you 're flying with the spin , and by relation , with the wind , you 're not flying ' into ' a force that 's going the other way , as you are when you fly against the spin . The earth is also dragging you with it - or rather , it 's dragging the atmosphere , and you in it . However , what you 'll tend to find is that it 's actually far more dependent in reality on the existence of jetstreams - where the air up there is moving faster than at ground level , and can boost the plane 's speed if going in the same direction . Of course , in the other direction you do well to avoid the jetstream , as it would slow you down . To put it in words more eloquent than my own , I 'll borrow a quote from <URL> , which first , you must consider yourself to be running ... Stop running . If you were to jump straight up in the air , would the Earth rotate beneath you ? ( Those who do believe that the Earth rotates around them may want to stop reading right now . ) No , because when you left the Earth 's surface , you were traveling at the same speed as the surface , so , in essence , the Earth matched your speed through space while you were in the air ! The same condition holds true for an airplane as it travels from Los Angeles to Bombay . If we were to ignore the winds , no matter which direction you flew from Los Angeles , the speed of the aircraft relative to the Earth would be the same . While the aircraft 's speed through space would change , the effect of the Earth 's rotation remains constant , and in effect is " cancelled out " no matter which direction you travel . In other words , the speed of the rotation of the Earth is already imparted to the aircraft , and the Earth matches that speed during the entire flight . ( Of course , in the case of spacecraft , these speeds become very important . ) So , the end result of that long discussion is that the rotation of the Earth has no effect on the travel time of an aircraft . Actually , it is the headwinds and tailwinds that cause the change in travel times . Sometimes it is hard to believe that the winds can have that much effect , so let us consider the problem a bit more in depth . In the example given , the flight from Bombay to California ( east ) is 23 % shorter than the trip from California to Bombay ( west ) . This means that the speed of the trip east must be 23 % faster . The prevailing winds pretty much anywhere that we are talking about blow from west to east , so when we are traveling east , we get a speed gain , and when we travel west , we get a speed penalty . Now , if we are to assume that the winds are identical on both days we fly , then the wind speed only needs to be equal to 11.5 % of the aircraft 's speed ! This would cause a difference between the speed to the west and speed to the east of 23 % ! The cruise speed of the extended range Boeing 777 is about 550 mph ( 885 km/h ) at 35,000 ft ( 10,675 m ) . This means that the winds only need a speed of about 65 mph ( 105 km/h ) ( good kite weather ) . Believe it or not , 65 mph is a very typical wind speed at such a high altitude . Speeds of over 100 mph ( 160 km/h ) are not uncommon . If we wanted to make things more complicated , we could consider a region of high speed flow called the jet stream that flows eastward , and if an aircraft can take advantage of these winds , then the travel time can be reduced further . Also note <URL> , which affect all this . So what is the bottom line ? The direction you travel in relation to the rotation of the Earth does not affect the travel time of an aircraft , and , more importantly , a mere 65 mph wind is more than enough to cause a difference in travel time of five hours when you are traveling long distances !
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
It means that the flight arrives next day . For example if the flight departs on 22:00 , 20th of AUG and arrives on 05:00 , 21st of AUG , then the will be shown to indicate that the arrival is next day . This usually happens in eastbound flights . Also , the other way around is true . A can be seen in flights that arrive in the previous day ! such as flights from Tokyo ( TYO ) to Los Angeles ( LAX ) .
The main way to simplify this process is to use the services of an agent . There are a few that specialise in this and you would want to vet them a bit before putting your money , passport and credibility in their hands so I am not going to name any . But I heard about a handful that would for example arrange visas for Russia and many central Asian countries as a " package " ( you provide an itinerary and your passport and they arrange invitations , send your passport to the relevant consulates for you , etc. ) As a <URL> , if you do not want to go to Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East , this area ( central Asia and the former Soviet Union ) is probably the most troublesome . You will need a visa or some formalities in advance for ten or twenty other countries ( India , China , North Korea , Iran , Belarus , Vietnam ... ) but you are lucky enough to be able to visit most of the world with little or no formalities ( Europe is wide open without so much as a concern about overstaying in the Schengen area , the Americas are visa-free for you and many South-East Asian countries merely require a visa-on-arrival which is easy to get without any trip to an embassy beforehand ) . The thing is is that , outside the Schengen area , visas are entirely each country 's prerogative . Nobody can issue a " global " visa , it 's not a mere technical issue but fundamentally at odds with the way international law and passports/visa work . One way or the other , you must obtain an authorisation to enter from each country you want to visit so having someone secure them for you one-by-one is the best you can do . In fact , trips to various consulates are not the main difficulty with getting visas for a round-the-world journey . The main issue if you want to do it all at once and in a short time is that you often can not get visas more than 2-3 months in advance and will often have to wait for them ( at least of few days , possibly weeks ) so that getting all the visas all at once before the journey might be impossible . It might also be difficult to apply from a country where you are not a resident , meaning you ca n't always get what you need on the road and might therefore need to return to Belgium once or twice in the middle of the trip . Beyond visa-free travel , your location and citizenship have a few other advantages . It 's ( much ) more expensive but Belgium offers special passports with more pages and tend to issue them quickly , which would ease the process . And with the European institutions and everything , many countries have a representation in Brussels so at least you do n't have to travel very far to find their nearest consulate ( according to Wikipedia , there are <URL> more than in Paris , Berlin or London ; by comparison Greece has 80 or so and Malta has only 20 ) .
how to start : Start small . Do n't think you can cycle long distances without getting in shape . Even across town may well be a challenge for you right now . So start on that , set yourself REALISTIC goals to get in shape , not just your legs but your arms and lungs as well . Start with say 10km trips , then gradually increase that until you can comfortably drive the distance you think your average day 's leg will be in a reasonable amount of time ( would n't do to plan a 200km trip a day and find yourself exhausted after driving 100km in 8 hours for example ) . Do n't think you can exist on energy drinks and granola bars alone . Yes , they make great energy boosts but they 're not exactly healthy as your sole or main source of food . What bike : WAY too broad to answer . Would depend heavily on the routes you plan to take . But overall , you probably want one that 's rugged , relatively light to drive , and is easy to repair BY YOU in the field with whatever 's available from the local blacksmith shoppe . Especially in rural areas ( and many third world countries ) you should n't expect to find well equipped bicycle repair shops with high tech parts and the ability to repair that carbon-carbon frame you just broke driving over a dirt filled pothole . A steel pipe frame is a lot easier to maintain , but of course heavier . Again , set yourself realistic targets . Do n't plan a round the world trip as your first major adventure . Instead plan a trip to the next province for a long weekend , or a week to the next country over.Few hundred kilometers to get a taste , and close enough you can catch a train back in a few hours if things go horribly wrong . Gradually widen that . Maybe a year later drive a thousand kilometers over a week or so , year after that make it 2000 in a month ( yes , as you get further from home things slow down , your support network becomes smaller and slimmer , etc. ) . And then you get the biggest problem : visa , invites ( which you need for many countries ) , travel restrictions , finding places to stay , healthcare , etc. etc. . It 's not for nothing that such endeavours are often undertaken by larger teams with a home support crew handling stuff like that , which can sometimes take months to get the permissions for a country you just have to cross because your travel plans just changed ( natural disasters , wars , etc. ) .
end question
start question
How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ?
The statement ' there is no speed limit on the Autobahn ' is not really correct . I could n't find any official statistics , but I 've seen a number of only 50 % of German Autobahns without any limit . Many parts have a permanent limits of 120 or 130 km/h ( 74 mph or 81 mph ) . Some parts are limited to 80 ( 50 mph ) due to construction work . Also , some limits are only for wet roads . Finally many parts have dynamic speed limit signs that change based on the traffic situation . Even though there is no general limit for the 50 % , there is a recommended speed of 130 km/h ( 81 mph ) . If you are going much faster and there is an accident , it is more likely you are blamed for it ( if you survive it , which is unlikely ) . Autobahn police can still pull you over for reckless driving or driving too fast in certain situations even when there was no limit . How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ? This really depends on the situation , there are some stretches in less populated areas that get relatively light traffic and you can drive 200 km/h ( 125 mph ) with no problem . It also depends on the time of day . There is rush hour traffic that limits your speed anyways . Late at night it is usually empty and you can go fast . It also depends on you car , it makes a big difference if you go 200 km/h in a big BMW or Porsche or a smaller older car . It is also much more tiring to go fast , you have to concentrate much more at 200 than 120 because any tiny mistake has much bigger consequences . I had several friends visiting from overseas , renting a car and then were too scared to drive really fast . If you are planning to go fast , start with a speed you are comfortable with from home and then increase it over time . Do n't go 230 km/h ( 143 mph ) as soon as you hit the Autobahn for the first time .
There are a reasonable number of car hire places which specialise in this kind of thing : essentially they rent you a car with track day insurance , and access to a track . Much like the " bring your own car " track days , but they provide the car too . <URL> ( UK site but covers other tracks in Europe ) <URL> Prices vary from around $ 200 to $ 8,000 + depending on the car you wish to hire and circuit Donington Park is about the cheapest circuit I know of . Circuits that host/have historically hosted Formula 1 events ( Spa/Monza/Silverstone etc ) tend to be more expensive , along with the Nurburgring and Le Mans . The Nurburgring is fairly cheap itself , but car hire there tends to be quite expensive .
Visas are issued for a specific purpose , and the type and duration of the visa issued are based on the purpose that you requested it for . The actual conditions described on the visa form one part of the conditions and intent behind the visa , but they are not the only conditions that apply . So in this case , the conditions on the visa are that you can stay for up to 30 days on each visit , and can have multiple visits . However such a visa would not have been issued with the intent that you could basically live in the country - if that was the expected intent then a different type of visa would have been issues . Why this matters is related to one of the most misunderstood areas of visa - a visa does NOT give you the right to enter a country , even if you are fully applying by the conditions of the visa ( stated conditions or otherwise ) . At the end of the day , the immigration officials at the border always have the last say as to whether you will be allowed into the country . If they believe that your visa has been obtained fraudulently ( including mis-representing the time you intended to stay in the country ) , if they believe that you are not entering the country in line with the terms of your visa , if they believe you are entering the country to commit a crime , or for any other reason , they can deny you entry to the country at the border . So whilst you may have a visa that states multiple entries up to 30 days , each time you re-enter the country the immigration official will look at your history of entries/exits from the country , and after a number of 30 days in/7 days out entries they will almost certainly begin to suspect that you are breaking the conditions of the visa - they might think that you are in the country to work , that you are residing there , or any number of other things that would be against the conditions of that type of visa . They might even simply suspect ( correctly ! ) that your repeated short trips outside of the country are " visa runs " ( trips with a sole purpose of extending visa validity ) which are generally covered in immigration laws as not being allowed . The second time you enter the country odds are this wo n't be a problem . But sometime after that - well before you make it even close to the 1 year mark - someone is going to spot the pattern , and put you on a plane back where you came from . Nobody is going to be able to tell you if that 's going to occur on the 3rd visit or the 10th as it will depending on a number of factors including the exact type of visa , the particular immigration official , the answers you give to the questions they ask you , and countless other things - but it will happen eventually . Immigration law is something it 's best not to test the limits off . The results ( ranging from cancellation of a visa to be banned from entry to a country for up to 10 years or more ) just is n't worth the risk !
Most commercial campgrounds have office hours and tend not to be open real late , say 8 or 9pm . But if you have a reservation and have n't checked in by closing time , they will put a note on the office door telling you which campsite is yours and requesting you to come check in after they open in the morning . A fair number of campgrounds will allow you to simply choose a campsite , if you arrive without a booking after hours , and then come pay in the morning . The drawback however is you may not have the passcode to enter the restrooms or showers .
The vehicle temporarily imported by the owner may be driven in Mexico by the spouse or adult children , as long as they have the same immigration status . Other persons may drive the vehicle as long as the owner is in the vehicle . <URL>
I 've had reasonable luck with large stores aimed at locals such as Carrefour or Sam 's Club . It 's also entertaining ( for me anyway ) to see what else is on offer . Of course they may not have the total kitsch but if you 're flexible there can be some interesting finds . Another option is gift shops at museums - which often have more tasteful stuff , and campus shops at Universities . Along with the usual staples ( many of which are of use to the traveler ) , campus shops often offer some " touristy " things that are affordable on a student budget . If you really must have stuff that locals would never in a million years buy , I do n't think there will be many options . If you want a bunch you could try to find wholesale dealers , liquidation outlets and that sort of thing , but the details would vary greatly from place to place and it might not be practical , let alone economical , even if you were fluent in the language and willing to travel all over the city .
Your passport qualifies to <URL> if you prefer . It costs a little less in the short run , but you will have to mail your passport with the application form . Although I was not able to find any info specifically on <URL> about this topic , any restrictions on how early you can renew are conspicuously absent . Information on various US embassy pages from other countries also suggests that you can renew at any time : From <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may apply to renew your U.S. passport at any time . From : <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may <URL> at any time before or after it expires .
The amount of radiation you 're exposed to on an airplane flight depends on a variety of factors , including the altitude , latitude , and duration of the flight . As an example , a flight from New York to Tokyo is probably about 150 μSV . For comparison , natural background radiation is about 2,000-7 ,000 μSv per year , a chest x-ray is about 50 μSv , and a medical CT scan is about 10,000 μSv . Some of the other answers have referred to the BED ( banana equivalent dose ) , but unfortunately the BED is scientifically wrong , because the body maintains a constant amount of potassium , so ingesting more does n't increase your exposure . The question asked about the comparison with the radiation exposure from airport scanners . There are two types of full-body scanners , backscatter x-ray and millimeter wave . In the US , the TSA is eliminating all backscatter x-ray scanners by June 2013 , so the only type remaining will be millimeter wave scanners . Millimeter wave scanners do not use ionizing radiation , so the radiation exposure is zero . I assume backscatter x-ray machines will continue to be used in airports in at least some other countries ; the radiation exposure is about 0.05-0 .1 μSv per scan , which is about a thousand times less than exposure during the flight . There is strong evidence that small doses of radiation do not cause even a small negative health effect in proportion to the dose ( which would be the LNT , linear no-threshold hypothesis ) . In fact , there is quite a bit of evidence that small radiation doses provide a health benefit , an effect called radiation hormesis . This may be because the radiation activates cellular repair mechanisms . However , the dose received from an airplane flight is much too small to provide any positive or negative effect worth considering on an individual basis .
No , you ca n't . It 's a very , very busy working port , full of reversing trucks and cranes flinging about multi-ton containers , many of which contain valuable and/or hazardous cargo . Short of getting a job , the <URL> is to apply for a Temporary Pass , which requires a good reason and a company already operating in the port to sponsor you . But if you want to get close , you can go for lunch or a drink at the <URL> , which is ( partly ) open to non-members and is located right next to the Pasir Panjang bit of the port . Alternatively , take a bumboat cruise from Marina South , although I 'm not entirely sure these are still operating now that they 're building the new cruise centre there . Most tall buildings nearby will also have good views of the Keppel Terminal , although there 's no public observation deck or anything ; nobody will stop you from going up into the HDB ( public housing ) buildings at Spottiswoode Park though . The best way overall , though , is to watch <URL> on YouTube .
No , you ca n't . I know a lot about planes and their systems and I can tell you for sure , some tissues can block the toilet . I am sure your butt is a bit heavier and bigger than some tissues . Also , some planes have a manual handle to control the flush in case it is stuck open . It happens sometime and the only bad side is not sucking people 's butts , but the very loud sound . So do not worry , flying is safe for people , that includes their precious butts :) For more details about butts being stuck in planes toilets , please DO NOT watch the <URL> movie ;)
There are cases of customs and immigration demanding the passwords to phones or laptops , and then taking them out of sight of the passenger to use them and search them . Apparently by law you must provide these passwords when asked , and you may not follow the officers around to see what they do with your devices ( such as putting USB sticks into them to copy data . ) ( For the specific question of " can they really do that ? " see <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> The best prevention for this problem is almost certainly not to have the sensitive data on the laptop at all . It can be in some sort of cloud storage and you can copy it onto your laptop after you clear the border . The second best prevention is to have the data with you but hidden . People have suggested a dual-boot setup , where the machine is booted into one OS that does not have access to the sensitive data at all , and only if they reboot the machine will they know that another OS even exists . Hidden encrypted partitions have also been suggested . While this may work , if it is noticed it will suddenly make everyone very suspicious and get you a lot more attention , so it may not be worth the risk . You can also use USB devices that do n't appear to be USB devices at first glance - I own a beer bottle opener USB and I know someone with a watch USB - to carry the data . While I have seen laptops and phones searched on episodes of Border Security ( generally snooping through emails to see if someone is coming into the country to work or to stay forever ) I have never seen USB sticks searched , and I suspect USB sticks that do n't appear to be data storage devices would be ignored . ( I also once carried a bunch of Word documents on an SD chip in a camera , not for cloak and dagger reasons but just to have one less thing to lose . ) Related : <URL> The third best prevention is to convince yourself that an officer searching your laptop is searching for : contraband data itself , most notably child pornography proof that your story of where you have been or where you are going ( and why ) is true or not proof of your immediate future plans or immediate past activity names and contact information of people who can confirm your story or who can be investigated as part of your criminal behaviour They are not particularly searching for hot stock tips or the news that your company is considering acquiring another , nor the proprietary results of the latest tests on something you 're developing . That information may have tremendous value to someone , but a rogue or corrupt customs official is probably more interested in celebrity photographs than corporate intelligence . But if you ca n't shake your fears , then keep the data off the laptop and if possible entirely off your person as you cross the border .
You should be fine . <URL> : If you are importing or exporting monetary instruments equal to or greater than CAN$ 10,000 ( or the equivalent in a foreign currency ) , you must report the amount to the CBSA when you arrive or before you leave Canada . This applies to either cash or other monetary instruments . Even if you do want to bring in more cash than the CAN$ 10,000 limit , you are allowed to do so - <URL> .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
Fast Lanes Are a No As you correctly point out , the UK is one of those countries where vehicles drive on the left hand lane . This means that overtaking is done by passing vehicles on the right . I do n't think that a the concept of a fast lane exists on UK motorways since one should always occupy the leftmost free lane and switch to adjacent lanes on the right solely to overtake . Indeed this is reflected <URL> : Rule 264 You should always drive in the left-hand lane when the road ahead is clear . If you are overtaking a number of slower-moving vehicles , you should return to the left-hand lane as soon as you are safely past . So Is Undertaking For completeness sake note that undertaking , I.e. passing vehicles on their inside ( left ) lane is forbidden in the UK , except for when dense traffic conditions force vehicle to proceed slowly on parallel lanes . Quoting from <URL> : Rule 268 Do not overtake on the left or move to a lane on your left to overtake . In congested conditions , where adjacent lanes of traffic are moving at similar speeds , traffic in left-hand lanes may sometimes be moving faster than traffic to the right . In these conditions you may keep up with the traffic in your lane even if this means passing traffic in the lane to your right . Do not weave in and out of lanes to overtake .
Not a problem . I 've taken all sorts of weirdly shaped items in the past ( including a full stereo system in shopping bags ! ) , and as long as you meet their criteria , ie : no explosives or other banned substances no blades or other banned items fits their width x height x depth restrictions weighs less than their weight limits then you 'll be fine taking it aboard . Saying that , measure the backpack first - I 'm taking a 30L pack on a flight again today and it 's actually small enough to fit into most airlines ' carry-on limits . EDIT : Now that their site is working for me , I can see there 's actually a FAQ about this on that link above : I carry a big purse . Will I be charged a fee to bring that on board or can it count as my personal item ? Which sorta covers your question - basically will something large be too large ? And they respond . . All carry-on and personal items must fit within Allegiant 's luggage dimensions and may be verified prior to boarding . Please measure your bags carefully , including exterior wheels , pockets , and decoration . Personal items which do not fit completely underneath a seat may be considered a carry-on bag and passengers will be charged accordingly . Excess and oversize bags may be gate checked . The personal item must not exceed exterior dimensions of 7 in . x 15 in . x 16 in . ( 17.8 cm x 38.1 cm x 40.6 cm ) and must be placed under the seat . The carry-on bag 's exterior dimensions must not exceed 9 in . x 14 in . x 22 in . ( 22.9 cm x 35.6 cm x 55.9 cm ) . So as expected , as long as your ' personal item ' , whatever it is , meets their requirements , you should be fine .
So , there are two mechanical solutions to , what is , fundamentally social problem , but before I provide them , I want to make clear that employing these is an easy way to be regarded as a jerk by your fellow passengers , and not without merit ; the seat is designed to recline , and while putting it back can be inconsiderate , restricting the use of the feature by others can be just as inconsiderate on a long flight . Think long and hard about just how much of an asshole you are willing to be before attempting to block the passenger in front of you from taking what small comfort they can in the horrid conditions found in coach class on a commercial airliner . First , the commercial solution : <URL> . A small device that clips onto the arms supporting the tray table , when the clip is in place , the seat in front of you is unable to recline . It can be adjusted to allow for limited recline , if you 're feeling considerate , but the ' courtesy card ' provided by the manufacturer should be pretty clear evidence that this is inherently a pretty inconsiderate product . If , in addition to being a jerk , you 're also a cheapskate , you might want to look into using a <URL> as a shim to prevent the seat in front of you from reclining . Like the Knee Defender , this has the downside of requiring that you keep your tray table down to rescue your precious legroom , and , unlike the Knee Defender , also will take up some space on the tray table , which may or may not bother you . It is similarly inconsiderate to use . Alternately , you could be less of a jerk , and pay the often pretty nominal premium to get a bulkhead facing/exit row seat , where nobody is in front of you to recline .
The statement ' there is no speed limit on the Autobahn ' is not really correct . I could n't find any official statistics , but I 've seen a number of only 50 % of German Autobahns without any limit . Many parts have a permanent limits of 120 or 130 km/h ( 74 mph or 81 mph ) . Some parts are limited to 80 ( 50 mph ) due to construction work . Also , some limits are only for wet roads . Finally many parts have dynamic speed limit signs that change based on the traffic situation . Even though there is no general limit for the 50 % , there is a recommended speed of 130 km/h ( 81 mph ) . If you are going much faster and there is an accident , it is more likely you are blamed for it ( if you survive it , which is unlikely ) . Autobahn police can still pull you over for reckless driving or driving too fast in certain situations even when there was no limit . How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ? This really depends on the situation , there are some stretches in less populated areas that get relatively light traffic and you can drive 200 km/h ( 125 mph ) with no problem . It also depends on the time of day . There is rush hour traffic that limits your speed anyways . Late at night it is usually empty and you can go fast . It also depends on you car , it makes a big difference if you go 200 km/h in a big BMW or Porsche or a smaller older car . It is also much more tiring to go fast , you have to concentrate much more at 200 than 120 because any tiny mistake has much bigger consequences . I had several friends visiting from overseas , renting a car and then were too scared to drive really fast . If you are planning to go fast , start with a speed you are comfortable with from home and then increase it over time . Do n't go 230 km/h ( 143 mph ) as soon as you hit the Autobahn for the first time .
Strikes usually end officially at 10 p.m. , but do n't count on any train after that time . There might be an odd train , but usually there is not . In reality the normal schedule resumes the next morning with a few cancelled trains still possible . Source : I take the train daily in Belgium and have seen my share of strikes . If you are referring to the upcoming strike on December 15th , keep in mind that the train schedule changes completely on December 14th , making December 15th the first weekday of the new schedule . With the strike , in reality that will become December 16th . For this reason , I think it is wise to allow sufficient margin in your planning , even on December 16th . Source : just my gut feeling . Nobody really knows .
The <URL> describing just this , including how to apply for travel documents if one was stateless . They note that : A stateless persons ' document issued to an adult will usually be valid for 10 years if you have permission to stay in the United Kingdom permanently ( known as ' indefinite leave to remain ' ) . If you have temporary permission to stay in the United Kingdom ( known as ' limited leave to remain ' ) , your stateless persons ' document will usually be valid for the same period as your permission to stay here , up to a maximum of five years . In addition they point out that if granted , a stateless persons ' document is normally valid for travel to all countries . Indeed , since 1954 , you 've been able to obtain a ' <URL> ' which for all intents and purpose , acts as a travel document , like a passport . Indeed , it says ' travel document ' on the front cover . This arose from the <URL> .
There is no universal rule on stamping visas , entry or exit stamps in passports other than , they are not supposed to be stamped on Amendment / Endorsements pages in the back of passport ( but if there is no other space ... ) In the good old days , passport pages were divided into quarters and countries used two quarters , left for the entry , right for the exit stamps . I think it was more just customary rather than mandatory . Today immigration stamps come in a myriad of sizes and shapes , and many immigration officers ca n't be bothered to make the stamping look neat . Most will try to put the entry and exit stamps on the same or facing pages . I have pages with 6 to 8 stamps on them . Some countries do have rules that your passport needs to have XX completely blank pages and you will not be granted entry ( nor be allowed to board the plane to those countries ) without the blank pages . Others will simply stamp in any blank spot big enough for their stamp .
end question
start question
Why do consulates take away your passport to issue the visa ?
I can answer this for the UK and Schengen members ... In the first instance , consulates take your passport because there are <URL> is issued . Prominent among those are ... Paragraph 24 , which states ... The following must produce to the Immigration Officer a valid passport or other identity document endorsed with a United Kingdom entry clearance issued to him for the purpose for which he seeks entry : ... Paragraph 27 , which states ... An application for entry clearance is to be decided in the light of the circumstances existing at the time of the decision ... Paragraph 28 , which states ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application ... ( These rules are all found at <URL> ) From these it 's clear that they need to take possession of the travel document in order to assess its validity . And from Paragraphs 27 and 28 they need to be sure that the conditions of issuance are ' fixed ' to a specific date and time . It means that the applicant has not travelled with the passport in the interval between submission and issuance , and ( to the extent possible ) the applicant is not in the UK when the decision is made . In addition , the Entry Clearance Officer has to assess the application . These things can not be done ' while-you-wait ' and holding the passport helps to guarantee that Paragraphs 24 , 27 , and 28 are diligently observed . There are some practical and administrative considerations that come into play ... Those visa stickers are affixed to the passport page by a machine and there 's usually one machine per post . The passports need to be sequenced , fed in to the machine , and then checked by a human . This is done as a background task by local hires who may be on shift work in a batch . Trying to arrange a batch according to whoever showed up is administratively impractical . In the UK case , they do n't like people hanging around the consulate , they like to make the decision entirely by paper-based evidence ( they really do not like to engage the public directly for various reasons not worth going in to here ) . Moreover , the security is not staffed up for lengthy queues . So they use a VFS to ring-fence the consulate from engaging directly with the public ( yes , there are exceptions where they need to see someone but these are not the normal case ) . In keeping with the above , most of the world is set up to use the <URL> as a intermediary , the applicant drops off their stuff and then returns to collect it when they get a notification email . The VFS has no decision-making role and largely acts as a secured courier , so it really makes no sense to have a queue of people hanging around the VFS waiting for a visa to be affixed . In places like Nigeria , the passport and evidence may be sent to their special assessment unit that performs ' deep analysis ' . This can take several weeks and it would not make sense to separate the passport from the other evidence during this phase . In the Schengen cases where the applicant must report to the consulate for an interview , it would mean making two trips to the consulate : one for the interview and one to collect their stuff , this is thought to be an unreasonable burden on the applicant . Especially in the British case , there is an overarching cultural influence best called : ( TITWTW , ' titwah ' ) . This usually operates as a stand-alone rationale for a lot of things in the UK and visas are no exception . If you encounter TITWTW , the discussion has reached its conclusion . Other answers in the archives here have pointed out that the application location is not necessarily the decision location . Applications submitted in Morocco for example are decided in Croydon ( London suburbs ) . Applications submitted in Kabul are decided in New Delhi ( graphic from UKVI presentation ) . So where would the applicant queue ? <URL> And as a final note , yes , it 's possible for an applicant to have an ECO come around to their house or office , or for an applicant to show up at the consulate on a while-you-wait basis . They are very flexible and will accommodate almost anything you want ( I attended the <URL> on this topic and can attest to the flexibility ) . I have n't checked recently but the last time I looked , those services started at about GBP 15k and upwards from there . A person can also arrange for a private landing interview at Heathrow ( etc ) and they will even send someone to small airports like Robin Hood . Note : most of the above are stated as UK specific , Schengen members have comparable or similar conditions . Note : dual nationals ( or holders of duplicate passports ) always come up with the corner case : can I apply for entry clearance with one passport and simultaneously enter the UK on my other passport ? This is theoretically possible because the IO may not always know that the person has applied for entry clearance using a second passport . But returning to Paragraph 28 , if they ever find out that the person was in th
I 've found the answer in the <URL> . The bad news is that if you renew your passport , you have to re-apply ( and pay again ) for a new ESTA : What should I do if the information on my passport has changed ? If you obtain a new passport or there is a change to your passport information , you must apply for a new travel authorization and pay the associated fees . There are <URL> that you can update about your ESTA without having to re-apply , but they are n't passport related . The list is : E-mail address Telephone number Carrier Information City where you are boarding Address while in the United States
Passports are your ID when traveling globally . Driver licenses and national IDs are not always accepted as a form of ID in many countries . As such everyone who needs to verify your identification will ask to see your passport . For flights to the USA , there is often several layers of security employed . The first is a security check before you reach the check in counter , with a number of questions regarding destination , what you might be carrying etc. . They will check your passport . When you check in for the flight , the airline will need to document your identity ( via your passport ) and also if you have the proper visas or permissions to enter the country , as the airline will be fined if they knowingly board you without proper documents . Departing Immigration is only concerned about your visit to their country , they could care less if you are permitted to enter the next destination . At the gate , another layer of the US imposed security will again check your passport , boarding pass and sometimes even look through your carry on bags . They may also ask if you have the necessary documentation to enter the country . Why this last security check ... because you could give your boarding pass to someone else after you have checked in , someone who has less than desirable ideas in mind . And as I mentioned in my comment , it is impossible for any of these people to know all the rules for all the passports that might be presented . Too many rules and exceptions .
Even though the people who walk past are unlikely to be want to buy a suitcase right now , they are still the target demographic . How many other locations are there in a city where you can open a store where 100 % of the people that walk past are people that travel by air , and thus the type of people that will be in the market for your products ? How many non-airport locations around an area like the San Francisco Bay Area would you need to open a store in order to pretty much guarantee that every person who flies internationally at least once a year walks in front of your store ? A dozen ? A few dozen ? How about if you do it in an airport ? Perhaps 2 ? ( eg , SFO has 2 international terminals ) . Some of the luggage shops you find in airports are for a particular brand . eg , there is a Tumi store in Newark airport . Even if that store was to never actually sell a single piece of luggage , they are building their brand and allowing people to see and try their product range before going home and ordering the same pieces from their website or from another store - all of which works in their favor . The remainder of the stores generally sell high-end luggage which they would likely be able to ship to a home location if someone purchased something and was unable to take it with them or collect on their return trip . At the end of the day , do n't think of these as luggage stores , just think of them as high-end retail , marketing to a demographic that frequents airports ( high wealth/travelers ) .
I 've done the Pamir Highway in the summer of 2014 . It 's hard to answer the question how long it takes because it 's not a road for getting from A to B but it 's an experience in itself and you may want to spend as long as you can up there . There are several points to think about before heading out : Which route ? do you want to take , there are several options from Khorog , you can go south along the Afghan border to the Wakhan valley and then turn north to join the M41 . You can go north via the Bartang River or along the Shokh Dara valley . The most direct route is to leave Khorog on the M41 and stay on it all the way to Osh in Kyrgyzstan . I think all of them are worth taking , you could do the Southern loop and come back to Khorog and then do the M41 . How to travel ? , the easiest way is to hire a jeep with a driver . This will be expensive , if you can find other people to form a group , it may be affordable , I was originally planning to do this , but never found more than one other person to join me . Using shared taxis ( usually SUVs , but also old Opels ) only gets you so far . You can get from Khorog to Ishkashim , or Murgab to Sary Tash , but you have to be very lucky to find them in the remote areas of the Pamirs , there are just not enough people travelling there . You can try to hitch , usually all cars and mini-buses still charge you something . On the M41 between Khorog and Murgab there are a few trucks every hour going to China . I hitched with several of them and they never wanted money . But in the Wakhan valley and between Murgab and Kyrgyzstan there are no trucks and very few cars . I remember one morning waiting at the side of the road not seeing a car for four hours either way . And finally you can cycle or walk . I started walking early in the morning and by 11 am when it got really hot I started hitching until I reached the next place with a homestay . How often to stop ? Besides Khorog only Murgab has one hotel . There are basic guest houses in Eshkashim and Jelandy , but otherwise it 's all homestays and there are not so many villages on the way . The tourist office in Khorog has a list of homestays , but I never used it . Whenever I got to a village it was easy to find a family that would take me in . There are many places to stop and do side trips on the way . Lots of hiking opportunities . I spent 17 days in the Pamir region , not long enough . If you have a hired jeep you can make it in two or three days from Khorog to Osh , but then you would n't stop much .
From the perspective of a traveler , there is almost zero difference . Both embassies and consulates are representative departments of a foreign country/government within another country . Technically , an Embassy is where an " Ambassador " is based . As there can only be one Ambassador for a specific country , there can only be ( at most ) one Embassy . As the Ambassador is the highest ranking representative of that foreign government , the Embassy is thus also deemed to be the highest level of representative location . A consulate is similar , but generally deemed to be a lower ranking due to the lack of an Ambassador . Consulates will generally be smaller - often being more like an office where the embassy often doubles as the actual residence for the Ambassador and/or some of his staff . Some countries may not have an embassy in a specific country , but may only have a consulate there . This will occur in the situation where there is no ambassador assigned to the country . From a travel perspective , both will generally provide the same services , and normally location will be far more relevant than the name . In some cases consulates may be slower to process requests as they may simply pass them onto the Embassy rather than doing them themselves . eg , the Australia consulate in San Francisco does not issue new passports - they are forwarded to the embassy in Washington DC , however all passport requests from people in the San Francisco area must be done via the local consulate and can not be sent directly to the embassy !
It 's been a while since I visited Cyprus . But I doubt things have gotten worse ; There are only a few border crossings , but crossing the border is quite painless , though the setting might resemble crossing from East to West Berlin before German unification . Public transport , on both sides , was limited when I was there . It should be possible to take a rental car from South to North . If you 're only two people , you could consider renting a scooter instead . There 's plenty to see in terms of history , but most tourists come for the beaches and visit the sights on organised tours . But , the road system ( in the south ) is excellent and , with your own transport , it 's easy to get around and visit the sights yourself .
I live in Japan and every day commute with trains and metro . And can assure you that nobody will think you are rude by offering the seat . From my personal experience : I have a rule to always give up my seat to Disabled/injured people Pregnant women ( in Japan they wear a badge like this <URL> ) Elderly women and man People with huge bags ; often you 'll see women with gigantic , heavy bags they carry from shops The only thing is that I will confirm - many elderly people turn down the offer . Sometimes because they go out in the next station , sometimes they just do n't want to . But in any case they will give you a polite response . I actually feel more pressure to stay near the seat I 've given up , because Japanese will thank you many-many times after taking the seat and I feel shy of such attention for such a trivial thing . So long story short - feel free to show your kindness and do n't over-think about some people seeing it as rudeness . Especially in Japan where people are usually very polite .
Manuel , apparently there 's a document called ARB , Autorização de Retorno ao Brasil ( " Authorization to Return to Brazil " ) . I first found it on <URL> , then I found it on the <URL> . Sadly , I could not find any link on that subject in a website from brazilian consulate or embassy in Australia . In short , ARB it is a document valid for a single trip back to Brazil . Once in the country , it will be seized by the authorities and you 'll need to renew your Brazilian passport before leaving the country ( or use your Australian one ) . I 'm sure you can call your nearest consulate in Australia and obtain this document that will allow you to come back to Brazil .
As a rule of thumb , visas are issued by independent states , while subnational entities issue entry permits . Also , as another rule of thumb , a visa is granted in advance but an entry permit is given on arrival . The Cook Islands are a dependency of New Zealand that control their own immigration ( hence the entry permits ) , but " outsource " their foreign policy to New Zealand and thus operate no overseas embassies that could grant visas . The vast majority of visitors also receive their permits on arrival , although there is a provision to apply in advance for longer stays/work permits . Some other examples of subnational entry permits : Andaman and Nicobar Islands ( India ) , Mount Athos ( Greece ) , Sarawak ( Malaysia ) ...
I believe it depends on the issuing authority , but usually about two weeks if you pay the fee to have it expedited . You really ca n't ask for a definitive time , because it also depends on how busy they are . I have friends who paid the fee and got their passports renewed in just under two weeks , but that was a few years ago . If you were born outside of the US and the issuing authority is the US State Department , it can take longer . I was informed of this when I received my daughter 's passport , she was born abroad . If you are out of the country and renewing through your local embassy , give it several months either way . I recently got a renewal in Manila which took just under 10 days , and inquired if that 's the usual amount of time from most embassies and they said yes . But , do n't let paperwork kerfuffles jeopardize your travel plans , or being abroad without a valid passport for a little while . Additionally , if renewing the passport for someone under the age of 16 , bring pictures of them that show their growth from their last passport photo to their appearance now . The consulate might let you slide if the resemblance is uncanny , but be prepared - not having these could cause substantial delays . To be safe , I 'd allow at least two months . You might not be able to expedite it if you 're out of the country , so keep that in mind . Otherwise , pay the extra fee , the worst that can happen is you get it sooner than expected . That is of course if not having it renewed in time might put a dent in your travel plans .
The rule is actually 60 min for domestic , 120 min for international . Some companies , like Delta , even require 3 hours for international flights . That could have a series of motivations , mainly due to convenience . Bigger planes imply more luggage to load , more people to wait , more people to get on board . It seems reasonable that they do n't want the plane to get delayed with people who came barely earlier than 30 min . And they obviously need to admin on board everyone who came before the stipulated time .
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
The answer you get will depend entirely on who you ask ... If you ask the tour operator they will claim they use a Kitty system as it makes it easier to get the money to the tour operators and the passengers generally give it to them directly on day one , often in local currency or currency that can be used locally ( such as US$ ) . It also allows them to change the Kitty amount after the trip has been booked and paid for if local conditions change - ie , they are moving some of the risk of price fluctuations from the tour company to the passenger , even if the passenger did the right thing and booked and paid early . If you ask most tour passengers , it 's simply a way for them to make the trip look cheaper . Rather than advertising a tour as being $ 2000 , they can advertise it as being $ 1500 , and then in the small print mention that there 's a $ 500 kitty payable . If you ask a travel agent , they will tell you that the kitty is a way of the tour company avoiding paying them commission . Travel agents will normally earn a percentage of the price paid for a trip , but only of the component that is the actual " price " of the trip , not any extra components such as the kitty , so they miss out of commission of the kitty component . Some companies seem to abuse this more than others - the specific example you 've included in the question is a great example of that - the kitty price ends up being 40 % of what you pay for the trip ! In some countries ( Australia , US ) the tour companies are required to display the " full " price at time of booking , so the kitty payment is at least clear before booking , but in other countries it 's not uncommon for the kitty price to not be clearly displayed , and it can some as quite a shock to some people when they find out about it after booking !
One option you have is to find a shopping mall or a supermarket that offers a photo booth . For instance , in the UK there is a chain called <URL> that sets up such booths in major shopping areas , and where you can get ' correct size ' pictures printed for visas . On a per picture basis this is an expensive option but nothing beats its ease-of-use . A more DIY method is to use an online service - there are many ; <URL> being one of the major ones - where you can upload a digital picture taken by yourself and then it formats the picture into the correct size for a passport / visa for a given country as multiples on standard photo printing sizes that are supported by photo print shops . You can either get this printed directly by them ( this is how they make money ) or just download the file and take it to a print shop at your convenience . The site also provides guidance on photo requirements ( such as glasses on/off , etc ) .
In Europe , the question is covered by <URL> . Annex I , section 5.3 reads Baggage reconciliation Each item of hold baggage shall be identified as accompanied or unaccompanied . Unaccompanied hold baggage shall not be transported , unless that baggage has been either separated due to factors beyond the passenger 's control or subjected to appropriate security controls .
I am not too sure about the " despite colonization " bit . I ca n't really see a pattern , one way or the other . Some ex-British colonies offer visas on arrival for British citizens ( e.g. Kenya ) , some do n't ( e.g. India ) and most treat <URL> or <URL> in exactly the same way . And then for some reason , Luxembourgish and Finnish citizenships -- but not British citizenship -- are the only ones in Europe to enable a visa on arrival in India . At the end of the day , the <URL> ( <URL> ) has British citizens tied with Swedes and Finns and not far above citizens from a host of other European nations , Australia , the US and Canada . So the small differences that do exist might simply be accidents and the main fact in all this is that citizens from rich nations generally have easier access to other countries , whatever their colonial history . Explanations for that might include the fact that it 's good for business and tourism or that these countries have more means to secure agreements through diplomacy , foreign aid , etc. . One glaring difference between UK and US citizens ( lack of visa-free visit or at least visa-on-arrival for Brazil ) might however be explained . I ca n't find an official source for that right now but I think Brazil has a strict reciprocity policy and only grants visa-free access to citizens of countries that do the same for Brazilian citizens . Brazilian citizens <URL> but <URL> .
It 's difficult to give a concrete , sourced answer to this without knowing which country we 're talking about . However , in most cases , I would n't worry about it if I was you , as long as your main intention is tourism . If you 're very keen on being careful , you could contact the embassy of whatever country you 're going to visit . But this has the very real danger of complicating the visa application process when the time comes . Maybe ask them after you 've returned ? ( <URL> ) The situation might change a little if you become known as someone selling photographs on the side ( For example , if you have a website , etc. ) This still seems very unlikely , though , but some countries will demand that all persons who are known to work in related professions visit on a journalist visa , regardless what they claim any given trip is for . For example , two years ago my mother , who works in publishing , wanted to visit India , purely as a tourist . The Indian Embassy demanded that , due to her profession , she did so on a journalist visa , regardless of her stated intentions for the trip . Now , since you probably are n't working in media , even this would n't apply to you . But if you got into the habit of selling photographs , had a website , or were otherwise known as someone making money from photography , it 's not impossible ( though still very unlikely ) that it could happen . Mostly though , if the main intention of your trip is tourism , most countries wo n't mind , let alone notice , if you happen to end up selling some of the photos you took as a tourist . I find it extremely unlikely that any government is gon na track down an amateur photographer after a trip and say " Hey , what kind of visa were you on when you took that photo ? " And even if it did happen , it 's such a gray area that you 'd be unlikely to get anything worse than a warning .
The latitude is less likely to matter than the time of the month . If it is at or near new moon , you will not see the moon at night . The " wrong side of the plane " reason can be seen as a subset of the " small window " reason , so I would say it is a combination of the small window ( combined with the plane 's orientation ) and the point in the lunar cycle at which you are flying . To improve your chances of seeing the moon in the future , fly during or near the full moon , and , if you have an east-west flight , sit on the port ( left ) side of the plane in the Northern Hemisphere , or the starboard ( right ) side of the plane in the south . If you are flying from west to east , reverse that . The full moon will be lower in the sky near the summer solstice ( late June in the north ; late December in the south ) . It will rise later and set earlier , too . If you try to see the full moon in the winter , near midnight , it is likely to be too high , unless you are very close to the pole . If you are flying a north to south route near the full moon , the moon will be in the east ( to your left ) in the early evening , overhead near midnight , and to the west ( right ) as dawn approaches . Again , if you are flying from south to north , reverse that . To see a dramatic crescent moon , fly a few days after the new moon on a route where you can look west just after sunset . Or , fly a few days before the new moon on a route where you can look east just before sunrise .
end question
start question
US immigration mix-up : will it cause problems on my next visit ?
You should be fine . All entry points across the country are synchronized to use the same records , so any notes made in San Diego will be visible next time you enter , regardless of where you go . That said , there is a ( small ) risk is that the CBP officer did not completely fix up your records , so when you leave the country , your exit is not tied to your entry . If yes , because the US has no record of you leaving , you might be considered an illegal overstayer and get stopped the next time you come . If you have proof you left the US , eg . an entry stamp into another country , you can sort this out on the spot ; if not , things could get hairy . In a sane country , this would be sorted out at exit immigration , but Uncle Sam does n't have that . If you want to check , you could write to the CBP FOIA department and request a <URL> , which should show your entries and exits , and then you can ( try to ) take action if your exit does n't show . All that said , the mix-up with your niece sounds bizarre and confusing . As a wild guess , I 'd guess somebody screwed up some data entry when they were processing your visa , although I still do n't understand how they could possibly substitute your niece 's details . Which visa do you have , and did she sponsor your application or something ?
Down is more dangerous . There are three factors contributing to this . When you need to decide on a slowdown in case of potential accident , you basically need to annihilate momentum , and when you are going up , gravity contributes to the total work needed to slow down . When you are going down , gravity works against your intent to slow down , and brakes alone against gravity cant do the same job as brakes plus gravity in case of going up . Second , brakes can ... well ... break . I know of a driver who actually burned his brakes while going down . It was a Russian military truck in Caucasus mountains with manual transmission and the driver was not that experienced with it . Third , when you brake your vehicle 's stability depends on the force on the brakes . When you brake hard as you go down , you can send the vehicle to a drift . I actually have experienced that in the center of Moscow on an extreme slope near the river . Drift can happen when you go up too because of the drag but in that case the car would likely slow down by itself due to gravity .
Yes , it 's perfectly feasible to visit Malaysia in that time . Since you talk about things to see near the border , I assume you want to go to <URL> , which is the town on the other side of the Singapore-Malaysia border . You can follow the link to the Wikivoyage page , which contains a number of sights in the city . Clearing immigration in Singapore airport is usually painless and fairly quick . You should allow around 2 hours from central Singapore ( or a tad more from the airport ) to JB Sentral station in Johor Bahru ( credit jpatokal : <URL> ) , assuming it 's not a holiday or some other peak traffic time . You 'd then have several hours to wander around JB before returning to Singapore . Do note that , since your main goals are shopping and eating , and you only have 18 hours , Singapore might be able to satisfy your needs ( indeed , Singapore is sometimes criticized for having shopping and food as its only attractions ) . Crossing the border seems rather time-consuming relative to the amount of time you 'd be able to spend in Malaysia .
I can imagine that two things might be denoted by the term immigration area : A place where immigration controls take place . This is more commonly known as passport control , or perhaps immigration control , or an immigration checkpoint . A place where people are considered , for immigration purposes , to be in " international territory . " This is more precisely known as the international area of the airport , or the transit area . ( It is also sometimes called airside , or the sterile area , but this is ambiguous , because it might refer to areas protected by security screening that are domestic territory for immigration purposes . ) Airports handle the second item differently . For example , in most Schengen area airports , you can transfer to another flight within the international transit area without passing through immigration control , provided that you are arriving from a point outside the Schengen area and transferring to a flight to somewhere outside Schengen area . On the contrary , in the United States , all arriving international passengers must pass through the immigration checkpoint before they can reach any connecting flights . In cases like this , the international area of the airport contains only arriving passengers , and comprises the corridors connecting the arrival gates to the immigration checkpoint .
If your both legs are on the same ticket ( made in the same booking ) then they will definitely check in your luggage to the final destination . You will just change planes without going through immigration . If you have two separate bookings than it is not as obvious - contact the airline to double check .
It 's very easy , and a quick google search for ' antipode ' and ' map ' will find sites that find it for you . For example , <URL> either detects your location , or you can enter one , and it 'll show you on a zoomable map where your antipodal destination is . Unfortunately as shown by <URL> , only about <URL> , and only a tiny fraction of Brazil is antipodal to Japan ( in fact , to the islands of Okinawa and Amami ) . A rather larger amount of Brazil ( but still a small fraction of the country as a whole ) is antipodal to the Philippines and Indonesia , along with Brunei , parts of Malaysia and the South Korean island of Jeju . Without knowing your exact location I ca n't be sure where it ends up . I 'll leave that last step up to you ! Another <URL> site shows it quite nicely side by side . I can click and zoom in on New Zealand and the other window zooms in at the same time to show me northern Spain - the antipode .
Airlines tend to charge full fare for last minute bookings , rather than discounting it to try and fill one more seat . The stereotypical last minute booking is from a business person , who has to be there and is flying on someone else 's dime , hence does n't mind paying whatever is asked . So there is no real motivation to discount the fares . The number of people like yourself who might be looking for a cheap last minute escape are a very small minority . Usually about the only thing that gets discounted at the last minute is upgrades , as airlines may try to raise a bit of last minute cash if their first class is empty and there are n't that many eligible elite flyers on the flight . All that said , there is nothing wrong with giving it a shot , as there are exceptions to every rule of thumb . Just do n't get your hopes up .
Immigration happens in Munich ( i.e. where you are first arriving in the Schengen area ) . Two hours should be enough time to pass through immigration and change planes . If both of your flights are on one booking in fact Lufthansa will get you on a later flight to Dusseldorf in case of delays and deems that time enough since they were willing to sell you this ticket .
You are asked those things for ( as far as I can tell ) two reasons . One is to simply observe your demeanor . The idea is that someone who is concealing something will give conflicting , vague , or over-detailed answers to simple questions . The other is to seek real information that can be used to distinguish smugglers from travelers . For example , I once had the following conversation with the Border lady : " How long was your trip ? " " 10 days . " " Where did you go ? " " The Golden Triangle : northern Thailand and eastern Burma . " " Did you travel alone . " " Yes . " " Did you meet anyone while you were traveling ? " " Sure , dozens of people . " Needless to say , everything I was carrying was examined minutely . I did n't know you could disassemble a Bic pen . Do you have to answer ? No , you can decline to answer if you 're a US citizen , but think about it . In general , you should be extremely reluctant to answer any questions about your own activities from law enforcement . You might think you have done nothing wrong , but do you have the US Code committed to memory ? They say the average American commits <URL> ; you do n't want to accidentally confess to yours . But if you go through a border-check , they are going to ask you questions . They are n't trying to incriminate innocent people ; they are trying to sort out the smugglers . If you do n't answer , they have to throw you on the maybe-smuggler category and go through all your belongings . So my advice : If you have done anything on your journey that might jam you up with the Feds ( visited Cuba , traded with a sanctioned country ) but your luggage is squeaky clean , decline to answer questions and let them rummage through your underwear . If you were a naughty boy and you are bringing back a few grams of fond memories , smile politely and say , " I just lay on the beach for two weeks . " Otherwise , answer the questions politely , accurately , and concisely .
Following is <URL> . The key para within this is : ( 2 ) to arrest any alien who in his presence or view is entering or attempting to enter the United States in violation of any law or regulation made in pursuance of law regulating the admission , exclusion , expulsion , or removal of aliens , or to arrest any alien in the United States , if he has reason to believe that the alien so arrested is in the United States in violation of any such law or regulation and is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained for his arrest , but the alien arrested sh all be taken without unnecessary delay for examination before an officer of the Service having authority to examine aliens as to their right to enter or remain in the United States They have the powers to deny you entry but this again is tracked , recorded and in most situations the immigration officers are very vigilant not to allow their personal beliefs and apprehensions dilute the facts of the case at hand . It is true that they might not be polite with you or behave in manner showing respect - but when it comes to denying entry - they would be very careful not to be seen as biased or prejudiced . One has ability to <URL> . This would then become a fight which one can take it to a finish if one is committed enough . But yes as mentioned in the question here - there are chances of one being denied entry with no proper reasons which depends on the type of immigration officer one encounters
As far as my understanding goes , you can visit Cuba , but you can not spend money there . The USA has an embargo on Cuba . <URL> . You need a license to actually participate in commerce ... but since that includes buying food you in essence can not go to Cuba . Licenses are released however . I have a Cuban uncle who goes back once a year . The valid reasons as per <URL> are : Professional journalists on assignment in Cuba Full-time professionals conducting academic research or attending professional conferences Persons on official government business The following are issued on a case by case basis : Persons visiting immediate family in Cuba Full-time graduate students conducting academic research to be counted toward a graduate degree Undergraduate or graduate students participating in a study abroad program of at least 10 weeks in length Professors/teachers employed at a US institution travelling to Cuba to teach Persons engaging in religious activities Freelance journalists Persons engaging in humanitarian projects Persons engaging in non-profit cultural exhibitions So in summary , is it open travel ? No . Is it possible ? Yes . The most common way around this that I have heard is " travel writers . "
I was on a train with a Canadian who experienced this . We left Irkutsk , Russia heading towards Ulan Bator , Mongolia on the ... let 's say Tuesday , the last day of his visa . Seemed ok , but we did n't actually cross the border until early on the Wednesday . The result - he was a few hours over his visa . The security and passport people came on the train , took our passports , and announced - " there is problem " . He was whisked off the train , and we debated dividing up his stuff - there 'd been no indication what was going to happen . A couple of hours later ( we were at the border for ages ) he returned . He 'd been fined for overstaying , and apparently there 's a base fine , and an additional fine per day over . Plus a mark in his passport for overstaying , if I recall correctly . You wo n't get stuck in Russia . But you will get in trouble . Get an earlier bus , or if you can , adjust your visa . Either way , do n't overstay .
Baggage will normally be transferred automatically if you are on a multi-segment trip consisting of transfers ( connections ) rather than stopovers . A transfer is normally 4 hours or less on a domestic itinerary and 24 hours or less on an international itinerary . If the itinerary consists of multiple airlines , the airlines must have an interline baggage agreement to allow the automatic baggage check-through . On some airline combinations , this may also occur even if the itinerary consists of separate tickets . Certain airlines and airports may have other restrictions , for example a given airport may not allow baggage to be checked through if there is an overnight layover at that airport , even though it would be allowed if the layover was the same duration during the day . If your baggage is checked-through to final destination , the final destination and intermediate transfer airports will be shown on the bag tag , so it is useful to glance at this to make sure it has your intended destination on it ; sometimes your bag will be checked-through to a different airport than you were expecting .
According to the <URL> there is currently no US Immigration preclearance location in the UK . That does n't mean that there wo n't be any in the future as : Beginning in 2015 , the United States intends to enter into negotiations in order to expand air preclearance operations to new locations . Now as far as clearing immigration and customs in Miami within 2 hours it is definitely possible but it depends on whether or not the terminal is busy or not and whether your ticket to Gainesville is on the same ticket as the rest of your trip or not in that case airline should facilitate your trip through immigration and customs in the US to make your flight .
All biometric passports have serial numbers that change when issued . Per this notice from the Singaporean government , this is an ICAO requirement : <URL> And since virtually all passports are now biometric , even those countries ( like Singapore ) that did not previously change numbers do so now . Update : Here 's <URL> " Specifications for Machine Readable Passports ( MRPs ) and other TD3 Size MRTDs " direct from the <URL> : Field 05/I ( Mandatory ) Passport Number As given by the issuing State or organization to uniquely identify the document from all other MRTDs [ machine readable travel documents ] issued by the State or organization . " Uniquely identify the document " means that the number can not be reused for other documents . And of course it 's only a " recommendation " , because ICAO only sets standards and does not enforce them -- but if countries produce passports that do n't follow the rules , they 're not going to be accepted by other countries . In particular , <URL> . And a final nit : the standard above is technically for machine-readable passports , which is not quite the same thing as biometric passports , but the standard in question does document the rules of biometric passports , and all biometric passports are supposed to follow the rule above .
I just found the right tool for you <URL> , it does exactly what you want , it shows the path along with the day/night status in the exact position of the aircraft . It is a Windows Application ( from the days they used to call it program ) , click on the menu . Here is a screenshot ( the large red dot is the plane ) : And to answer the first part , you will have the sunrise above the ocean , the sunset somewhere above eastern Africa . Disclaimer : I am not the owner of the tool , I found it by searching , I scanned it and it seemed fine . Use it at your own risk .
For Mount Kilimanjaro you have to book your trip through a Kilimanjaro trekking agency/climb operator that has been approved by the Kilimanjaro park authorities . You can book with a travel company that is licensed to run tours but these will often be a little more expensive . For a cheaper option when you get there ask around . You can find many local guides that 'll take you up . I have n't climbed Mount Elbrus but I would assume the same applies ( ask around once you get there ) .
The lottery part is merely for the right to apply for a Green Card , really , so if you are not selected in the lottery it is not considered a failed Visa application . My brother actually won the lottery and could have applied , but his plans had changed since entering and decided not to proceed . You can still use the ESTA and visa waiver stuff in future , in fact you can have more than one visa application outstanding at the same time , according to these imigration lawyers <URL> . It 's probably worth noting however , that having applied for immigration <URL> the US immigration authorities view of any subsequent visa applications , as they will take it as a signal that you wish to migrate to the USA . So if you apply for a tourist visa they make take that into account and decide that your real intent is to stay permanently . This is generally more of a problem for applicants form countries with a high rate of illegal immigration via overstaying short-stay visas , for example , in which I doubt Sweden ranks highly .
<URL> : I get a new passport , but I have a valid Chinese visa in my old passport . Can I travel with both passports to China without applying for a new visa ? Yes , you may travel with both passports provided that your visa is still valid and the personal details including your name , sex , date of birth and nationality on both passports are exactly the same .
I think you might be able to use a password instead . See <URL> : Gift Ticket Orders ( GTO ) are available for purchase on this website . GTO allows you to purchase a ticket online for another person . This ticket is delivered to the departure bus station , under the following criteria : The buyer pays a non-refundable gift ticket fee at time of purchase , regardless of number of tickets purchased Tickets may not be sent outside the U.S. Both stations must be open at the time of the transaction and of ticket pick-up Buyer and recipient should allow three hours from time of purchase to departure time to complete the transaction Appropriate ID or a password is required to pick up the ticket [ emphasis added ! ] Only the purchaser may cancel the ticket or apply for a refund Ah , yeah , I 'm pretty sure now . See also <URL> : Will Call tickets allow you to purchase a ticket online and then pick it up at the counter . If the credit card holder is traveling on the trip , present the credit card used for purchase , the reference number ( displayed after purchase ) , and valid photo ID . If the credit card is not presented at the counter , a fee will apply . A non-refundable fee also applies for Will Call orders . If the credit card holder is not traveling on the trip , the reference number and valid photo ID are required to pick up tickets . You also can create a password for the traveler to use as ID . A non-refundable gift ticket fee is applied to each Will Call transaction where the credit card holder purchasing tickets is not traveling on that trip . [ Emphasis added again , obvs . ] Hope this works out ! Good luck !!
end question
start question
Is Cambridge UK safe ?
These are the <URL> for Cambridge City , population circa 122,000 : I admit I nearly choked on my tea on seeing this question 's title but also that a comparison with Cambridge MA is slightly unfavourable -- though I suspect that adjustment for differences in classification and reporting would swing that around significantly . I have not been to Cambridge in a very long time -- and a good part of that is because my first impression was that it was exceedingly boring . Packed full of delightful scenery but otherwise DEAD ( admittedly in the days when early closing was commonplace - and my visit was on a Wednesday afternoon ! ) To query its safety would never have entered my head , so the fact the question has been asked may be a sign that Cambridge UK is much safer than you are used to . <URL> claims to be the largest taxi company in the city of Cambridge . Their web site has a calculator and from the Railway Station to a Travelodge in Orchard Park it estimates as # 10.20 ( 3.6 miles ) . Google has the travel time as about 15 minutes , so about # 20 , including a tip , for 1/2 hr .
Yes , you should be able to do that . That 's precisely what the single market is about and , incidentally , the reason why the EU enacts so many seemingly petty unrelated rules ( EU countries have to agree on rules regarding safety , labelling , etc. so that most products can then circulate freely between them instead of setting rules independently of each other and enforcing those rules at the border ) . Information provided on the <URL> reflects this : If you 're travelling from a country within the EU , you can bring any fresh foodstuffs - fruit , vegetables , meat , dairy or other animal products ( eg fish , eggs and honey ) - into the UK . ( This being based on EU law , French rules will be similar . ) The only exceptions to this general principle are things like firearms and drugs , for which rules have n't been harmonized . Even alcohol or tobacco can be carried between countries relatively freely , provided it is for your personal use ( quantitative thresholds <URL> are only guidelines based on the notion that very large quantities are not for personal use ) .
This is hard to answer with an authoritative source since the quality of non-potable water varies widely from the source it comes from ( is it groundwater ? river water ? is there anything recycled from drainwater from houses ? ) and even within a country . I 'm speaking mostly from my experience living in India , but in practice I have seen similar practices in Malaysia , Indonesia , Vietnam and Thailand too . None of these places have potable water supply ; the source is typically river or lake water . The reason why they are classed non-potable is primarily because of high mineral content or particulate matter , which can be purified for human consumption by physical filtration as opposed to bacterial disinfection - although as it has become cheaper and more compact to make ultraviolet or reverse osmosis filters for home use , these are also used . Bacteria or viruses are the causes for most water-borne diseases , those can get into the water supply if untreated raw sewage is dumped into water sources which thankfully most civil authorities are not stupid enough to do . So for the countries I mentioned , in practice , while it is customary to purify water for drinking either by boiling or using filtration devices , for other purposes such as washing clothes , washing dishes , cleaning hands , bathing , brushing teeth et al - essentially , anything that does not involve ingesting water , tap water is used directly . The water may taste funny for instance if you 're brushing your teeth - that 's because of the high mineral or iron content typically - but as for safety , yes , it can be considered safe .
I you see the trend of tourist coming to Nepal by land in 2013 . It shows more than 200000 tourist come from land and obviously from India . There are different route for coming to the border of Nepal , Some people also take train also . There are different entering route from Delhi , some famous are Bhairahawa , Birgunj , Mahendranagar . But connecting point is Narayangarh . Rode upto Narayangarh is better safe and construction is also going for widen up . But rode from Narayangarh-Muglin-Kathmandu looks danger as Tom said above specially in Rainy season .
TL ; DR : Yes . The Northern Territory is huge , and spans a range of climates from sopping-wet tropical to bone-dry desert . The <URL> ( Dec 2015 ) are primarily around the Daly River/Waters region , several hundred kilometers south of Darwin , and both Darwin itself and the tourist hubs of Alice Springs and Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , over 1000 km to the south , are entirely unaffected . All three have direct flights from Sydney . All that said , it 's <URL> right now in NT , meaning the tropical bits get a lot of rain even when it 's not outright flooding . Down at Uluru though , it 's summer and thus very dry and hot .
Disclaimer : keep in mind that receiving any advice regarding visas from a non-official source ( such as myself and , presumably , most people on this website ) is speculation at best . If you are uncertain , contacting an embassy and/or the company providing the course is highly recommended . That said , sponsorship probably does n't refer to financial sponsorship , but rather a so-called sponsor license that your course provider must possess . To quote the <URL> page from the official website : You must be accepted on a course with an education provider that holds a Tier 4 sponsor licence . On the same website , you can find a complete <URL> and a list of educational institutions that are exceptions to this rule . In short , it 's perfectly OK that you 're supporting yourself ( as long as you can provide bank statements or other evidence that you can ) , but it 's highly recommended that you contact your course provider for help regarding the sponsorship related fields .
It is , in my opinion , quite safe to travel by train in all parts of Europe . Depending on the country ( and the route ) , you always have an option of locking your stuff to the shelves above your seat ( or berth ) . I never had any trouble traveling by train in Europe . The only thing that I encountered in my travels was not a problem for me but it might be for others and that is that there are often young drunk people getting on the train so if you want some peace and quiet , they would probably disturb you . If not , join them , they 're almost always friendly and ready to accept travel/drinking buddies . ( This is usually in cabins , not in sleeper class . Also , it almost exclusively occurs on weekends , Thursday to Sunday . ) Your assumption that train travel outside Western/Northern Europe is unsafe is completely wrong . Train travel in Balkan countries ( I 'm from Croatia and travel almost exclusively by train in my country ) is very popular and a lot of people enjoy it . People you meet are almost always quite friendly and helpful and will look after your stuff in a cabin if you get to know them . Do n't want to be prejudicial but if you want a fellow traveler to look after your things , aim for older females , solo travelers or people you made a connection with by exchanging stories . Also , although no one will steal your stuff , you must n't forget your things on board a train even if you 're getting off at the last station since almost no one is taking those to the lost and found office ( and some stations do n't actually have any ) . That 's how I lost my fishing poles a few years back . Besides , that same train you arrived with can be scheduled to leave in a short while so you wo n't be able to check the train yourself . Hope this helped ...
According to the <URL> : The tap water in Albania may cause illness - you should drink only bottled water .
Wikipedia gives the reason <URL> . The Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument make provision for requiring passengers disembarking or embarking in the United Kingdom , or any class of such passengers , to produce to an immigration officer , if so required , landing or embarkation cards in such form as the Secretary of State may direct , and for requiring the owners or agents of ships and aircraft to supply such cards to those passengers . Hence the reason at the moment is that it 's the law , though the form of providing the information could be modified by statutory instrument at any time . The US did something similar with their I-94 forms a few years ago and made them all electronic . However , you still have to fill in a customs form when entering the US so it makes little difference unless you have Global Entry or use the mobile passport application . You can read the whole act <URL> and the specific section to do with landing cards <URL> . The purpose of them was explained in a freedom of information <URL> : Landing cards fulfil the following functions : to provide statistical information for use both inside and outside the department ; to provide a record of the arrival in the UK of persons subject to control ; and To enable the immigration officer to record what a passenger has said to him/her on his arrival , the circumstances which led to the granting of leave to enter and any information which may be useful to caseworkers if the passenger subsequently applies for an extension of stay .
I also read a lot of blog posts and heard stories about bus travel in Peru being dangerous . However , all the ones I was on were pretty good . I travelled in semi-cama and full-cama class , with a variety of companies . No problems with any , and most were pretty good at being on time , unlike a couple I had in Argentina . I travelled at night from Cusco to Arequipa , Arequipa to Lima , Lima to Mancora and up to and crossed the Ecuadorian border at night too . No problems at all . I heard the same about Colombia too , people were shocked that I 'd travel , but think logically - these buses go through these areas every single day and night , several companies . If there were problems every day , it 'd be in the news . It 'd be huge . This does n't mean you will be fine . Odds are you will be , but accidents do happen occasionally , everywhere . Be aware , keep your valuables with you ( and NOT under your seat ) , and when possible , travel with someone else as well , or get to know the people around you .
I can make no subjective comment as could one who lives in the region . If you are a US Citizen , the <URL> ( what a mouthful ) published , in April of 2015 , the <URL> which covers everything from what it calls terrorism to petty crime . This report is , of course , aimed for the US Citizen traveling to Israel , Jerusalem and the Gaza strip . A non-government page to visit for example , might be <URL> . Even though it is created and run by a single individual , the guidance is helpful , appears to be from someone who actually lives in Jerusalem , and is not all positive ( or negative ) . Carefully reading through both sites , IMO , you 're as safe ( or not ) in Jerusalem as anywhere else in the world , barring of course , actual war zones .
In short , no . Remember , you 're dealing with a bunch of government bureaucrats here , you 'll still need to satisfy <URL> . That said , having evidence of previous travel and ( the important part ! ) having returned home will be helpful in proving that you 're not planning to migrate to the EU permanently . However , I do n't think you 'll be able to apply while still in the UK , since <URL> . The good news is that obtaining a Schengen visa is relatively easy compared to getting a UK visa : lower application fees , shorter application forms , less supporting documentation needed , more locations where one may apply ( VFS global offices in 15 + cities , if you apply from Russia ) , a straightforward application process , shorter processing times .
Not really . Indonesian traffic cops in general and Balinese traffic cops in particular love <URL> and not having an IDP means an " instant fine " for you . Also note that you must have a motorcycle license in your home country and an IDP that covers this , an ordinary car license wo n't do . Then again , given that you can usually get away for Rp 50,000 ( ~ US$ 5 ) , if you 're only there for a short time you can do the math to figure out which is cheaper . Rental agencies do not care either way , although any insurance you may have may be invalidated if you do n't have a valid IDP . ( And no , I would n't usually recommend breaking the law , but if you 're a licensed driver with a license in English , this silly insistence on expensive additional pieces of paper is not much short of a scam in itself . )
My understanding is that chlorine , in the concentrations found in drinking water , does not pose an acute health danger . There may be health risks associated with long-term exposure , and this is a more controversial topic , where the literature and expert opinions are mixed . Most main-stream information seems to suggest it 's safe , but the skeptics claim a corporate bias , etc. . Some of the long-term exposure risks reported are <URL> . Note that much of claimed risk is associated with long , hot showers , not drinking it . If you 're only visiting for a while , and do n't have any known Chlorine sensitivities , you 'll probably be just fine . If the taste bothers you , or you 're especially concerned about long-term health affects , drink bottled water . Some related SE posts : <URL> <URL> <URL>
The website I prefer for UK train timetables is <URL> . One of it 's handy features is being able to look up the last train of the day , for example <URL> . As Roflcoptr pointed out , the last weekday train at the moment is the 22:35 , which gets you into Cambridge at 01:22 ( via a cross London transfer to Kings Cross ) . You might just be able to get away with the 22:50 from Gatwick , if you have n't got too much luggage . The 22:50 gets into London Victoria at 23:20 , which gives you 40 minutes to get down to the tube , wait for a tube , travel 5 stops , and get up to the station . Fine if there are no problems and you 're not too bad for luggage , but ca n't be guaranteed ... Otherwise , it 's a National Express coach to London , then change onto a different National Express coach to Cambridge . The website for looking up times and prices is <URL> . Does n't look good though , leaving Gatwick at 23:40 today wo n't get you to Cambridge until about 5am ...
In Wikipedia there is a <URL> about the relations between Croatia and Serbia For the first time in history , Serbia as an independent country will be represented by its national team against the Croatian team on March 22 , 2013 in qualification group A of the 2014 FIFA World Cup . For the safety of the lives of those attending the next two matches in 2013 , the football federations of Serbia and Croatia will cooperate to ban foreign guests from coming to the stadiums at which the two games will take place . So I think it 's not possible to attend this game . And even if 's allowed , it 's not a good idea . There will be a lot of police , but it will be still dangerous on and around the stadium
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
In my experience , a " visa at the airport " ( or " the border " ) is something you pay for , and probably fill out an application form for . A US citizen entering the UK as a general visitor does neither . In addition , such a visa usually takes the form of a piece of paper stuck into the passport on one of the visa pages , not just an inked stamp . There is no such piece of paper for US tourists in the UK . I also note that the government site <URL> says that a US citizen coming as a tourist " wo n't need a visa " -- they do not say that you have an implicit visa represented by the passport stamp or anything like that . They say that you do not need a visa . That implies that the passport stamp is not a visa .
There were many crimes ( a few cases of rape , mostly theft , robbery , and assault ) during the <URL> which have been attributed to young migrants from North Africa . The police underestimated the situation and mishandled the aftermath . Under German law , rape is distinct from sexual assault . According to Wikipedia , there were three rape cases . Similar crimes happen at a much lower rate at trouble spots like the Kottbusser Tor in Berlin . Bavaria has a reputation for being tough on crime , especially at events like the Oktoberfest . Summarized , you should be pretty safe unless you end up drunk in a dark alley at 3 a.m. That 's dangerous anywhere in the world .
I 'll answer my own question after staying in Rio and doing the trekking . This trail is completly safe in all sense . There are police controls in the first part of the trail ( the Pista Cláudio Coutinho ) and in the upper part ( the cable-car station ) . In reality , all the area is a militar settlement , so I doubt that anybody try to attack you there . In the other hand , the trail is not so difficult as the video posted by @DarkLightA shows . Nowadays there are no need of ropes or similar to climb and the main problem is the mud if the previous day has rained ( slipper danger ) . We take more than a hour to arrive to the " top " so consider the wikitravel time estimation as very optimistic . Also the " top " is not the real top . There are 2 cable-car stations , the first one is where you can get by walking this trail , but the second one is the upper one ( but the views are similar ) .
end question
start question
What is the Difference Between Air Conditioning and Climate Control ?
Based on the way they organize the filters : Air Conditioning Only Climate Control Only Air Conditioning and Climate Control Climate Control and Ceiling Fan I would say that " climate control " refers to heating . So you have : rooms that have only AC rooms that have only heat rooms that offer heat and AC rooms with heat and ceiling fans for " cooling " Addendum - - - Since everyone was getting off these computer controlled thermostats type answers , I emailed the source , Expedia customer service . Their reply ... ' Climate control is the proper heating and ventilation . It has a capacity to blow warm air or ventilate by letting in air at ambient temperature . '
It appears that the minimum connecting time according to the airlines is 40 or 45 minutes between Terminal A &amp; C , so you should be just fine . If you 're flying United , they run a transfer shuttle between Terminals A &amp; C inside security , so you do n't have to go through security again .
From the perspective of a traveler , there is almost zero difference . Both embassies and consulates are representative departments of a foreign country/government within another country . Technically , an Embassy is where an " Ambassador " is based . As there can only be one Ambassador for a specific country , there can only be ( at most ) one Embassy . As the Ambassador is the highest ranking representative of that foreign government , the Embassy is thus also deemed to be the highest level of representative location . A consulate is similar , but generally deemed to be a lower ranking due to the lack of an Ambassador . Consulates will generally be smaller - often being more like an office where the embassy often doubles as the actual residence for the Ambassador and/or some of his staff . Some countries may not have an embassy in a specific country , but may only have a consulate there . This will occur in the situation where there is no ambassador assigned to the country . From a travel perspective , both will generally provide the same services , and normally location will be far more relevant than the name . In some cases consulates may be slower to process requests as they may simply pass them onto the Embassy rather than doing them themselves . eg , the Australia consulate in San Francisco does not issue new passports - they are forwarded to the embassy in Washington DC , however all passport requests from people in the San Francisco area must be done via the local consulate and can not be sent directly to the embassy !
Buses are leaving from the Ortachala bus station 4 buses a week 20 Lari from Tbilisi to Baku Source : <URL> For times and confirmation of the service , I would still go over to the bus station . The <URL> also mentions buses from Marneuli ( 30km south of Tbilisi ) to Baku .
The best place for these calculations is the " Great Circle Mapper " website . <URL> To find the distance between two or more airports just enter them with dashes between them . eg , JFK-DFW or SFO-IAD-LHR You can do multiple trips at once by separating them with commas . JKF-DFW , SFO-IAD-LHR
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
As discussed in a <URL> , there are now two companies dedicated to that exact need : <URL> <URL> According to a <URL> : I used both . Onwardflights.com photoshops tickets , Flyonward.com books real tickets . Onwardflights is cheaper for a reason .
I was in SEA at the beginning of the year . Firstly , good on you for not flying south . It 's a very expensive and unnecessary flight for a trip that can very easily be made on land . When it comes to VIP buses in South East Asia , there is n't usually a big difference , but it does depend on the price . Sometimes a VIP bus may give you better seating , A/C , only other tourists/foreigners on the bus and/or it could be faster , as some of the normal sleepers pick up a lot of locals along the way who sit in the aisles . However , that being said , the VIP buses can be exactly the same . With the trip from Vientiance to Pakse I would probably just get the normal sleeper-bus unless there is a major price difference , which , in that case , probably means the normal is full of locals and will be a less comfortable ride .
The short answer is that Yes , the rules will remain the same as when you booked , regardless of what changes the airlines make after that date . The longer answer is a little more complex . First lets get a few term definitions out of the way . The " fare rules " for a ticket are a combination of two things - the rules that form of a part of the actual fare that you bought ( which normally spell out things like change fees ) , and the " Conditions Of Carriage " ( CoC ) that is the general terms that apply to all fares booked on a particular carrier ( Think of it as the " fine print " of your ticket and you 'll be pretty close to the mark ) . If you Google for the name of your airline and the term " CoC " you should find the relevant details . " Booking " a ticket is when you go in and , well , book the ticket ! However at the time of booking your ticket has n't actually been confirmed . At that stage , even if you 've handed over your hard-earned cash to pay for it , it 's not actually confirmed until it 's " ticketed " . " Ticketing " is what happens when the airline actually writes you a ticket . In years gone by this was the point that they actually handed you a physical ticket . Now days it 's the point where they give you a " ticket number " . At this point your reservation is said to be " ticketed " . Ticketing normally happened within minutes of you booking/paying for the flight , but it can take up to a few days or even weeks , depending on the situation ( especially if there are multiple airlines involved ) . Once your reservation is " ticketed " the actual fare is locked in , so even if the fare goes up the airline ca n't come to you and ask for more money for the flight itself . Whether they can change any fees associated with the fare - including things like baggage fees and change fees - depends what is written in the fare rules and in the CoC . There is an important distinction here between " booked " and " ticketed " - at least in theory the rules can change between these two stages , and it 's the rules that are in place when the ticket is " ticketed " that matters . In practice airlines will generally honor the rules/fares/etc at the time of booking , but there 's no guarantee that they will . Generally any change fees will be specifically written into the fare rules , including a specific amount for the fee . eg , in your example the fare rules themselves will state that the cancellation fee is $ 250 . As these rules are locked in at the time your reservation was ticketed , the airline can not change them after the fact for your booking . Some airlines , especially some low-cost carriers will NOT have the specific change fees within the fare rules , but will instead make reference to standard change fees . In this case it 's a little less clear what they can change as it will depend on the exact wording ( eg , if it says something like " at the time of the change " then it 's obviously different to " at the time the booking was made " ) . At the end of the day a lot of this comes down to the airline you 're flying . If you 're flying with one of the major carriers then their systems should automatically handle the change fees for you , at the correct amount for when your reservation was ticketed . If you 're flying a low-cost carrier , or a smaller regional airline , then you might have some more problems convincing them to charge you the lower amount - regardless of what is actually correct !
What Is the US Visa Waiver Program ? The <URL> allows travellers of certain nationalities to visit the US for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . This is a bilateral agreement , meaning that all countries participating in the VWP must allow US citizens to visit for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . To date <URL> : Andorra ( 1991 ) Australia ( 1996 ) Austria ( 1991 ) Belgium ( 1991 ) Brunei ( 1993 ) Chile ( 2014 ) Czech Republic ( 2008 ) Denmark ( 1991 ) Estonia ( 2008 ) Finland ( 1991 ) France ( 1989 ) Germany ( 1989 ) Greece ( 2010 ) Hungary ( 2008 ) Iceland ( 1991 ) Ireland ( 1995 ) Italy ( 1989 ) Japan ( 1988 ) Korea , Republic of ( 2008 ) Latvia ( 2008 ) Liechtenstein ( 1991 ) Lithuania ( 2008 ) Luxembourg ( 1991 ) Malta ( 2008 ) Monaco ( 1991 ) Netherlands ( 1989 ) New Zealand ( 1991 ) Norway ( 1991 ) Portugal ( 1999 ) San Marino ( 1991 ) Singapore ( 1999 ) Slovakia ( 2008 ) Slovenia ( 1997 ) Spain ( 1991 ) Sweden ( 1989 ) Switzerland ( 1989 ) Taiwan ( 2012 ) United Kingdom ** ( 1988 ) Passport Requirements Travellers wishing to benefit from the VWP must have a machine readable <URL> with a digital photograph printed on the document . All countries participating in the VWP must , and do , issue these passports to their citizens . If you do n't have an e-Passport to date , you 'll have to apply for one . What Is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? The <URL> is a fully automated process which allows visitors to verify if they are eligible to travel to the US under the VWP . The ESTA is not a visa . The ESTA is not a guarantee that visitors will be admitted entry to the US . Obtaining an ESTA simply means that the applicant meets <URL> . Namely : Who You Are : You are a citizen or eligible national of a Visa Waiver Program country . You are currently not in possession of a visitor 's visa . Your travel is for 90 days or less . You plan to travel to the United States for business or pleasure . You want to apply for a new authorization for one person or a group of applications for two or more persons . <URL> : Q : What is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? A : The Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) is an automated system that assists in determining eligibility to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and whether such travel poses any law enforcement or security risk . Upon completion of an ESTA application , a traveler is notified of his or her eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP . Who Needs to Apply for ESTA ? <URL> Travellers who normally would require a visa to enter the US should apply for a visa and not for an ESTA . Travellers who are eligible to visit the US under the VWP must obtain an ESTA prior to travelling to the US . This includes travellers who will only transit in the US on their way to somewhere else . Quoting from <URL> : Q : Who is required to apply for ESTA ? A : All eligible nationals or citizens of VWP countries who plan to travel to the United States for temporary business or pleasure under VWP are required to receive an authorization through ESTA prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or vessel . The term " United States " refers to the continental United States , Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands of the United States , and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands . Accompanied and unaccompanied children , regardless of age , are also required to obtain an independent ESTA approval . A third party , such as a relative or travel agent , is permitted to submit an ESTA application on behalf of a VWP traveler . Q : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require an ESTA if they are only transiting the United States en route to another country ? A : Yes . Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require either an ESTA or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the ESTA application , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination in the address lines under the heading " Address While In The United States . " <URL> An ESTA is required only for travellers seeking entry by air or sea . How Long Is my ESTA Valid For ? Once approved , an ESTA is valid for two years , and can be used multiple times , provided the reason for the multiple visits to the US remains within the scope of the VWP : business or tourism . If the applicant 's passport has less than two years validity left , the ESTA expires when the passport expires . My ESTA Expires Halfway into my Trip in the US <URL> It does not need to be valid for the entire duration of stay in the US . Therefore , there is no need for a traveller to apply for a new ESTA if their existing one expires whilst they are visiti
According to <URL> , there is no restriction on the nationality of the customer : Rules for the Youth-ticket Valid for Youth under 26 Valid for Widerøe and SAS flights within Scandinavia only , and Widerøe flights to/from the UK Not valid for children between 5-12 years of age travelling alone ( UM ) A reservation is confirmed when you get a booking reference on the screen or by e-mail A valid ID has to be shown on request before boarding the flight Only electronic tickets apply ( e-ticket ) No refund apart from when using the 24 hour cancellation rights . You may change your ticket for a fee of NOK 300 per person per flight ( each way ) ( DKK 400 from DK , SEK 500 from SE ) . You may change your flight upto 1 hour prior to your departure . You may only change your tickets within the same pricerange as your purchased tickets and between the same destinations . Tickets for youth has to be booked separately . You will need to make a separate booking for adults or children travelling together with a youth . When booking a youth and baby ( under 2 years ) : Book your youth ticket first and use the " Note to wideroe.no " on the payment page to tell us that you are travelling with a baby ( under 2 years ) . Limited number of seats available per flight
Cheapest is probably hitch hiking , but I am excluding that as an option . At least for the answer . Train : The fastest is probably the train . The fastest connection takes 3h40 min . It goes from Mexilhoeira Grande to Tunes . There you change and it goes directly to Lisbon , to Oriente . Oriente station is the closest train station to the airport . From there you get to the airport by subway ( 3 stations away ) . This should cost you around 27euro ( all transport tickets including the subway ) . I do n't know how far you are from the starting station . Mexilhoeira Grande is probably the closest train station to you but you 'll have to check . This train is at 6h24min in the morning . All the other trains take around 4h . You can get detailed information in <URL> for the train and in <URL> for the subway company . Bus : You can get the bus directly in Alvor . It also goes to Oriente in Lisbon . From there you get to the airport by subway ( 3 stations away ) . The total cost should be around 23euro ( all tickets including the subway ) . The total time on the bus is 4h15min You can get the bus schedule here <URL> The bus website is <URL> You can get additional information about the subway here <URL> Conclusion : Unless you have a good reason to go that early and spend less time travelling , I would probably go by bus . It 's more convenient ( no changes ) and it does n't take much more time . Additional information : When arriving to Oriente in alternative you can get a taxi . Depending on the number of persons traveling it can easily get cheaper and a bit faster than subway to arrive to the airport . Lisbon airport has 1 terminal for arrivals ( Terminal 1 ) and 2 terminals for departures ( Terminal 1 and Terminal 2 ) . The subway station in the airport is at Terminal 1 . There is a shuttle bus every 15 min to terminal 2 . The trip takes around 5 min . As a thumb rule low cost company 's depart from terminal 2 ( I would still advise you to check just in case ) . Additional resources : When you arrive to Oriente the station is easily recognizable for its architecture : <URL> and a portion of the train system.You can clearly find Oriente metro/train station and easily see the distance to the airport station ( aeroporto is the name of the station ) . You can easily see the distance from Oriente to the airport by car in <URL>
They made a <URL> in 2010 about this service . The advertised domain for this service , specially targeted at backpackers , does not exist anymore , so I would assume this service is discontinued . If you are willing to pay a bit more ( ¥ 2,700 ) , you can use the <URL> to bring you from Narita to Asakusa .
For a quick summary , there 's <URL> which covers quite a bit in a compact fashion . If you want the full details , your best bet is the <URL> . On the ground , the main differences are : Dedicated checkin lines ( outstations ) and checkin area ( Heathrow / JFK ) , with quicker queues than Club World More baggage ( 3 bags of up to 32kg each ! ) Escorts through security at the " more chaotic " outstations Nicer lounge almost everywhere , generally with self-pour champagne and some menu ordering of food Very nice lounges ( Concorde Club Room ) in Heathrow and JFK , which are basically a half decent restaurant ( menus , proper tables , service etc ) You can book into the Elemis travel spa in advance ( Heathrow/JFK ) Quick entry to the lounge after security ( Heathrow ) , avoiding the need to traipse through the shops to get to the lounge You can bring one guest into the lounge with you ( business it 's just yourself ) Nicer welcome drink on board YouFirst In the air : Larger seat Buddy seat , so two of you can sit together to talk/eat When you turn your seat into a bed , they 'll add a little extra mattress , and make it up into a bed with a duvet Pyjamas Dine when you want - you can eat any time , not just set meal times More attentive service ( better crew / passenger ratios ) Bigger AVOD screens " Loo with a view " - front toilet has a window that can be toggled between clear and opaque , so you can look out while flying You might find <URL> worth a read , it explains more on maximising your use / benefit of the above .
I have arrived in Sweden and can now answer my own question . Even though I had insurance from my employer , I did not have any supporting documents . So I bought a 60 day travel-cum-medical insurance for me and my wife . We crossed the border control without any problems . The border guard did not ask anything . To sum up , even though its mandatory to have an insurance when travelling to EU , in practice border guards rarely ask for proof . Anyway , having insurance is always a good idea . If not long term , choose a limited period insurance which will cover you till you get settled in the new place .
The one he is probably referring to was actually presented by Venezuela - <URL> of <URL> , liberator of Bolivia , Panama , Colombia , Ecuador , Peru , and Venezuela from Spanish rule . This statue is at the entrance to Central Park at the north end of Sixth Avenue - The Avenue Of The Americas - so it fits the context of the story well . Photo from nycgovparks.org
First Class on the TGV means a wider seat , power sockets , less people ( so a generally quieter environment ) , and that 's about it . Standard Premier on the Eurostar is pretty much the same , except you get a small cold dish and a cold alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage . The difference in price is more due to demand than the actual cost of the service . Whether it 's worth it is up to you . The choice is not between Eurostar Standard Premier and TGV First Class , the choice is between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier . If the price difference between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier is small enough to you that it 's worth it to spend those two hours with more space , a power socket , and a small free meal , then go for it . note : carriages 5 &amp; 14 have power sockets on the Eurostar , so if you book a seat in one of those and buy yourself a nice meal from M&amp;S to take on the train , the difference comes down only to the difference in seat size .
Wikipedia gives the reason <URL> . The Secretary of State may by order made by statutory instrument make provision for requiring passengers disembarking or embarking in the United Kingdom , or any class of such passengers , to produce to an immigration officer , if so required , landing or embarkation cards in such form as the Secretary of State may direct , and for requiring the owners or agents of ships and aircraft to supply such cards to those passengers . Hence the reason at the moment is that it 's the law , though the form of providing the information could be modified by statutory instrument at any time . The US did something similar with their I-94 forms a few years ago and made them all electronic . However , you still have to fill in a customs form when entering the US so it makes little difference unless you have Global Entry or use the mobile passport application . You can read the whole act <URL> and the specific section to do with landing cards <URL> . The purpose of them was explained in a freedom of information <URL> : Landing cards fulfil the following functions : to provide statistical information for use both inside and outside the department ; to provide a record of the arrival in the UK of persons subject to control ; and To enable the immigration officer to record what a passenger has said to him/her on his arrival , the circumstances which led to the granting of leave to enter and any information which may be useful to caseworkers if the passenger subsequently applies for an extension of stay .
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
On the way to France , the <URL> ( both day and night ) has three ( official ) stops , Moûtiers , Aime-la-Plagne and Bourg-St-Maurice . On the return , it has only two stops , Moûtiers and Bourg-St-Maurice . At both of these stations , there is a special platform that can be fenced off from the rest of the French rail network . There is also a special waiting room area , which contains security , French " exit " immigration staff , and UK " entry " immigration staff . On Ski train Saturdays , these facilities are used . The rest of the time , the waiting room is closed off , and the platform fences are opened so they can be used for regular French trains . On Ski train Saturdays , UK immigration officers have to be brought in , extra security staff must be hired to run the security checks , French immigration staff have to be brought in to run the exit checks , security staff have to close all the fences/gates around the train + patrol to make sure no-one sneaks in , and other related border security activities are followed . It 's a large amount of work , and is n't cheap either ! In addition , it requires dedicated platforms that can be secured , dedicated areas to hold the security screening and immigration checks . For the other services , including the recently launched Lyon/Marseille one , there is n't the space or the money or the staff for these special dedicated facilities . As such , they run as domestic French services as fair as Lille , then all the checks are done there . I believe that Lille is used because it has the size and spare capacity , and is on the high speed line . It 'd be an epic faff to get a train from the south of France into Gare du Nord to do the checks there , and it 'd be a big detour to head via Brussels . Calais is only a small station , so there is n't really the staff or space to handle a whole train load there . The upcoming Amsterdam/Rotterdam services will also have their security + immigration done at Lille , rather than Brussels . Eurostar and SNCF have recently funded some upgrades to Lille Europe station , to increase the capacity of the security and immigration checks , along with the waiting area , in part to handle the additional load that these new services generate . At this time , it looks like all the " original " services ( such as the Disney train and the Ski train ) will retain their special security + immigration checks at their origin stations . Everything else looks to be set for the " Lille Shuffle "
end question
start question
How can I cross the English channel with a car ?
The shortest crossings are the quickest and cheapest . So Dover/Calais is very popular . And the EuroTunnel train from Folkstone/Calais is effectively the same , but quicker ( 35 minutes compared with 90 minutes ) and more expensive . However you then have to factor in the drive to and from the crossing points , which costs both time and money . Hence a longer more expensive crossing may suit you better . For example the 10 hour crossing from Rotterdam to Hull is probably more time-effective than driving from Rotterdam to Calais and Dover to Hull . Other factors : Frequency of crossing . If there are only 3 ferries a day , then missing the ferry is a big deal . There are often 3 trains an hour , so no big deal to miss one , and indeed one often can get on an earlier train . Seasickness : some of these crossings ( North Sea , Bay of Biscay ) can be rough . 10 hours on a heaving ship may not suit you . Hence we do usually take the train . Some folks treat the sea voyage as part of the holiday ; it can be fun . Some longer crossings are over-night , and the ferry will have the possibility to book a cabin for a few 10s of pounds so with any luck you can get a good night 's sleep . For folks with limited holiday time this saving of a night can be a boon .
They want to make the stickers difficult to remove to discourage moving them from vehicle to vehicle . It is a global frustration . There are many blog posts about removing parking decals , inspection cards , and other stickers from the inside of a car windshield , including the question <URL> at Mechanics.SE . The accepted ( and solitary ) answer there states For vinyl stickers I 've had good experience warming them up with a hairdryer to soften the glue and then slowly peeling them off . I 've also managed to get them off a windshield using a scraper ... To remove the glue residue I 've had good experience with both WD40 ( which you can also use to soften paper stickers ) and tar spot remover For myself , living in a place where annual registration and vehicle inspection must be displayed in the windshield and changed annually , this seems excessive ; at the very least , I 'd need to purchase quite a few extension cords to run a hairdryer out to my car . Method 1 : Scraper The razor blade is a commodity item on this side of the pond , and can be purchased in any home improvement store and even many supermarkets and pharmacies . The metal is softer than the windshield glass , and so it is difficult to scratch the glass if you are careful . Especially for vinyl stickers , the adhesive may be loosened with heat . Running the car 's defroster for several minutes helps . Use the razor blade to loosen a corner of the sticker and work it through the adhesive with very short strokes . Once you have pried up enough of it to grip with one hand , peel it back with slight pressure and continue using the razor blade to pry up the remainder of it . When all of the sticker is removed , I use the same blade to scrape off the remaining adhesive . If the remaining film is very thin , sometimes it is more easily rubbed off with a washcloth and ammonia-based cleaner or isopropyl alcohol . This is the only method I use as I do not trust myself not to drip a solvent onto the dashboard or elsewhere in the car . Method 2 : Solvent and scraper The above can be a tedious process , and you can speed it up mightily applying a solvent with a washcloth to dissolve the adhesive . Which kind is most effective depends on the kind of adhesive , naturally , but commonly suggested solvents include Acetone ( found in nail polish remover ) Degreasing products containing citrus oils ( e.g. " Goo Gone " ) Hairspray Hot water Strong vinegar WD-40 or another penetrating oil Baby oil or vegetable oil Peanut butter These can be messy , and some of them are highly corrosive/irritating . A single drip onto the dashboard may discolor or damage it permanently , and fumes may linger long after the removal process is completed . Moreover , you may accidentally get some on stickers that need to stay put . Use at your own risk , in a well-ventilated area , using gloves or other appropriate safety gear . With the weaker solvents , it may take some time to dissolve enough adhesive to be useful ; for peanut butter , some say to soak overnight . Once you are ready , a small amount of dishwashing liquid or another light detergent may help break up the oil-imbued adhesive . Ideally , you might be able to peel off the sticker without scraping , though you may still find a razor blade helpful to peel up a corner to get started . 3 . Method 3 : Do n't get stickered One " hack " for self-applied stickers is to <URL> ; apply the sticker to it , then apply the protector to the windshield . You can trim off the excess , and since the protector is transparent , you should be all right with the authorities -- or at least escape official notice . Being designed to be semi-permanent , the adhesive on the protector is strong but not impossible to remove . I can not say as to whether some jurisdictions might require windshield stickers to be " permanently affixed " or some such , and whether this would pass muster . And of course , there are cases where the sticker must be applied by the inspector/official/mechanic directly , in which case you have no choice . But in cases where you 're acquiring and applying the sticker yourself , this would seem convenient and inexpensive . There are some commercial products ( " sticker shields " ) that may be slightly cheaper , but these days a smartphone screen protector is very easy to find .
A website of <URL> , marked on a map for your convenience ! :) ( the red markers have a low fee ; the green markers are free )
Your best bet is to sign up to a crew-finding website like <URL> . A friend who cycled from London to New Zealand did this for the ocean parts - hung out in port and used the site . What was observed is that there are different levels of opportunities . Some berths require that you have licenses or sailing experience , or a particular skill ( eg cooking ) , while others will take anyone . The alternative , if you have the time ( like she did ) is to hang out by the docks and ask people - even if they are n't taking anyone , they may have heard of someone who is . Often it 's just spur of the moment opportunity .
Updated As of May 2014 , it works in both directions now ! As this edit demonstrates , from somewhere under the channel :) Yes , you can ! But currently until very recently , it was only in one direction ... As detailed in <URL> , Eurotunnel ( who own the tunnel ) have fitted leaky feeder aerials , base stations and repeaters to both tunnels , and it only took 10 months to kit out . Eurotunnel are then leasing them out to mobile operators . The North Tunnel , which is normally used for trains travelling from France to England , has been assigned as " France " and leased to French mobile phone operators . Service in this tunnel went live in July 2012 , and you can now use your phone to call / text / surf whilst travelling from France to England . It 's using French mobile operators though , so UK phones will be charged roaming just as they do in France . The South Tunnel , which is normally used for trains going from England to France , has been designated " England " as is to be leased to English mobile phone operators . However , despite being ready in 2012 , it took until <URL> , and as such mobile signal has only just started working in the UK to France direction . ( Quite why the UK networks were so useless is a different question ... ) The service from France - > UK , works well though , I can personally confirm it from earlier ! If you 're on the phone as you enter the tunnel , your call will continue uninterrupted , and work fine for the whole tunnel . However , just before leaving the tunnel your call will drop , as that 's where the French network ends . A few tens of seconds later your phone will sign-on with the UK network , and you 'll be able to call again . The service the other way , from the UK to France , still ( May 2014 ) seems to be suffering some teething problems . Mobiles do work , with the odd drop-out , but data is pretty flaky and suffers really slow speeds + long ping times . It 's possible they 'll sort that later , but for now internet largely only works in the " French tunnel " . ( I have managed to post to Travel.SE from the English tunnel , but it took most of the trip for the post to go through ! ) AFAICT , there is no mobile service offered in the third tunnel , the service tunnel , only the emergency radios work there .
This year I travelled from London to Mongolia overland . There was a period from leaving Saint Petersburg , Russia to reaching Khiva , Uzbekistan - where for 10 days , I did not hear any native English . Two people had broken English , that was it . So no , it will NOT get you by wherever you are in the world . However , you can still get by - with hand signals , learning a few key words , and even resorting to <URL> to make yourself understood . Generally in big cities in most countries there will be someone around who speaks a few words of English , at the least . Not always . Even at embassies in some Central Asian countries , I had no English spoken to me . Going to the hospital at Iguazu Falls - arguably one of the top tourist spots in South America , and there was zero English - that was lots of fun with my limited dictionary and wild gesticulating ! So to answer your question about whether you can get around with just English - no , English will not get you everywhere , but there are other forms of expression/communication that will . As for languages , Spanish ( South America ) , French ( lots of the world and Africa ) , Russian for all ex-Soviet states , and Mandarin , and you 've got a ton of the world covered .
Portland has an <URL> , especially the light rail and buses , that will serve you well for getting around Portland itself . If that 's the area that you intent to stay within then you can certainly get by without a car - although you still may find having one to be more convenient depending on exactly where you 're planning to go . However for me personally , no trip to Portland would be complete without a trip along the <URL> , and for that you 're going to need a car . If you can manage 2 days in the area I 'd suggest that you could easily do without a car for one day , and then rent a car for the day to do the trip along the Gorge .
Yes , most Icelandic people speak very good English , you will be fine . Their language is indeed called Icelandic , and is fascinating in regards to its history . From wikipedia : The oldest preserved texts in Icelandic were written around 1100AD . The majority of these texts are poems or laws , preserved orally for generations before being written down . The most famous of these , written in Iceland from the 12th century onward , are without doubt the Icelandic Sagas , the historical writings of Snorri Sturluson ; and eddaic poems . With regards to learning a few Icelandic phrases , as with anywhere , people appreciate non-native speakers making the effort . " Takk " for " Thanks " is an easy one for starters . Some of the pronunciation is nigh on impossible for English speakers who have n't been exposed to it before , so do n't think you 'll attain even a basic grasp without a lot of study ! Their <URL> scheme is charming , and you may also be interested in the <URL> and how people derive their <URL> . " Z " was removed from the alphabet in 1973 .
If it 's a VISA debit cart , then it can be used as a credit card anywhere VISA is accepted , so you should n't have to worry about it . Note that many rental companies will want to charge the deposit to the card - most likely in the area of $ 200-300 . This money will be unavailable to you if the charge is on the debit card . While it 's easy to determine whether the card is a debit or credit card ( often , but not always ) by the card number alone , the rental company wo n't care . All they need is to be able to charge the amount owed to them . On a separate note , I strongly advise that you think carefully whether you really need a car in Paris . Paris is one of the worst cities in Europe to drive in . Updated based on the comment : If you want to rent the car to go to Belgium , you may need to inform the rental company that you will be taking the car out of the country - which in turn may make the cost of rental more expensive . You will likely be breaking the terms of your rental contract if you take the car across the country border without notifying the rental company .
Driving from Lusaka to Livingstone is straightforward . Most of the road is in reasonable enough shape , though last time I did the journey ( about 4 years ago ) , there were still a few bad , potholed filled , stretches . But , even a regular ( non 4x4 ) car will be able to do the journey fairly easily . There are several very reasonable hotels and guesthouses on the Zambian side , so for that you will not have to cross the border . And unless Victoria Falls ( town ) has gone through an economic upturn , the nicer restaurants ( and South African chains ) are on the Zambian side . You do not need a visa for the other country ( Zimbabwe if you 're coming from Zambia ) to get onto the bridge that connects the two . But , if you 're continuing onwards , whether you can get a visa at the border depends on the passport you hold . Crossing from one to the other , though , is straightforward . But in your case , you will need a day visa for Zimbabwe and a multiple entry visa for Zambia . For many nationalities , these can simple be obtained at both borders . It 's said that the Zimbabwean side of the falls is prettier . In my opinion , this might indeed be true , but only marginally so . There 's no real need to check out the falls from the other side if you think it 's a bit much of a hassle .
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
Assuming we 're talking about a watch-style or pedometer-style fitness tracker , it should be no problem . Just take it off and put it through the X-ray , like you would with any other electronic device . In rare cases , it 's possible the security agents will ask you to demonstrate that it 's functioning , at which point you could show them the LCD display , but it 's pretty unlikely they 'll ask . Source : personal experience . Also the TSA 's <URL> feature says a Fitbit is fine .
It depends on who you 're hiring from . If you 're hiring from a small , local US hire car company , you might well be out of luck . If you 're hiring from somewhere big , they should be able to help Avis UK have a handy page on <URL> , which covers what you can do depending on where in the world you are . They say that for Avis US locations : Renting from Avis in the USA When renting in the USA , you can rent a car with your photo card licence only , or with your paper counterpart licence and your passport . If you have neither part you can not hire a car from an Avis office in the USA Hopefully other larger companies will be able to do the same . Somewhere small is most likely to only be used to photocard driving licences , so may well not be able to satisfy themselves and their insurers with only the paper part and a passport . In the UK , you can ( normally for an extra fee ) have the hire car company phone up the DVLA , and get confirmation from the DVLA that you hold a valid licence without too many points . That only works when the DVLA are open , and requires that the hire car company know about how to check with the DVLA . Maybe you could find a US hire car office that knew about how to do it , but it 's not that likely , and you 'd struggle with the time overlap of when the hire car place is open and when the DVLA call centre is open . You could always speak to the head office of the hire car place to see if they can set this up in advance though , you might get lucky but do n't count on it !
After living in the USA for over 10 years , I moved to Europe . I did consider bringing my car from the USA to Europe , however later rejected that idea . Yet in the process I did look into various options . There are several shipping companies that will ship vehicles across the Atlantic , usually inside containers on a ship , but for the right price they 'll do air shipments too . Once the vehicle is in Europe , the same rules apply as for any other vehicles registered outside the country : you must re-register it in your the country of residence within a predefined period of time ( usually 1 year , but it varies by country ) , do required adjustments if necessary ( e.g. rules on turn signals being yellow/amber vs. allowed red colour in the USA ) , etc. . The most important one is that the vehicle is not allowed to remain within the country for over that predefined period without leaving the country or being re-registered there . Usually , it 's the diplomatic staff that bring their cars over from USA to Europe , as the department of foreign affairs ( read - taxpayers ) is paying for moving all their stuff across . However anybody can do it , really . So , the simple answer is - there are shipping companies that will do this for you . The cost is usually in the area of about $ 2000 for a simple car and growing for something bigger or more expensive ( because of higher insurance premiums ) . In addition to that , vehicles registered to US army will have plates of the home base location - and these vehicles would have also been shipped to Europe , but paid for by the Army ( read - taxpayers again ) .
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
<URL> is rather helpful and includes these Usually , Rent-A-Wreck requires renters to be at least 18 years old , but some locations may require a minimum age of 25 years . For consumers under 25 , a credit card is usually required for payment and the rental rate may be higher . Please contact the individual Rent-A-Wreck car rental location for their specific age policies . Many , but not all , Rent-A-Wreck locations will rent to cash customers . Most locations will require that cash customers fill out a cash qualification questionnaire at the rental location during normal business hours so that it may be verified . A cash deposit will be required if a credit card is not presented for payment . If you are interested in renting a car using cash , please contact the individual location for their specific prices and policies . Debit cards or ' check cards ' carrying the logo of a major bank processor like VISA or MasterCard that are linked to checking accounts are also accepted as a form of payment at most Rent-A-Wreck locations . In Canada they redirect to <URL> which have many , many Toronto locations . Good luck !
Apparently , it 's complicated . The safest border crossing is Puerto Carreño to Puerto Ayacucho by boat . Before you go in Colombia , do these : DIAN ( Colombian customs department ) to make sure all your car papers are in order . Venezuelan consulate to get a form with all the current requisites for crossing your vehicle ( <URL> ) . Later [ the site which I am referencing from ] learned that we needed two additional papers : a Venezuelan third-party insurance ( easy to obtain , more on that below ) and an invoice of the purchase of our car . Immigration to stamp your passport . SIJIN department of Police , to get a VIN rub of your car 's chassis number . Then buy a Venezuelan insurance and go to SENIAT , Venzuelan customs . Once done , boat over , then 100 kms to Puerto Ayacucho to get your passport stamped ( three months for Europeans , free of charge ) . Reference from <URL>
You ca n't guarantee it . However , you can increase your chances by showing up earlier , before they start to run out of cars ( at midnight most of the cars are gone and wo n't be back until tomorrow afternoon and evening ) , and by being a frequent renter with them . Also , try asking . I have had rental agencies give me the " good news " that I was getting a bigger car and saying " please , I do n't want a bigger car , they are hard to park , I am by myself and do n't need extra room " has restored my smaller car to me . It would also help not to call what they are doing a con . Many people are happy to get a big car for the price of a small one . They always give you something that normally costs more . If you do n't happen to like it , I get it , I feel the same , but it 's not a trick or a con . You and the clerk want the same thing - for you to leave happy and recommending them to others . Work with the clerk not against them . They do n't know you do n't want the upgrade . Most people do . And if all else fails and you have n't prepaid , pull out your cell phone while standing at the counter and start calling other places to see if they have the car you want . Be clear you do n't mean " or similar " you want that exact model . If they do , off you go and try to get it . If they do n't , well at least you 'll be making an informed decision about whether to accept the upgrade .
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
end question
start question
Is it legal to bring Jamón Ibérico from Spain into the United States ?
Given the <URL> and the previous experience my wife had past December coming back from Barcelona it is a no . The flights from Spain and especially from Barcelona are almost universally go through agriculture control at US customs ( at least the case in JFK and Newark ) specifically looking for Jamon . The only possible exception might be vacuum packed sliced Jamon but again from my wife 's experience with agriculture control in Newark I would say it may be a 50/50 proposition at best .
You do n't need a passport to fly within the US . As long as you have your driver 's license , that is enough to get you through TSA check points . It 's when you travel outside the US that you will need your passport . Here 's a list of acceptable IDs from the official TSA website : <URL>
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
I 've done this all over the world without incident . Just make sure your devices are ok with the voltage coming from the wall , and that you 're not throwing away grounding protection by using a two prong adapter instead of one with a grounding strip . To check voltages , I use <URL> . In your case Spain and the UK are on the same voltage , so that 's not an issue . This kind of adapter for Spain : is not grounded . If you use this to plug in the power strip , the devices wo n't have grounding ( earthing ) protection . This kind of adapter for Spain : is grounded ( though you need a different face on it for a UK plug instead of a US one . ) These larger ones are better for plugging in a power strip .
I guess while pens in theory could be used to cause pain , as could some types of shoes or household keys , and they 're allowed . I assure you , you 'll have zero problem taking an ordinary ballpoint or ink pen ( or pencil ) on a flight - unless you have some weird pen in the shape of a dagger or something :)
It has always been illegal and people have been arrested for smoking it in the open . I always love the faces of the tourists being arrested at Schiphol airport or in front of the Central station in Amsterdam for smoking weed . It is a global misconception that in Amsterdam it is as free as smoking cigarettes on the street . The principle has always been , what is called " Gedogen " , which means that it is tolerated as long as you do n't use it in the open and do n't create annoyances . It is the Dutch way of dealing with social problems . It is similar to the so-called " afwerkplekken " for street prostitution . These are designated area 's where street prostitution is tolerated . When ever there is a social problem that is hard to eradicate , the Dutch approach is encapsulate it in known zones , relieving other area 's from problems related to that social problem . In the seventies the Dutch government introduced so called " coffeeshops " , which are designated establishments where cannabis use is tolerated . Again recognize the difference between tolerated and allowed . What has changed recently is the legal status for these coffeeshops . They are now only allowed as a member-only organization for local residents . To get access to a coffeeshop you need to register as a member providing proof you live in the same city . The change of this regulation was guided by the pressure from Belgium and Germany . Border cities like Maastricht , Roosendaal , Terneuzen were like magnets to weed smokers from France , Belgium and Germany , causing problems in those cities and the surrounding countries . This was the reason behind introducing the member-only requirement for coffeeshops . This is also why the weed-pass as it is informally called was first introduced in the border regions and later imposed on other cities like Amsterdam . As Mark already said , again some cities like Amsterdam chose not to spent resources on enforcing this . Border cities did introduce the legislation to require the member-only status of coffeeshops , with the effect that most coffeeshops did close .
According to Wikipedia , <URL> Attempting to conceal it by disassembling will not change the legal status , but will leave you open for further legal issues . The Canadian regulations are similar , but obviously not that relevant if you ca n't first take is to Sweden .
There 's an Airbud interpretation of laws that goes along the lines of " There 's no rule that says a dog ca n't play football " . Or in <URL> : There 's a great Canadian article on it on <URL> , where it comes down to being ' murky ' . They point out the NYC rule , as well as when a landlord says you ca n't let your place out , or finds out you are and can kick you out . In the end one of their renters gave a quote which sums it up : " To have a great experience , sometimes you have to take a chance , " says Clarke . " Staying at a Marriott is like a bank account : low return , but your investment is safe . Airbnb is like a risky stock : Things can go wrong , but you can also win big . " Of course , that 's as a guest . Fortunately , if you 're a guest , you 're probably not the one in hot water if it is n't allowed . It 'd be like a regular hotel forgetting to renew their license . However , consider ... As someone letting out their room , it depends if you own it . If you yourself are a renter , one would want to check your letting agreement with your landlord . Mine have had specific clauses saying guests staying longer than x days need to be verified , and no subletting is allowed . If you really wanted to be sure , check with your landlord as well . He 's getting his rent , and as long as you 're not wrecking , many would be ok with it . Some obviously wo n't , however . And that 's where the problem lies . IF they do get into trouble or it turns out to be banned by their lease , you may find yourself getting turfed out , or turn up in town only to find you have nowhere to stay . However , the majority of people are reporting great experiences with it . I 'll be using it when I visit Australia in November .
I worked in a variety of hotels and hostels when I was a young backpacker and student . The simple answer is that it comes down to availability of rooms ( or beds if you 're staying in a dormitory ) . Most hotels will post a check-in time of around noon to give them time to get at least some some rooms ready for the earlier arrivals , but even that should never be considered as a guarantee of getting into a room . A typical hotel has just enough housekeeping staff to turn over all rooms in a day . Typically the rooms which are checking out ( a full turnaround ) are done first , followed by rooms which are staying ( more or less just a tidy up ) . So if everyone turned up to check in at exactly 12 noon , then most of you would be waiting . There is nothing " wrong " with arriving early , that is before the stated check in time , it 's just that the chance of a room of the type you booked being ready diminishes the earlier in the day you arrive . The worst that will happen is that they will usually offer to store your luggage for you while go you about your business . Reception will usually give you some indication of when your room will be ready . If you really need your room ( e.g. to shower and change ) , just explain your need and they may be willing to swap you to a room which will be ready sooner , or possibly even offer you the use of a room which is vacant but not yet made up specifically for the purpose of using the bathroom . It never hurts to ask politely and see what they can do for you .
I 've been to all those places except for Shymkent last summer ( 2014 ) . But I did not follow your suggested route and walked and hitched a lot but also used some public transport options . Even though there are some bigger buses on some of the more popular routes , you will mostly rely on small buses and shared taxis . Even between Osh and Bishkek , the two biggest cities in Kyrgyzstan there are no regular bus services . Most people take a shared taxi or fly . On the other hand , the main bus station in Bishkek has lots of regular buses to Almaty and Shymkent in Kazakhstan and many other places . Arslanbob is a small place in the hills , you wont find a bus from Osh and even finding a shared taxi will be difficult . You can take a private taxi . You can also take a shared taxi from Osh to Jalal-Abad and then another one or a mini-bus to Arslanbob . In Arslanbob do n't expect to find a taxi to Bishkek or Song Kul , take a mini bus back to Jalal-Abad . I 'm not sure how easy it is to reach Song Kul from the south , most people come from Bishkek . To get to the lake itself , there is no public transport , your have to arrange a tourist bus or taxi in Kochkor . Many people get on horse . In general you find out where the buses/taxis are leaving from and go there in the morning . For shared taxis you always have to hackle about the price , this works even if you do n't speak Russian . You never book anything in advance . The car or SUV leaves when its full , unless you pay for all seats ( which can be more than you think ) . Tashkent has some overland buses , but even a popular route like the one to Samarkand is mostly done by shared taxi . I do n't know about the route from Tashkent to Osh , as I traveled through Tajikistan . So traveling in that region is rather adventurous , knowing some Russian helps a lot but I managed without . Unless you want to go to a really remote area , there are ways to get there , that 's how the locals travel . The main roads in Kyrgyzstan are actually in a pretty good condition , but because it is a very mountainous country , travel takes time . I ca n't give any specific costs and time estimates , but it 's all reasonable . Remember , this is how the locals travel and they are much poorer than you and me .
I lived in that zone for three years ( 1993-1996 ) , and I have traveled in it several times more recently , but this is the first I have ever heard of its existence . How did you even become aware of it ? I lived in Lexington , VA , and my travels have been mainly on the Blue Ridge and in the Shenandoah and James River valleys . I ca n't speak for areas closer to the telescopes , but in the vast majority of the zone , you will find no impact whatsoever .
I called consulate of country B and talked with the visa officer . He told me since you are visiting country A for a conference that is your main destination even though you spend more time in B . He said the rules say : 1 . main destination 2 . if no , longest stay 3 . if no , entrance . He told me that he is reluctant to issue me a visa and asked me to contact country A 's consulate , if they do n't take the application he will review it . I called consulate of country A. First the operator told me to go to B then after telling her that I am going to A for business ( conference ) , she told me that I should apply at theirs ( A ) . Looks like the key thing here is the conference not where I spend most of my time .
Daytime , there are two very good options : <URL> bus 615 is easy and affordable . The trip to central railway station costs 5 $ and takes some 35 mins . The bus runs every 10-20 minutes between 06:30 and 00:30 on weekdays ( Sat 07:00 -1:00 , Sun 06:05 -00:30 ) . ( From city to airport , first departure is 05:10 and last 22:45 . ) At the airport it leaves from T1 ( platform 2 ) stopping at T2 ( platform 21 ) too , and in city centre from platform 3 on <URL> . The fare covers transfer to other HSL services -- buses , trams , metro , <URL> ferry -- within 80 mins . Check <URL> or the <URL> for more info . The <URL> ( <URL> ) takes you a bit faster ( average time 30 mins according to the company ) from airport to central railway station . The fare is 6.30 $ , and it runs ( mostly ) every 20 minutes , between 05:45 and 01:10 daily . ( From city to airport between 05:00 and 24:00 ) . This bus leaves from T2 ( platform 10 ) and stops at T1 ( platform 1 ) ; in city centre , it leaves from <URL> , platform 30 , on the other side of the central railway station . The Finnair bus also provides free WiFi ( details provided on the information display on the bus ) , which can be handy for travelers . Late at night &amp; early in the morning ( i.e. , when 615 is not running ) , HSL bus <URL> is your friend . It runs every half hour mostly , with last departure from airport at 03:55 and from city at 03:10 ( Fri &amp; Sat nights 03:40 ) . But first departure is at 05:00 ( from city 04:10 ) , so essentially the whole night is covered , all week ! Night fare ( charged between 02:00 -04:30 ) is 7 $ . The 620 departs from the exact same platforms as 615 , and estimated travel time is 40-45 minutes . ( The 620 also has departures during daytime ; the main difference compared to 615 is slightly longer travel time . ) A taxi is always a convenient option , of course , but it 's far from cheap ( around 35-40 $ ) . There are some fixed rate / shared taxi services too that are slightly cheaper ( e.g. <URL> , " from 19.50 $ " ) . Edit : updated for 2015 . Note that slightly different 615 and 620 timetables may apply in the middle of the summer . Check the <URL> to make sure , as it always has up-to-date info on the HSL services . Rail connection starting 1 July 2015 The new <URL> opens this summer , bringing a rail connection between the airport and central Helsinki . It wo n't really be faster than the current buses , but it 's probably easier , more straightforward for the occasional visitor . As you can see in the schematic map below , you can take either I train or P train no matter which way you 're going . To optimise travel time ( save 5 minutes ) , choose I train from Helsinki and P train from airport . Both trains will run every 10 minutes in the daytime . Travel times : Helsinki city to airport : I train 27 minutes ; P train 32 minutes Airport to Helsinki city : P train 27 minutes ; I train 32 minutes ( NB : at least some bus of the existing bus lines will remain in operation and may be valid options even after the Ring Line opens . I 'll update this with more details later . )
In Spain apple juice is not as common as some other juices , in particular cranberry juice is also hard to find . Spain has always been a big producer of oranges , and the provinces of Valencia and Seville in the south of the country are particularly renowned for the fruit . <URL> <URL> So it 's no surprise that orange juice is common and popular . You will find that most apple orchards tend to be in the north in provinces like Asturias , and most apples that are not produced for eating will be made into cider . <URL> However there is one location that will I 'm sure please you that you can almost always find apple juice in Spain . <URL>
It sounds like you are referring to kilishi , which is very thin strips of meat spiced and sun-dried . If it were from another country , the answer would be maybe . Commercially packaged shelf-stable beef products are <URL> . However , there are exceptions : It will be very difficult to bring any sort of meat from Nigeria into the US because of the incidence of foot and mouth disease in that country . The US does not allow import of meats from countries having issues with foot and mouth disease or mad cow disease ( BSE ) at all . As a general rule - if goods are cooked and in shelf-stable ( does not require refrigeration ) packaging such as cans or other hermetically sealed containers AND they are not from a country affected with various diseases such as Avian influenza , Mad Cow disease , Swine Fever , Exotic Newcastle Disease , etc. , they may be admissible . In any event , if you are bringing food into the US you must declare it . If you are looking for something similar , try biltong . It is usually sliced thicker than kilishi , though . And you can make either at home ; many recipes can be found online for both kilishi and biltong .
Avoid the use of the word " fanny " , as it is slang for , ah , a woman 's front bits . Be very careful when referring to your fanny pack ! Also , if an attractive member of the opposite sex asks you if you have a " rubber " , double-check to make sure there are n't any chalkboards around because you 're probably being asked for an eraser .
In short , Putin 's wrong , or at least oversimplifying drastically . Airport transit areas are exempted from immigration regulations , but they are very much the country 's property , under its authority and jurisdiction . As a simple example , if you 're transiting via an airport and are caught carrying contraband there , you 'll be punished under the transit country 's legislation , as <URL> have found out . All that said , Snowden 's definitely a legal edge case . For example , you can only deport someone who has entered the country ( legally or illegally ) , which Snowden has not . Russia could easily extradite Snowden if they wanted to , since Snowden is now subject to Russian jurisdiction and espionage is a crime in both Russia and the US , but Russia and the US do not have an extradition agreement and , more to the point , Russia has no interest in doing so . Russia could always kick him out under some legal pretense ( loitering ? vagrancy ? ) , but they 'd have to find somebody to take him and issue him travel documents first ! As an ordinary traveller , though , I would n't lose too much sleep over this . It 's very unusual to end up in this position , since the vast majority of people not accepted by their final destination are either refused boarding by the airline at the origin , or deported back to where they came from once they have tried to enter the country . It takes an extraordinary run of bad luck , like <URL> , to end up a refugee in the transit area .
Here how it goes : After you pass the passport control desk , you will pass the customs desk . The guys at the customs desk will scan the luggage , if they found books or CDs they might ask you to show them . If they do not like them from the cover , they will take the books and/or CDs and give you a slip . The books will be sent to a department where they will check the books/CDs and you can visit them few days later to collect them if allowed , or to be informed that they are confiscated if they were n't allowed . No more or less , no charges or any other things will be taken against you . Sometimes you will have to pay a fine , usually the fine is 500 SAR ( $ 134 USD ) per prohibited item , but I guess this only applies to CDs/DVDs and rarely happens . If you are not Saudi most likely they will pass on the fine because you do not know the local rules . Regarding anti-religious books , they are not allowed . But again , only if they notice and are in the mood to apply the rules . Regarding Da Vinci code , I bought a copy of this book in Saudi Arabia so I guess it is allowed . In 2000 or 2001 , I brought 3 " inappropriate " CDs , the customs checked them and I had to pay 1500 SAR and they were confiscated . I guess I paid because I was stupid and I argued and shouted . Otherwise they would have just taken them and let me go without paying . Remember , the above is applied to books and CDs/DVDs , alcohol is not allowed and will be confiscated right away . Drugs smuggling is a serious problem and is punishable by the local laws . Last thing , inside Saudi Arabia , no one will care about the book in your hands :)
Yes , and <URL> . They 're not liquids , flammable or on any of the TSA unapproved lists , so you 're totally fine to take them . However , remember they 're meant to be stored at room temperature as they are still medical devices you do n't want to take risks with damaging them . Do n't store them with sharp items in your carry-on ( even pens etc ) . If your laptop or phone gets really warm , it 's best not to have them side-by-side either . However , there are also stories of travellers being detained <URL> , where they were accused of being working girls ( ! ) , so ... all things considered , it might be better to just get some at the destination .
There are no international rules that forbid that . There are numerous stories on the Internet about people whose driver 's licenses were conficsated in EU countries . Here is an <URL> . It says : If you break French driving laws you can also have your UK driving licence confiscated by French Police . Similarly , in many countries , if a person is arrested , he or she might be asked to surrender his or her passport to get bail . Summary : I have no idea if it is legal for police to hold your driver 's license in Mexico . But it does n't violate any international laws .
end question
start question
Are there taxi stands at Tbilisi 's Navtlugi train station ?
I do n't see any problem at all at finding a cab at Navtlugi or wherever you want in Tbilisi . Just rise you hand on the road and any free car will stop near you . And also I am sure that plenty of cabs reside on the Navtlugi station . However , if you want to be super safe , you can call taxi by phone with following numbers : 2 717 717 291 14 14 2939 100 2535 535 2200 200 0322 10 50 50 2 201 201 2 30 88 88 2 377 877 2 939 939 247 77 44 293 91 00 291 14 14 274 74 74 2 27 26 26 551 999 244 571 999 244 230 03 01
Mark 's answer is right , I just want to add some useful references for you . If you are in Russia , you can use the map engine from biggest Russian search provider , Yandex : <URL> ( <URL> ) . They works perfectly on mobile , so this is quite useful for you . They are similar to GoogleMaps , but are much more detailed for Russian cities . For example , Yekaterinburg : <URL> Another reason to use such engine is an easy search for anything you need in travel : <URL> Blue dots are small hotels , blue circles are medium hotels , purple circles are paid advertisers , I think . Green letters are metro-stations so you can easily get to any hotel you need : <URL> If you interested in some mobile application similar to Maps.Yandex , I recommend you <URL> . It can get your location and show interesting places around you . I works even without Internet connection , so sometimes is very useful : <URL>
There exists a list with ratings of Bars playing heavy metal on <URL> , <URL> of course has an even larger one , and if you are looking for gigs you might want to check <URL> .
Passports are your ID when traveling globally . Driver licenses and national IDs are not always accepted as a form of ID in many countries . As such everyone who needs to verify your identification will ask to see your passport . For flights to the USA , there is often several layers of security employed . The first is a security check before you reach the check in counter , with a number of questions regarding destination , what you might be carrying etc. . They will check your passport . When you check in for the flight , the airline will need to document your identity ( via your passport ) and also if you have the proper visas or permissions to enter the country , as the airline will be fined if they knowingly board you without proper documents . Departing Immigration is only concerned about your visit to their country , they could care less if you are permitted to enter the next destination . At the gate , another layer of the US imposed security will again check your passport , boarding pass and sometimes even look through your carry on bags . They may also ask if you have the necessary documentation to enter the country . Why this last security check ... because you could give your boarding pass to someone else after you have checked in , someone who has less than desirable ideas in mind . And as I mentioned in my comment , it is impossible for any of these people to know all the rules for all the passports that might be presented . Too many rules and exceptions .
Although originally advertised as such , to date there seem to be no luggage deposit service at Torino Porta Susa . Indeed <URL> return negative answers . <URL> <URL> : Piccola pecca : la stazione super tecnologica , celebrata come uno dei fiori all ' occhiello della città , non ha un deposito bagagli . E se si fa viva una viaggiatrice a chiedere lumi su come fare con zaini e valigie al seguito , la risposta di chi lavora in stazione è : " Non è previsto un deposito bagagli . Se proprio vi serve rivolgetevi a Porta Nuova " . <URL> in stating : There are no left luggage facilities at Milan Porta Garibaldi or at smaller stations including Florence Campo di Marte , Florence Rifredi , Rome Ostiense , Turin Porta Susa , Civitavecchia , San Remo , Livorno , Lucca , Siena ( though the nearby bus station has a facility ) , Montepulciano , Modena , Ravenna , Peschiera del Garda , Orvieto , Rimini , Brindisi , Lecce , Taranto , Reggio di Calabria , Salerno , Siracuse , Pompeii , Sorrento . <URL> The mayor replied stating that it 's a matter of security . I am somewhat doubtful since <URL>
When you arrive with the airport express you will be in an underground station 2 floors below the IFC Mall . There will be two exits : The one on the same level to a taxi station . The other one will be an escalator leading up to the airport express check-in on ground level . Go up the escalator 2 floors . There will be the check-in counter on one side of the hall and a long window with exits and cars passing by on the other side of the hall . Go out through the doors outside and the <URL> will stop right in front of you , <URL> . The right side is blocked with cars dropping off passengers . Since the buses are coming only every 20 minutes , and since your taxi will cost less than 50 HKD , you might want to just take one on the same level when you leave the train . Depending on the amount of people on the train , you could face a 10 minute wait for a taxi also , but you will be able to judge that right when you leave the train before you go up 2 floors to the bus station .
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
Yup , Kosovar guards boarded at Jarinje ( last Kosovo station ) and briefly checked everyone for two minutes and then got off . Then at Rudnica ( first Serbian station ) Serbian guards boarded and started the check after the Train left the Station . They wrote down some stuff on a Piece of paper whilst checking everyone 's ID ( including my Swedish ID Card ) , and then got off the train at the next stop . Exiting Serbia to Montenegro by bus was completely painless - they just took my ID for scanning and gave it back 10 minutes later
Actual practice varies widely by country , but there are ( at least ) four reasons why hotels frown on having more guests in a room than you originally told them . Fire code . Hotels and rooms are rated for maximum occupancy : if they get busted for having two people in a room for one , or ( worse ) 101 guests in a hotel rated for 100 , there are serious legal penalties ( for the hotel ) in many countries . Profit . A room for two usually costs more than a room for one , even when it 's actually the same physical room . If you sneak two people into your single room , they 've lost out on extra income , and obviously the beancounters do n't like this . Registration requirements . Many countries require that all foreign nationals staying in hotels have to be registered , and it may be a violation of the law to have unregistered guests . ( Not necessarily applicable if your newfound friend is a local , although a few particularly paranoid countries register all hotel guests . ) Laws prohibiting cohabitation . Not much of a problem in the West anymore , but in eg . much of the Middle East , having two unrelated and unsupervised people of the opposite sex in the same room may be a crime ( khalwat , " proximity " ) , even if you 're not getting down and dirty . The correct thing to do etiquettewise , then , is to book a room for two in advance , but unless you 're sure you 're getting lucky , this is often impractical . The practical ( but somewhat embarrassing ) thing to do is to request an upgrade at the counter , at which point they can also register your guest . In places like Thailand , where rent-a-dates and sex tourism is big business , hotels either impose " guest fees " for overnight visitors , or ( at the lower end ) explicitly market themselves a " guest-friendly " ; as far as I know , in Bangkok there 's <URL> which proclaims itself a " bastion of wholesome tourism " and bans overnight guests , and has achieved minor notoriety as a result ! But if you 're stuck in some Atlanta-like institution , eg . Japanese business hotels where " single " really means " single " and you 'd have to get another room , you could just do like us international uni students in the dorms did , and sneak your dates in via the fire escape , undetected by the beady eyes of the night security guard at the main entrance , and hope the good vibes balance out the bad karma . Or , if you 're not as skift as as exchange student and are actually in Japan ( or most anywhere in Asia , really ) , you could go rent a <URL> and get a circular bed , mirrors on the ceiling , and bondage Hello Kitty watching over you .
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
Yes , you can ( I did so yesterday ) , for any train in India , as of April 2014 . There is no separate queue for foreign tourists , you have to wait in line at the " Reservation Office " . Expect to spend 30-45 minutes in line . While you are waiting ask the ticket agents for the form , you can fill out your train/address details on the form which will speed up the process once you get to the front ( and make the people behind you happier ) . You must bring your passport . You can pay in rupees .
Yes , for every problem with the police , you can insist to do it at the station . But I would n't choose this as first option automatically . Normally trivial things like showing your ID might extend to several hours ( with a bit of bad luck ) . Getting a car to get you to the next station , waiting there if something is more important , doing the full course of bureaucracy , ( maybe ) getting an additional questioning and a call to your hotel etc.etc . ( depending on the mood ) , paying a fee for the additional effort ( it 's not because they do n't like this behaviour , they have to collect it for certain things ) , and being released in front of the station again instead where they met you first ... If you insist on the station , make sure they know that you have everything necessary but do n't trust them , instead of being here illegally . Easier would be to ask for their ID first . They are obliged ( too ) to show it on request , and to show it long enough that you can read it carefully ( even if you do n't understand German , look at it ) . I did n't find a good image , <URL> has to do . On the backside , there is more information like the name etc. . Scammers usually show you something not withstanding closer inspection , so they do n't want you to look carefully . Additionally , if they are uniformed but without weapon clearly visible on the belt , it 's a fake ( happens often enough to mention it ) . If they refuse to show their ID and/or to take you to a station ( real refusing , not just a " is this really necessary " - thing first ) , call 133 and get some more authentic ones . If they show some authentic looking ID but you still have major doubts for some reason , call too and tell them the number of the ID ( together with location and what they 're doing ) to check it .
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
Paragliding is possible around Lake Toba , there even was <URL> , however it seems the sport has not quite picked up as you report that companies used to fly around there , @Madlozoz reports in a comment frequently going there for weekends and never having seen them and the conclusion of the answer by @Nathan Shoesmith is the same . I found two other leads that might be worth contacting if you are very willing to do the trip ( I 'm not contacting anyone without a personal interest but you might want to ) : <URL> has paragliding pics from the festival but also a few months after and seems to have a flying-related store in Medan . There is an address , phone numbers and you could reach him via FB message . The site has reviews recent as 2015 . <URL> offers paragliding tours around Lake Toba ( I ca n't quite make out if there 's also single day activities but sure you could ask ) . There 's a contact form , no price info and the copyright is as of 2014 so not sure if that service is still running . They are based in Bekasi , West Java , <URL> Alternative 1 : Ask any of the providers of multiday-tours you found for a quote for a tandem flight around Lake Toba . If you pay right I can not imagine they would not be willing . Alternative 2 : There seems to be a more active paragliding scene in <URL> and the nearby <URL> is also of volcanic origin as well as fairly peaceful <URL> is <URL> I found several operators in the area through <URL> : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> even give a quote for a short flight : 300.000 / pax Now I am sure some of these links are inactive but others might not . If you are not satisfied with flying around the area there , you could always ask these guys for a quote for lake Toba . Also <URL> ( to which +1 ) offers tours around lake Toba and as mentioned above it would not hurt asking for the single-day lake Toba-version . I 'm afraid these are only leads at best but they might still be helpful to anyone stumbling upon this post .
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
Wikipedia has a page on <URL> , and claims : Service charges are included with the bill , and tipping is uncommon However , their link is broken and I suspect it might be wrong . All other resources I can find online indicate that you should , and how much . <URL> 10 % in restaurants and taxis . $ .50 - .75 per bag to porters <URL> : In Paraguay , restaurants that do not automatically add gratuity ( it will say if they do at the bottom of your menu ) then a tip of 10 percent is enough . I found that my servers delighted in the other - than - monetary - tips I gave them . Paperback books , picture books ( postcards ) and compliments to their managers were high on their list . In taxis no tips are necessary . The standard of $ .50 - $ .75 per bag to handlers was the norm . <URL> : 10 % should be left for the waiters . Small change should be given to porters and taxi drivers . So perhaps the culture has changed , but all signs are indicating that yes , you should tip , and especially if the restaurant indicates as such .
According to the <URL> and to <URL> there are lockers in Koyasan station but not in Gokurakubashi . Anyway , if I remember correctly , you have to take the Nankai line from Osaka Namba station to Gokurakubashi and again you will have to change at the same station on your way back to Kyoto so , probably , you are more likely to find a locker at the Namba station on a busy day .
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
It 's fairly normal in many parts of Europe that regular non-entertainment , non-tourist oriented shops keep regular business hours and do n't open in the evening . This is especially true of smaller shops . The historical , economic and social reason is simple - shop-workers like to have a life . They do n't want to work evenings any more than you do , and most shop owners do n't want to pay staff to work evenings unless there is the trade to support it . Europeans have n't bought into the idea that ' shopping is entertainment ' , or that everyone should be able to buy plumbing supplies at 2am . it is n't a hard and fast rule . The bigger the city , and the bigger the store , the more likely it is to be open later . You will almost always find a big grocery store that opens well into the evening , and often bigger department stores on the outskirts of the town open late too . But smaller stores in the centre of town usually do n't . Restaurants , pubs , clubs etc. do of course open late . For essential services like a pharmacy there is usually one that is open late in most towns , on a rotating basis .
There are definitely buses between Ooty and Coimbatore , but you may have to change in Mettupalayam . They also run through Coonor . Looking at my travelog , it took about three hour from Coimbatore to Mettupalayam which is relatively flat . But the part between Ooty and Mettupalayam is much slower but really nice . Also the bus station you arrive at in Coimbatore is not in the center , and it will take a while to get from there to the train station . I think if you take an early bus in Ooty you can make it in time for your train , but taking the toy train may take too much time . If you have enough time , take the toy train the day before and then the bus back to Ooty in the afternoon . The toy train was very busy when I was there earlier this year , you had to make reservations weeks in advanced . Just double-check at the bus station in Ooty .
end question
start question
Wild game for lunch or dinner , in northern Virginia , USA ?
I do not believe it is legal for hunters to sell their wild game directly to restaurants in the surrounding states , so even though " wild " game and poultry are available on many Washington , D.C.-area menus , a farm-to-table arrangement is usually advertised . Chowhound and , to a lesser extent , MenuPages , is a good resource . Bison , duck , quail , and rabbit are relatively widely available , and you can even get elk and deer venison burgers at the Fuddrucker 's hamburger chain . There are a couple of restaurants in the Washington area known for their wild game offerings ( bolded below ) , but note that such dishes are often seasonal and that menus change often . It 's always good to contact the restaurant to confirm a particular dish is available . Great Falls has two restaurants featuring wild game on their regular menu . <URL> in Great Falls offers emu , antelope , rabbit , venison , wild boar , and assorted wild game dishes . " <URL> , an Alsatian restaurant , has deer and quail dishes , and has offered pheasant and elk in the past . In Arlington , there is <URL> with venison , rabbit , and bison dishes , and in Falls Church the well-regarded <URL> offers a venison chop and has offered guinea hen and pheasant in the past . In Washington , <URL> offers a separate wild game menu , currently featuring quail , venison , and wild boar . Other places with the occasional quail , venison , or boar dish include <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
As Jonathan 's answer mentions , pretty much all police officers open carry firearms in the U.S. ( pistols on their belt . ) Other than that , however , seeing people visibly carry their firearms is very rare in the U.S. ( unless you 're at a gun range or some such thing . ) I live in one of the most gun-friendly parts of the U.S. and I almost never see a firearm carried openly in public , other than by police . Lots of people carry firearms , but nearly all of them carry them concealed where you will not see them . It is also very unlikely that you will see armed soldiers carrying rifles patrolling in public in the U.S. as you may have seen in France . The only times I 've ever seen that in person in the U.S. were when the President was about to step off of Air Force One within sight of where I was sitting and briefly in airports after 9/11 ( and ceremonially at Arlington National Cemetery , if you count that . ) You will not see armed soldiers in airports nowadays , though , except in very rare situations ( such as the President landing there . ) Soldiers patrolling airports in the U.S. only happened for maybe a few months to a year or so after the September 11 attacks .
With the possible exception of Niagara ( Niagara Falls is a smaller , more tourist-oriented city , so the <URL> may be somewhat less comprehensive ) , all of the cities you listed should have extensive public transportation coverage . Most cities offer some form of unlimited travel pass , and in most cases a weekly pass is available . I think in general , you will find that the schedules of US public transportation will be a bit looser than you are used to in the UK ( at least from my limited experience of the London Underground ) . Pickup times can vary by 15 minutes or more in many cities without being considered unusual , especially for the bus lines . Generally speaking , you want to be a few minutes early ( 5 or more ) , just to be safe . Philadelphia , as Raj More mentioned , is serviced by SEPTA , and has a good combination of buses , subways and trains . The trains are generally reliable , and provide fast and easy access through the main parts of the city , operating out of 3 main hubs within the city , and provide access to most of the suburban areas . The subways provide good access throughout the city , to the areas not immediately serviced by the trains . The buses provide access to just about everywhere else , although they tend to run less frequently , particularly for the less popular destinations , and their schedules are more ... flexible . Chicago is served by the <URL> that is similar to Philadelphia 's SEPTA train system , providing access to most suburban areas . There is also an above-ground elevated train that provides good access within the city . I am less familiar with the bus system , since during the time I lived there , I took the elevated train ( " the El " ) when traveling within the city . New York 's subway is an excellent means of travel within the city . Edit : I missed Las Vegas , which deserves some special mention . Las Vegas may be a bit atypical , as , much like Niagara Falls , it is largely tourist-oriented . However , it diverges considerably from Niagara in attitude towards tourists . The lure of the free or cheap deal is frequently a means of attracting tourists to specific casinos , and this can frequently be exploited for traveling . Many of the hotels and casinos offer free shuttle services , plus there are a number of non-traditional public transportation methods available : <URL> .
OK , some time , so I 've found the three best candidates that I can , although not all are entire planes ... or in planes ... First up , we have the <URL> - you can rent a home , which comes WITH a plane and pool ! <URL> This is a plane that was owned by Howard Hughes , now converted into ... a house boat . The website is horrific , but the photos are really interesting . Finally , some have their Malibu Beach House , but here we have the <URL> . About 4.5 million parts recycled from an old Boeing 747 were re-purposed to create this environmentally sustainable home , and the front portion of the fuselage and the upper first class cabin deck are used to shelter the guest house . As for a hostel , no , sorry , no luck so far aside from the one in Stockholm , but will keep looking !
As you travel you 'll find that many countries , it 's perfectly fine for people to invite those they just met to their place , or to help them out ( even going out of your own way ) . In some places it 's almost impolite not to . A couple of examples : A couple I 'd met in Vianden , Luxembourg , knew I was taking the bus and train back to Luxembourg City in the morning . They suggested instead that I go see the castle , and then we meet again mid-morning . I stored my bags in their car , and then we drove back down to Luxembourg city , via a lookout and some of the small local towns . It was out of their way , but they were happy to show me around and to help out . Uzbekistan - a guy I 'd just met invited me to his town , and I stayed at his place which he shared with his brothers . They shared dinner with me , we looked at photos and they prepared an outdoor bedding/mattress for me - which was awesome , sleeping under the stars . And then the next day they helped me find the required banks and taxi ranks etc to get to the next town , and we even visited an art museum together , and went to their parents ' place for breakfast who also welcomed me in . Very hospitable . A French and English couple I met in Central Asia ( they were cycling ) , are arriving in New Zealand next week . They 've sent camping and sleeping gear by mail , and I 'm receiving it for them as they had no postal address otherwise . Sure I could sell it on Ebay , but instead I 'll get to catch up with them again and help them on their way around the country . Sure , some might be dodgy . Some will want money , some will want ... other things . But overwhelmingly , people are friendly , and proud of their country , and pleased that visitors have come to see it . If they can help make it a better experience , they will .
I do not believe it is legal for hunters to sell their wild game directly to restaurants in the surrounding states , so even though " wild " game and poultry are available on many Washington , D.C.-area menus , a farm-to-table arrangement is usually advertised . Chowhound and , to a lesser extent , MenuPages , is a good resource . Bison , duck , quail , and rabbit are relatively widely available , and you can even get elk and deer venison burgers at the Fuddrucker 's hamburger chain . There are a couple of restaurants in the Washington area known for their wild game offerings ( bolded below ) , but note that such dishes are often seasonal and that menus change often . It 's always good to contact the restaurant to confirm a particular dish is available . Great Falls has two restaurants featuring wild game on their regular menu . <URL> in Great Falls offers emu , antelope , rabbit , venison , wild boar , and assorted wild game dishes . " <URL> , an Alsatian restaurant , has deer and quail dishes , and has offered pheasant and elk in the past . In Arlington , there is <URL> with venison , rabbit , and bison dishes , and in Falls Church the well-regarded <URL> offers a venison chop and has offered guinea hen and pheasant in the past . In Washington , <URL> offers a separate wild game menu , currently featuring quail , venison , and wild boar . Other places with the occasional quail , venison , or boar dish include <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
You best option is to stay at the camping of Rock Werchter ( camping tickets should be bought separately , since they are not included in you combi ticket ) . Camping &amp; food You 'll most likely arrive at Leuven station by train . There are a lot of free buses from Leuven , which brings you near the campings . You could best buy some cheap food in a supermarket in Leuven or at a small supermarket at the camping itself ( which is more expensive ) . You could also bring your own travel cooking gear . Fun &amp; keep stuff safe Personally , I think hanging out at the camping is the most fun of festivals . Perhaps there are lockers , but I 've never used them . Just do n't bring super expensive stuff I would say , because there is always a risk of things getting stolen , although normally you should be safe .
It depends on whether you want relatively flat trails or mountain biking , as you did n't say . The <URL> is a paved trail several miles in length that begins just north of Shea Boulevard and ends in Tempe . There are only a few places on the trail that require crossing a street , as there are lots of tunnels that pass below busy streets . There would be dozens of hotels located along this path , ranging from simple motel-like accommodations to pricey resorts . <URL> of the path and various connections . For mountain biking , I recommend South Mountain in Phoenix which is the largest city park in the world . There are more than <URL> in South Mountain ranging from 1 mile in length to 14 miles ( 58 miles total ) . Difficulty ranges from moderate to difficult . There are also several hotels/resorts in the South Mountain area . You could also check for accommodations in the <URL> of Phoenix just south of the mountain . Note that it is just starting to warm up here -- late April and it was over 100 ° F ( 38 ° C ) here today ( I live in Gilbert , just SE of Phoenix ) . The forecast for next week is mostly high 90 's to low 100 's ° F ( 35-40 ° C ) ; it 's just going to gradually get hotter . So take LOTS of water with you .
The website <URL> is a fuel calculator that works in Canada or the U.S. , and taking into account the make and model of your car and pump prices , calculates the cost of a trip . Here 's an example drive from Toronto to Tobermory , ON - It 's surprisingly difficult to get the default routing to stay in Canada ! <URL> . One of the things I love is a comparison of the cost to fly . Keep it mind , when you discover that Toronto to Vancouver in a RV comes out to $ 903 . The list of RVs is fairly scarce , however , so my 1986 Toyota Coachman is n't listed . As such , I need to click on the " Ca n't find your car " and enter its pathetic , if typical mileage - namely 10mpg . In general a Class C RV can expect 10 - 12 mpg . Class A 's ( the big busses ) are in the 8 - 10 mpg range . Fifth Wheels are completely dependent on the truck , but if you 're getting 15mpg , praise the Lord ! Ditto for Class B vans . I typically plan my costs at 10mpg ( or 3 miles per $ ) , and then celebrate that I was a little bit harsher in my calculations than reality . Be aware that older RV 's in particular do n't take kindly to the mountains , so Banff will suck down the gas more than Manitoba . Finally , remember that gas in Canada is pretty expensive . Back in 2010 , when I drove from Northern Virginia to <URL> , I found gas prices creep steadily upwards as I went further north . At the time , gas was in the low $ 3 's when I left DC , mid $ 3 's in PA ( and the mountains were terrifying as I would floor the gas and still manage no more than 20 mph ! ) , high $ 3 's in NY , and about $ 4.25 / gallon in Canada . As a Kiwi , I know you are used to buying gas in liters ( which Canada does ) , but for us ' Muricans , remember that you have to multiply by ( roughly ) 4 . You know you 're going to be in trouble when buying gas by the quart .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Tap water is always drinkable in Italy , especially in the cities ( of course , it may be a little bit different if you are talking about a cottage in the middle of nowhere ) . The real question is how good is that . For instance , in Rome the water has a very strong percentage of limestone and it taste does n't very good . For this reason , several people tends to buy a water purifier or a simple purifier container like the following one . In smaller cities , like Bergamo , pipe water is definitely better than bigger cities . Specifically , in Bergamo the pipe water seems to be <URL> . Talking about Milano , and big cities in general , it depends on where you live ( how far from the main water collector , the quality of the pipes , etc ) . My suggestion is to either try , ask the neighbours or use a water quality test to check the quality of the water in the apartment . In any case , it 's potable . So you can drink it , or use it for a tea or coffee . It may not taste extremely well or the amount of mineral salt may be greater than what you would expect .
Yes . From <URL> : You do not need to apply to change your nonimmigrant status if you were admitted into the United States for business reasons ( B-1 visa category ) and you wish to remain in the United States for pleasure before your authorized stay expires .
Several restaurants offer Thanksgiving Dinners , with prices ranging from roughly # 20 to # 130 . Some can be found with brief descriptions at the links below . <URL> <URL> <URL>
From <URL> , it appears it 's very much dependent on which states you plan on driving in : If you are a visitor from outside the United States and Canada who plans to drive in the U.S. , check with the motor vehicle department of each state you will drive in for its requirements . Some of the states will require an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) in addition to a valid license from your own country . That 's a bit vague though , and does n't clarify the language thing . Fortunately , <URL> covers this : Tourists may drive in the US for up to a year with a foreign driving licence , provided the issuing country is party to the 1949 Geneva Convention on Road Traffic ( see art. 1 and art. 25 para . 1 ) or to the Convention on the Regulation of Inter-American Automotive Traffic ( Washington , 1943 ) ; most countries are contracting parties . ( Good news , <URL> ! ) They go on to say : If your foreign licence does n't contain a photograph or is written in a language other than English , it 's wise ( but not mandatory ) to obtain an International Driver 's Permit ( IDP ) . Always carry your foreign licence as well as your IDP . Without an IDP it may be necessary to obtain a certified English translation of your foreign driving licence , usually obtainable from your country 's embassy in the US . Hope that helps clarify things .
Emirati immigrations is a federal agency , hence visa rules are the same for all Emirates . The visas are issued for all the country under the name of UAE and not for a single Emirate or under its name .
It does not cover all the regular busses in the country but <URL> is the main operator and does operate busses you could use . Unfortunately , it 's not a part of the national train company ( ÖBB ) and the website therefore also includes trains , which is why busses do not show up in the search results for this particular journey ... rome2rio is another site that 's very nice for intermodal comparisons , and it seems that in this case the <URL> . ( You will notice that the busses suggested by rome2rio can also be found on the postbus website , but only if you look for them one-by-one ) .
I suggest <URL> I tend to avoid having to rent cars , but the few times I have , I found these guys to be the cheapest . They source car hires from multiple providers and , consistently , for me , have been cheaper than renting with the individual providers themselves .
Considering you are a Greece passport holder you can simply hop on a plane and go to Chile for a stay of up to 90 days . Greece nationals do not need a visa if they intend to visit Chile for less than 90 days . Kindly make sure your passport is at least 90 days till expiry , prefer to be 6 months . resourceful links : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you want to clear any confusions you can call the embassy @ 202-785-1746
I am told , the problem with them Indian customs is , you can read them boys all the rules from the book , but if they see you with more than 2 average sized ( 750 ml ? ) alcoholic bottles , you have had it . By the book , you can carry 2 liters of alcohol : <URL> The best option in experiences of people I know and as others here have suggested , it 's best to buy in US , pack well and put it in the check in luggage . Many liquors are way cheaper in the state run package stores than what it is in any other package/beverage store . In case it helps , I think last time I bought a Gelnlivet 18 year old 750 ml was 95 bucks . But you have to also keep in mind , the bottle weight of such liquor can get very heavy . There should n't be any problem all along the way . Just my personal suggestion ; You get all the GLENLIVETs and GLENFIDDICHs in India for reasonable price . How about taking something exquisite which is n't available in India at all ? May be a Tequila 1800 ?
The specific policy will depend on your fare rules and on the airline you choose , but a week is a frightfully long time when it comes to airline tickets . Revenue tickets Some airlines let you pay a fee to reserve a seat and guarantee the price at the time of booking for up to seven days . For example , United calls its offering <URL> , Air France <URL> , and Lufthansa the unimaginative <URL> . It may not be offered for every fare or on every route . Some airlines allow you to reserve the seat and price for free , but only for 24 hours after booking or till midnight the following day . Some airlines , including American , make it possible to hold online ; others require you to call in . Still other airlines , including Qantas , allow you to reserve a seat for free , but will not honor the price at reservation time . Among U.S.-based airlines , it is most common now that the airline will not hold a reservation for you ; however , they do give you up to 24 hours to cancel a purchase without penalty , subject to other restrictions ( e.g. the trip might need to be at least a week or two in the future ) . In other words , you have post-purchase rather than pre-purchase flexibility . In my experience , the refund extends even to non-refundable fares . Cathay Pacific , for its part , allows <URL> a 24-hour prepurchase hold or a 24-hour postpurchase refund grace period , but not both . Award tickets Things are a looser with frequent flyer award tickets -- sometimes . Air Canada , British Airways , and others do not allow holds on award tickets at all , and few airlines are willing or able to hold award seats on partner carriers . But if you are redeeming on your " native " metal , you may be able to call in and hold the seat for several days . Extending a hold Sometimes , you can get call in and get an agent to extend a hold for you once or twice , especially if you have elite frequent flyer status . But there are no guarantees . They will not do so on high-demand routes , especially for frequent flyer redemptions in premium cabins , and may not be able to enforce a hold or an extension of a hold on partner airlines in the itinerary in the first place . Back in the days when many bookings were done through travel agents and on paper , there was more uncertainty as well as more capacity , allowing holds of three or even seven days on some fares . But airlines , like any other business , prefer to have the revenue of someone willing to pay now as opposed to the potential revenue of someone who might pay later , and in the modern competitive environment , holds are quite unpopular . The 24-hour window persists because ARC , the largest clearinghouse for airline tickets , continues to extend its traditional 24-hour grace period for travel agents to void tickets without penalty -- but that may not last either .
end question
start question
Where can I go with an Irish visa but without a Schengen visa ?
Ireland is part of <URL> that comprises the islands of Ireland , Great Britain , the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands , but <URL> : Unlike the Schengen Agreement , the Common Travel Area provides no mechanism for the mutual recognition of leave to enter and remain , and the United Kingdom and Ireland operate entirely separate visa systems with distinct entry requirements . In general , a United Kingdom visa will not allow a traveller entry to Ireland , nor vice-versa . Since your visa is single entry I would recommend you to stay in Ireland if you can not obtain multiple entry visa .
A type D visa , like a residence permit , allows you to make short trips to the other Schengen countries -- very much as if you held a long multiple-entry type C visa or were visa-free . You only need to comply with the 90-of-180 days rule for the days you spend in Schengen minus the Czech Republic . The " valid for " field on D visas state the issuing country rather than " Schengen States " , because it is only in that country you get the full rights implied by that visa . The less extensive rights to short visits is something one needs to just know . It is not true that you " can only enter EU from the Czech Republic " . You 're perfectly allowed to enter and exit the Schengen Area through any of the external borders . You should be prepared to explain and document that you 're on your way either to the Czech Republic or to an allowed short trip in one of the other Schengen countries . You should bring your passport such that you can identify yourself to any authorities that might ask . A student ID is unlikely to be accepted by police who are already suspicious enough to ask you for papers .
No , you can not . Apart from very specific circumstances , visas must be obtained in advance from your country of usual residence .
<URL> You can apply for a General Visitor visa if you 're : 18 or over travelling to the UK for leisure ( not work or study ) able to support yourself for the duration of your trip not in transit to another country , except for Ireland , the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands able to pay for your return or onward journey I might go to the UK and not come back because I might not have enough funds to return to Egypt which is not true That is your assumption . How do you intend to prove it to the visa officer ? You have to give proof to support your point . evidence that you can support yourself during your trip , eg bank statements or payslips for the last 6 months details of where you intend to stay and your travel plans - you should n't pay for accommodation or travel until you get your visa dad 's job or mine As you are the one who is travelling , you have to reveal your financial situation , not your father 's . wanted to visit my cousin , she lives there plus I need to go on a vacation You can not claim to take a vacation as a right and so demand a visa . You have to provide evidence to support your case . If you intend to stay with your cousin , then you will have to provide his ( her ) details too . If you decide to apply for a family visitor visa a letter of invitation from him ( her ) will be required . My mum wrote my application Next time fill your application yourself . Regarding reapplying ( no need to wait for 6 months , I have n't seen any evidence for such till now ) , reapply with the proper documentation . Err on the side of caution and be diligent in providing proof to support your application . Check the link on gov.uk and follow it to the letter .
Ireland is part of <URL> that comprises the islands of Ireland , Great Britain , the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands , but <URL> : Unlike the Schengen Agreement , the Common Travel Area provides no mechanism for the mutual recognition of leave to enter and remain , and the United Kingdom and Ireland operate entirely separate visa systems with distinct entry requirements . In general , a United Kingdom visa will not allow a traveller entry to Ireland , nor vice-versa . Since your visa is single entry I would recommend you to stay in Ireland if you can not obtain multiple entry visa .
Nowhere . Even entering Ireland would require an ID with a photo on it ( and airlines flying there typically insist on passports ) . Edit : the comment is right , I was thinking of the ferries which do require some photo ID ( anecdotal evidence suggests , however , even a library card is enough ) . So yes , you can get to Ireland by driving in from Northern Ireland .
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
According to the <URL> , " the holders of Schengen visas with two or multiple entries , national visas or residence permits issued by Schengen Member States " can enter Romania without any additional visa . They do n't mention anything about there being any problem with you visiting Romania before any Schengen country on the visa . Since Romania is not a Schengen country , they let you in on the basis of the visa in the same way that they let in US citizens on the basis that they are US citizens , and thus do n't need a visa . The only limitation that they mention is that your stay is limited to the duration of your Schengen visa . I recommend that you <URL> or the Romanian embassy serving your home country to be sure about this . Please note that : For stays longer than 90 days visitors need to need to [ sic ] apply for a temporary residence permit ( either before arriving into Romania or at least 30 days before the 90-day " no visa " stay expires ) . ( <URL> )
Manuel , apparently there 's a document called ARB , Autorização de Retorno ao Brasil ( " Authorization to Return to Brazil " ) . I first found it on <URL> , then I found it on the <URL> . Sadly , I could not find any link on that subject in a website from brazilian consulate or embassy in Australia . In short , ARB it is a document valid for a single trip back to Brazil . Once in the country , it will be seized by the authorities and you 'll need to renew your Brazilian passport before leaving the country ( or use your Australian one ) . I 'm sure you can call your nearest consulate in Australia and obtain this document that will allow you to come back to Brazil .
Firstly , where are you going ? You want to visit the one country or some number of them ? You should note , that there is no such thing like Schengen visa . You can only get visa to the country in Schengen . So , first of all , you must select the one country you will be most time in . Note that different countries have their own requirements to the tourists . And since you 're in Schengen , you can easily travel between countries in it without any problems . According to your question , there are a lot of types of the documents showing that you intend to return to your country of origin : If you have a good job , simply get the receipt from your bank account showing that you are not going to search the job in Schengen . If you have family , get some documents about that - there are much more chances that you will return to your home for your family . If you have any immovables , provide documents about it . Ask for a list in the embassy of the country you have chosen - there can be some more documents that count as guarantee for you to return home .
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
You need to visit the Danish embassy/consulate ( or perhaps an embassy of another Schengen country which handles applications for Denmark in your current location ) , and fill the <URL> provided there . Usually you will be asked for the following documents : A copy of your passport a long with your original passport . Passport size photo , clear , no head cover , no smile , light background . Bank statement for the last six months to show that you can cover the trip expenses . Or , a job certificate from your employer showing your income . Invitation letters from sponsors ( if available ) Application fee ( differs from embassy to another , country to another ) These were the usual requests , sometimes they ask for more or less . It also depends on the country you request the visa from , but generally getting the Schengen visa is easy as long as you provided the papers they ask for . Remember , it takes around 2 weeks usually for the visa to be issued .
You 're right that applying to the French consulate is fraught with difficulty and likely not to work . But you could try , if you are completely upfront ( do n't cheat and lie about your intentions ) , you do n't risk a refusal ( which would have all sorts of unpleasant circumstances ) but only a rejection ( the consulate will promptly decline to process your application and you should get your fee and documents back ) . If you try this , join a letter explaining why to your application , it might help too . A few other things you might try is <URL> ( if needed in a neighbouring country you can access easily ) or keep watching the schedule to see if new appointment slots open . In any case , three month waiting time is not acceptable ( people are not supposed to apply more than three months in advance ! ) so you can certainly try to contact the German consulate ( politely , do n't act entitled or angry even if you and I know they are at fault ) and ask if they can suggest a solution .
Since the UK is not part of the Schengen Area , I do n't see how this would be necessary ( and why you would want to do that anyway ) . If the country where you are applying for a Schengen visa thinks that they are interested in whether you have applied for other visa before , then they have internal ways to do that . They do n't need to ask you . There is the Schengen Information System ( SIS ) which in part handles such queries automatically . The UK as an EU member state participates in the SIS and exchanges information with other EU states , even though it is not part of Schengen ( and therefore can not grant Schengen visa ) .
I 'm going to assume you 're from the UK , based only on the fact the learning to fly abroad is popular for UK residents , since many places offer flight time cheaper than the UK . You 're from Saudi , but I do n't think that changes anything . The southern USA used to be the venue of choice , because of low flight time costs and reliably good weather . I understand that recent visa restriction changes mean that USA is now pretty much off the table for someone wanting to earn their PPL on a vacation . My first recommendation is Canada . The <URL> starts by saying you need a student visa , but then notes that students intending to come to Canada for six months or less do n't need one . I would recommend checking this out before committing to anything . The weather is good , in the sense that flying conditions are rarely poor enough to prevent you flying . ( I recommend summer rather than winter though , just because people mostly do n't want to fly light planes when its very cold , even if the weather permits it ) . Other popular venues are Australia and South Africa . I 'm afraid I ca n't speak for their visa requirements . The schools I found with my brief search were all focussed on CPL training ( even more popular than foreign PPL training since the savings are higher ) . Your search results may vary . If you have a ticket paid to anywhere , those two would also provide you with the advantage of an awesome vacation experience . Be aware that learning to fly is going to occupy you full time for several weeks . While the weather may be nice , you wo n't get much ' vacation ' in the sense of relaxed beach-sitting or sightseeing while you are doing it .
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
I have the <URL> : The maximum length of stay in Europe for non European Union passport holders is determined by the Schengen accord and is currently limited to 90 days within any 180 day period . The important thing to note is that you may not leave the Schengen Visa area for a day and return to restart the 90 day clock . In other words , you must be absent from the Schengen area for at least 90 days in a 180 day period to be legal . So if you friend has a multiple entry visa for 5 years , he can stay a maximum of approximately 5 * 180 days ( Stay 90 days , be absent for 90 days , and that for 5 years ) . It is n't allowed to stay longer but I heard that those rules are rarely enforced and penalized , but if you 're friend looks really that dodgy it might be better to not risk it ;)
Having a UK indefinite leave to remain has nothing to do in this case , only the passport you have determines if you need a Schengen visa or not and since you have a South African passport you 'll need to apply for a Schengen visa in advance . Sources : <URL> <URL>
<URL> is rather helpful and includes these Usually , Rent-A-Wreck requires renters to be at least 18 years old , but some locations may require a minimum age of 25 years . For consumers under 25 , a credit card is usually required for payment and the rental rate may be higher . Please contact the individual Rent-A-Wreck car rental location for their specific age policies . Many , but not all , Rent-A-Wreck locations will rent to cash customers . Most locations will require that cash customers fill out a cash qualification questionnaire at the rental location during normal business hours so that it may be verified . A cash deposit will be required if a credit card is not presented for payment . If you are interested in renting a car using cash , please contact the individual location for their specific prices and policies . Debit cards or ' check cards ' carrying the logo of a major bank processor like VISA or MasterCard that are linked to checking accounts are also accepted as a form of payment at most Rent-A-Wreck locations . In Canada they redirect to <URL> which have many , many Toronto locations . Good luck !
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
end question
start question
Is it now feasible for an adventurous independent traveller to visit Chechnya ?
First of all , I 'm not recommending visiting Chechnya either . It can be really dangerous . But the real danger is in the other republics in the region , especially Ingushetia . If you 're serious in your decision to visit Chechnya - I have " good news " for you - <URL> ( chief of the Republic ) is doing his best to attract new tourists to the reconstructed republic . As for now , the construction of the ski resort were made ( April 2011 ) , and it will be in the <URL> . Construction has already started , and you can wait for it to finish - after that there will be more information about getting to the Chechnya . Update : <URL> I Ca n't find any info about ski resorts in English , but <URL> described in Russian . It says that the work is already begun , the necessary funds have been secured , and the chiefs of the republic hope that some day people will stop fearing Chechnya .
TL ; DR : Yes . The Northern Territory is huge , and spans a range of climates from sopping-wet tropical to bone-dry desert . The <URL> ( Dec 2015 ) are primarily around the Daly River/Waters region , several hundred kilometers south of Darwin , and both Darwin itself and the tourist hubs of Alice Springs and Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , over 1000 km to the south , are entirely unaffected . All three have direct flights from Sydney . All that said , it 's <URL> right now in NT , meaning the tropical bits get a lot of rain even when it 's not outright flooding . Down at Uluru though , it 's summer and thus very dry and hot .
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
Bigger airports does n't necessarily mean better fares . I would say that the competition on a specific route is key to better fares . I live for example in Belgium , but often fly from Amsterdam airport . Some airlines consider main train stations as airports , so I can book a airplane ticket from the train station of my home town to almost anywhere , " transferring " at Amsterdam airport . Often I pay less then a passenger on the same flight leaving Amsterdam , who boarded in Amsterdam directly . I guess it mainly boils down to pulling passengers away from Brussels airport . So to find the better fares try to identify <URL> .
Best answer is probably - legally : yes . Realistically : no . You 're signing a contract that you agree to pay for damages , beer from the minibar , etc , and as a minor , you ca n't legally enter into a contract . So legally they could ' let you ' , but it 's highly unlikely that they 'd want to expose themselves to a risk like that . From <URL> : Hotels may generally evict a guest and keep the room rental payment , despite the eviction , for the following reasons : Disorderly conduct Nonpayment Using the premises for an unlawful purpose or act Bringing property onto the premises that may be dangerous to others Failing to register as a guest Using false pretenses to obtain accommodations Being a minor unaccompanied by an adult registered guest < ========= this one Violating federal , state , or local hotel laws or regulations Violating a conspicuously posted hotel or motel rule Failing to vacate a room at the agreed checkout time <URL> may also prove to be of interest . It seems the one " loophole " you might have is for a parent to write a letter of consent and provide a security deposit in advance . But I 'd contact them first to check . Otherwise , you may just need to resort to " couchsurfing " - although I ca n't officially condone that , as <URL> requires that you be 18 to use its service ...
It is normally considered a visit if you are processed by Customs and Immigration , which you do n't usually do on a connecting flight .
I believe that when you applied for the visa , you specifically mentioned that you will be traveling with an adult whose name has to be specifically mentioned on your visa . The Gov.UK website clearly mentions that in case this adult is not with you , your entry will be denied . When traveling to the UK with an adult ( someone over the age of 18 ) you 'll need to identify them in your visa application . Their name will appear on your visa , and you 'll be refused entry to the UK if you arrive in the UK without them . Now , assuming your current case , the option which you suggested should work in theory . Albeit I wo n't say it is a safe option at all . Ideally , once you get to the UK , unless you break any laws there , you should n't be stopped while getting back to India . On the other hand the correct way to do this is to change your visa into one which allows you to travel alone . Now , I 'm not sure how this works in practice , but the Gov.UK site has a <URL> on traveling alone as on a Child Visitor Visa . As per this section it should be possible for you to travel alone as long as , Your parent or guardian will need to provide their : written consent for you to travel to the UK full contact details and , They 'll also need to provide proof that you have somewhere suitable to live during your stay in the UK , including : the name and date of birth of the person that you will be staying with an address where you will be living details of your relationship to the person who 'll be looking after you consent in writing so they can look after you during your stay in the UK
Yellowstone National Park wo n't be open on Easter , other than the road from Mammoth to the northeast entrance . Yellowstone 's winter season winds down in early March and the interior roads do n't open until mid to late April . So Easter is not really a good time to go . Hotels and campgrounds do n't start opening until the first of May .
It 's safe . Per both the <URL> and <URL> , radiation levels in Hokkaido are safe ( green ) at less than 0.05 microSieverts ( μSv ) per hour , or 1.2 μSv / day . For comparison , if you live in a brick or concrete house you get a dose of <URL> , and if you spend 14 hours on a plane , you will get a dose of <URL> from atmospheric radiation .
Yes , there is a code for the Bay Area : QSF , which covers SFO , OAK and SJC . These are called " Metropolitan area airport codes " , and <URL> . However , there 's an important caveat : unlike " NYC " , this particular code is not actually an IATA code , it 's just convenient shorthand for some airline booking systems ( GDS ) . " QSF " will thus work on Sabre and ITA , but not other systems , where " QSF " may also be an obscure airport in Algeria . Wikipedia has a ( partial ) list of bona fide <URL> .
After visiting Grjótagjá , I 'm able to respond my own question since @MikkaRin answer is not as complete as it should be . When you arrive to Grjótagjá you find these panel : It 's self-explanatory : " The public is prohibited from bathing or use of caves for purposes other than for inspection and photography " . Given this , it states that the temperature is between 43 and 46 degrees , over the <URL> ( that is near 42ºC ) . Also , the panel warns about the possibility of falling rocks and leaves at your own risk the entry . So if with all this you still want to bathe , is possible ? Yes . When we first stayed there , nobody was watching the site and a couple of islanders ( probably , not confirmed ) were leaving the site after bathing . The next morning , when we returned to make some photos with natural light , nobody was at this area . What happen if you bathe ? I confess we bathed . We made a flexible interpretation of the panel : we can bathe here if we have a photographic purpose . Also , we thought that we ca n't have any problem with the owner of the land or the authorities ( because we stayed just 30 minutes , nobody guarding and other people were bathing here before we arrive ) and we thought the probability of failing rocks were very low . The big problem was the water temperature . It 's very hot , hotter than I have ever tried ( in Budapest I could stay 15 minutes without any problem in a 42ºC hot tub ) . I had to go out after 10 minutes and other friends could n't ever stay more than 5 minutes . After bathing , you have to dry up very fast or you will start to shiver and start feeling sick ( it happened to 2 of 5 persons in the group ) .
( Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor , etc ) Ebola is not contagious in the same way as , say , influenza outbreaks . It 's a horrible contagious disease , but it requires an exchange of bodily fluids for transmission - particularly blood , sweat , sexual fluids , vomit , bile etc. . Transmission usually occurs in close proximity - between family members , sexual partners or others sharing accommodation , through medical contact , or contact with improperly-treated deceased . Check your own government 's travel advice : but for an example , the ( very cautious ) UK government are currently <URL> let alone Morocco - here 's their <URL> : The risk to most travellers is very low ... Transmission of Ebola can only occur when there is direct contact with the blood or body fluids of an infected person , animal , or objects , such as needles , that have been contaminated with blood or body fluids . As for Morocco , not only is it the other side of the Sahara to the Ebola outbreak , the areas between ( Northern Mali , Western Sahara , South West Algeria ) are unstable barely populated areas with banditry and very little travel or trade . If ebola was to spread to Morocco , it would almost certainly be by plane travel , which is a ) closely monitored and b ) no more likely to arrive at Morocco than any other country that flies to Guinea . Those Ebola horror stories from the past that people love to share , of terrifyingly fast-spreading outbreaks , usually involve poorly prepared hospitals and communities responding in ways that aid transmission , such as re-using needles , traditional burial practices such as embalming bodies , and treating the sick without taking appropriate precautions . There have been major efforts since then to ensure medical facilities are better trained . You 'll see from news reports that even in the countries most effected , the numbers of people affected are ( so far , touch wood ) low . If you were going to one of the country where there were some cases of ebola and you were worried , these might be sensible precautions : Take similar precautions as you would to avoid HIV infection ( no unsafe sex or shared needle use , avoid other exchanges of bodily fluids ) Consider additional precautions to avoid exchanging sweat . Maybe skip the gym . If you 're exceptionally worried or there were reports of medium-sized outbreaks while there , and you wanted to feel like you were being extra-cautious : you might want to make more effort to maintain personal space and maybe avoid skin contact such as shaking hands , you might want to wash your hands more than usual and consider using <URL> physical contact with people or things that have been in close contact to other people before touching food or your face , ... but even these might be a bit excessive unless you were right in an outbreak , in which case there would probably be an evacuation plan . I 'll end with a quote in the USA Today article <URL> from a director of virology at the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit : " You probably could n't get Ebola if you went to Conakry [ capital of Guinea ] now if you tried " If it was me , I 'd keep an eye on the news , and I 'd take normal health precautions , but would n't let worries spoil the trip .
Being the FL1 a regional train operated by Ferrovie dello Stato , I would trust their official FS site more than the ATAC journey planner ( or Google for that matter ) . <URL> These are ( ordered by closest distance from the airport ) : Roma Trastevere Roma Ostiense Roma Tuscolana Roma Tiburtina Quoting from the linked FS page : FL1 REGIONAL TRAIN to and From Rome/Fiumicino Airport With trains departing every 15 minutes Trenitalia 's FL1 regional train takes you from Leonardo da Vinci Airport to the main train stations in Rome ( Trastevere , Ostiense , Tuscolana and Tiburtina ) . The train also stops in many other important stations in Rome , and travels as far as Fara Sabina/Orte . It would therefore seem that to date the FL1 train does not stop at Roma Termini . <URL> Below is a map of the regional train network , courtesy of Wikimedia : <URL>
I guess while pens in theory could be used to cause pain , as could some types of shoes or household keys , and they 're allowed . I assure you , you 'll have zero problem taking an ordinary ballpoint or ink pen ( or pencil ) on a flight - unless you have some weird pen in the shape of a dagger or something :)
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
You can always apply . There is no specific delay between applications in the UK or Schengen area ( even to the same country , let alone to different countries ) and no automatic ban or anything like that following a mere refusal . However , you may want to be careful to address the problem raised in the UK visa refusal because , even though some of the rules and guidelines are slightly different , Schengen consulates tend to have similar concerns .
Considering champagne is a non-flammable liquid , the TSA apparently <URL> as checked luggage . And this does n't really surprise me . A bottle of Pepsi , deodorant spray and even compressed gas canisters are all ok to check in .
I think what you want is covered in the Frequently Asked Questions about Advance fares section of the National Rail Enquiries ( internal ) Knowledgebase ( iKB ) , which is n't available online officially . However , one of the nice members of Rail UK Forums <URL> in response to a <URL> Q25 - Can a passenger with an Advance ticket travel on an earlier connecting train ? A : Yes if it is non-reservable , no if it is reservable . An exception that benefits passengers : Where Virgin Trains East Coast is a connecting TOC from Stevenage via London and vice versa , e.g. " AP London-Reading " , or " VWC &amp; Connections " , Virgin Trains East Coast waives the need to travel on the exact Virgin Trains East Coast train booked on this relatively short journey Stevenage ↔ Kings Cross , even though retail systems will force a reservation to be made . So , it all depends on if seat reservations would 've been possible on the connecting train you want to take . If there are seat reservations possible , then an advanced ticket is only valid where you have a reservation on that service . Where no seat reservations are possible , a &amp; Connections ticket is Checking easily which trains can and ca n't have seats reserved is probably a different question ... If you ask staff at the station about a specific train they can tell you though !
The <URL> " allows citizens of participating countries * to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of 90 days or less " . ( Ireland IS a participating country ) . Each traveller must have authorisation under <URL> . It costs US$ 14 , and the <URL> has all the information you would require . It takes up to 3 days to process , is valid for 2 years , and you need to have it approved before you leave for the US . It 's all done online . ( - and is fairly simple - I 've done it twice before , myself )
<URL> picking up at various points in Bloomington and arriving at the airport at 6:10 am . That 's pretty tight but it may be doable if you can check in and get through security quickly . <URL> has a 6:30 am scheduled arrival , but that 's certainly not enough time . It seems that Uber is also available .
end question
start question
Is it true that I should delete search history and cookies when booking flights online ?
While there does n't seem to be hard evidence of airlines offering different prices bases on cookie/IP identification of site visitor , the possibility of this should n't be dismissed either , especially considering visitor tracking methods employed by advertisers on the internet , for example . Using Incognito mode on your browser , preferably coupled with an ad-blocking add-on , would be useful . VPN service might be of help too . ( Yes , I 'm a bit on the paranoid side , but that never hurted anyone )
If you go to <URL> and enter the airline and flight number , you can select a particular day , then select the event timeline tab . On that , you may see an aircraft equipment designation ( AEQP ) , e.g. 77W ( Boeing 777-300ER ) for QR557 yesterday and 788 ( Boeing 787-800 ) for the QR1369 . You can see this for a few days prior to today but have to register an account to see earlier dates . For future dates , you can usually see what the anticipated aircraft is when you allocate your seat or buy your ticket , but this is subject to change . Viewing the flights on your route might show you how likely the anticipated aircaft is .
Round-the-world fares do exist . Most airline alliances and occasionally single airlines offer around the world fares . <URL> ( includes British Airways , American Airlines , Cathay Pacfic ) <URL> ( includes Lufthansa , United ) <URL> It can be very cost effective , especially for premium class ( business and first class fares ) . There are limits on all of them , usually they prevent backtracking across a continent , a limited number of segments , and only visiting each continent once ( once you leave you do n't go back ) . <URL> is a forum with a lot of trip reports done on RTW fares ( check the trip reports forum ) . In response to your comment , usually if you arrive at one airport and depart from another then that counts as an overland segment and counts towards your ticket usage . For example , if you flew from New York to Berlin , took the train to Madrid , and then flew out from Madrid to Cairo , three segments would be used : New York - Berlin Berlin - Madrid ( overland segment ) Madrid - Cairo It does n't matter if you fly or not , it still takes away from your overall segment limit . A segment refers to one specific flight .
It turns out one can view their bus ticket on <URL> : Enter the flight confirmation number along with the email used on Wizzair.com to reveal the E-ticket : I think they 're supposed to send out a notification 3 days before the flight takes place , but there 's no need to wait for it . If the ticket does n't show up on P-Airbus . com , it 's possible to receive it by contacting the transfer service support at wizzair@wizztransfer.com .
I just checked airbnb.com and found accommodation for under 40 euros in August . It seems , indeed , that there are either very few or no hostels in Cannes , if a hostel is an accommodation with dorms . I suppose flashy Cannes does not have much of an interest in the lower end of the tourism industry . Nearby Nice does have hostels , or rather , accommodations with dorms , but these are not too cheap , starting at roughly 30 euros per night per bed .
It 's only larger stores that offer this , but you can always ask . I found a <URL> where someone claimed the Apple stores do offer tax free purchases .
There are trains between these stations once in every two to three hours.You can show up at the railway station and get a ticket . Buses are more frequent and I would suggest that since the journey is not long .
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
Since you 're not using an agency , you 'll need a credit card with a big enough limit . In order to get the confirmation in order , they will need to get the charge approved and posted to your account . When you cancel , you 'll get a credit from them . Time it so that the debit and credit fall within the same billing cycle to avoid having to make a payment or accrue interest . Cancel well in advance of the flight , do n't check in , and use the same website you used to book the ticket . Booking with a Chinese carrier can be expensive . You 're getting the money back ( probably ) , but there will be a sizable charge ( could easily be several thousand RMB ) posted to your card . You may also incur foreign transaction or currency conversion fees from your card provider , quite possibly both coming and going , and these will not be refunded . <URL> will let you cancel full fare economy class tickets for free , as long as you do n't wait until the last minute to do it . I put together a sample ticket on their site from Ho Chi Minh to Guangzhou , leaving May 7 and returning May 8 . Full fare economy price : ~ 8500CNY ( ~ 1400USD ) . To see the details of their cancellation policy , you have to actually select an itinerary through the booking interface , because the refund policies vary by ticket type . 1.3 Rebooking Fee ( per change ) : free to change/rebook . Passengers will also need to pay the difference in fare ( if any ) . For tickets booked on Air China official website , rebooking can be done through the official website or 95583 . For tickets booked through other channels like Taobao flagship store , rebooking can be done through 95583 only . [ 95583 is a special service number you can call only via a Chinese mobile carrier . ] 1.6 Refund fees ( children 's ticket are subject to the same standard that apply to adult tickets ) : Free to refund . For refunds of partially used tickets , the refund amount will be calculated after deducting the fare and taxes corresponding to the flight segment ( s ) used . <URL> ( emphasis added ) : 10.3 Voluntary Refunds 10.3.1 If you are entitled to a refund of your Ticket for reasons other than those set out in 10.2 , the amount of the refund shall be : 10.3.1.1 if no portion of the Ticket has been used , an amount equal to the fare paid , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees ; 10.3.1.2 if a portion of the Ticket has been used , the refund will be an amount equal to the difference between the fare paid and the applicable fare for travel between the points for which the Ticket has been used , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees . 10.5 Right to Refuse Refund 10.5.1 We may refuse a refund where application is made after the expiry of the validity of the Ticket . 10.5.2 We may refuse a refund on a Ticket which has been presented to us , or to Government officials , as evidence of intention to depart from a country , unless you establish to our satisfaction that you have permission to remain in the country or that you will depart from that country by another carrier or another means of transport . That last bit is most likely intended for trying to cancel the return trip after arriving in China , but could technically be employed in your case . The Air China website is actually quite good as Chinese e-commerce platforms go . To cancel , <URL> , click the cancel tab , enter your information , and confirm through . If there 's some problem with the site , it should n't be an issue getting English language <URL> , but you may need to make an international call as I do n't know if the <URL> have English speaking reps. You can probably also cancel by logging in and viewing your details , but I ca n't verify that at this time . For a much lesser charge , ITA Matrix lists China Southern as the cheapest carrier at ~ 7m VND ( ~ 325 USD ) ( same dates and airports ) . <URL> does n't list anything terribly specific either way about cancellations , though it does sound relatively reasonable . After actually picking out an itinerary on their site , I was able to find this ( translation by Google ; no link as it 's JSP generated ) : Cancel Totally unused tickets Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 20.00 ( usd ) . Partially used ticket Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 40.00 ( usd ) . <URL> . They 're a reputable site for English language booking of transportation within China . The copyright notice at the bottom says 2010 , so I do n't know if the data is out of date . According to them , most of the carriers charge a 5 % cancellation fee assuming you cancel well in advance and are flying a full class economy fare . Discounted fares have much steeper cancellation penalties . I have not vetted most of this information , but it matches my experiences with Air China and China Eastern . I also do n't cancel flights much , so take that for what it 's worth .
If you buy any SIM card in China , you will have access restrictions . If you buy a prepaid card in China or Japan , you will not be able to roam data in another country for any reasonable amount of nmoney . The reason is that the vast majority of the customers want to buy a card only for that market . Ironically , you will have more luck abroad to buy such a card . Regarding the international roaming for example , you can <URL> for 8 pounds a day . Regarding the firewall , you will not get any guarantee that it will work . I use a <URL> and can somehow access all normally blocked websites when roaming in China , but no provider will advertise this at the risk of getting blocked . So if you can not find an offer abroad , you will have to buy one in each country , and chances are that you will not be able to circumvent the firewall . Unless you get a VPN service and connect through it .
In some airline examples , it 's only when you get to check in - either online or in person , that the passport details are requested . Before then you 'd receive only a booking reference number , and you may be asked for your name and other identifying details ( as you 've stated Expedia did ) . The booking number is enough to confirm it was your ticket , and at check-in , the passport details will be entered , either by you or the airline staff at the counter .
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
<URL> lets you do this . Not your average hotel search engine like <URL> but plenty of options there .
An " Opaque " booking is one where you do n't know the exact details of what you 're booking until after you 've made the booking . The most common form of opaque bookings are for hotels , but they also exist for flights . There two general formats of booking sites for opaque hotels - those that work on a " bidding " concept , and those that have a fixed price . <URL> was the first ( and still best known ) of the " bidding " types of sites . For their bidding site , you specify an exact date range , a general vicinity where you want to stay , a star range ( eg , 3 star or higher ) and a price . If your " bid " matches something they have available then you will " win " that hotel - however you will not be given an exact details of the hotel ( including the name or exact location ) until after you 've placed your bid - and by that stage you are not able to back out of the booking . Fixed price sites include <URL> Hidden Hotels , <URL> " Wot hotel ? " , <URL> " Top Secret Hotels " , <URL> Unpublished Rate hotels , and many more . With these you are shown details of specific hotels , but without the exact hotel name , location or amenities . eg , you might be told it 's a 3.5 star hotels on the Las Vegas Strip with a pool . Sometimes you can reverse engineer these descriptions back to a specific hotel ( eg , for many countries simply Googleing the description from Wotif 's hotels will let you work out the exact hotel ! ) , but more freqently you are not given enough details to do so . For both bidding and fixed price , the moment you make the booking you are given the details of the hotel - including name , address , etc. . From that point you ca n't generally make any changes to the booking or cancel it - you 'll be charged the moment you make the booking and it 's non-refundable . Almost without exception , booking a hotel via an opaque method will result in you paying less , but with the uncertainly that you do n't fully know what you 're going to get . You will also normally not earn any form of loyalty points/status when booking via an opaque channel ( ie , frequent flyer points , hotel points , etc ) . There 's a good explanation on why deals such as this exist in the answers to <URL> . There are a number of web forums , such as <URL> , where people share tips for booking opaque hotels , including details of prices paid and hints to help maps descriptions to specific hotels .
If you are a foreigner then it is ok , you can show them or hide them no one will actually care . It is not something common there for middle easterners to have but people do not judge foreigners for having or showing them . Regarding Egypt in particular , it is common for criminals and people who been prisoned to have them , so that will be the first impression . The answer in that question was meant for a person who wants to blend in and look like Egyptian . But for a tourist it is totally fine to show them . I live in Saudi Arabia which is considered to be the most conservative country in the middle east and locals do not make tattoos at all but we totally accept foreigners with tattoos like they do not have it ...
As far as I know , no . TMN provides several ways of <URL> when abroad . Of course some require that you have money in your account so I will not list them . You ca n't top up with credit card but you can request temporary credit to TMN . You can do this with <URL> . An alternative may be using the <URL> . You may ask a friend of yours to transfer money from his TMN account to yours . Note : All links are in portuguese . You may want to use google translate or a similar service if you do n't understand portuguese .
Adioso lets you search for any time . Additionally Skyscanner lets you search across an entire month . Generally Skyscanner has a better range . <URL> has a good overview of searching for a trip in this way .
Unless you 're completely fluent , you risk a miscommunication in a legal context . If you 're at all uncertain about communicating to them , you should ask for a translator . In your case , if you 're confident , there 's no harm in addressing them , but if they address you first in your language ( I 'm presuming English ) , it 's best to stick with that rather than changing . Your goal should generally be to only speak when spoken to , and to keep the conversation to a minimum . It 's more efficient for them , and prevents confusion overall .
In general the point of the medical component of travel insurance is to deal with acute treatement abroad and then if nessacery to transport you back home ( flying someone home on a stretcher is not cheap ) . Accidents do n't just happen when travelling , so if you feel the need for insurance against disablity caused by accidents then you should probablly look for something that will cover you all the time . It 's probablly also worth checking if any pension or life insurance policies you have include any cover for this .
None , if you 're looking only at major airlines . <URL> is a map showing non-stop Russian destinations reachable from Fairbanks , Alaska . Here 's <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . However <URL> operates for 8 weeks in the summer and for the fifth season this year , you can go from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk . You can also <URL> a flight with Bering Air , though it requires a 3 week <URL> and 2 weeks to process the request . There 's also <URL> which has flights from Anchorage to Petropavlovsk in the summer .
end question
start question
Is there a published schedule for Disney World 's extended opening hours ?
Here is the schedule for the rest of 2012 , which I got from <URL> . It was apparently compiled from <URL> . According to the page you linked to , " Upon check-in at a Walt Disney World Resort hotel , Guests will receive a schedule detailing when each park offers Extra Magic Hours " so if any last minute changes have occurred , that will be the most accurate . But the information below should allow you to start planning .
Most of the major travel websites such as <URL> and <URL> will allow you to search multiple rental car companies in one search . My personal preference is <URL> who display the results in a clean table of company v 's car size . Where rental cars differ from airlines ( and thus services like " matrix " that you 're referring to from ITA Software ) is that they work far less on published prices , and far more on discounts , " corporate " codes , and coupons . The rates you 're going to get from any of the search engines above are generally not going to be as good as those that you 'll get directly from the rental car company using a discount code or a company code for something like AAA ( if you 're a member ) , your airlines Frequent Flyer program , or even just a promo code or coupon listed on the rental companies website ! Personally I will normally use Orbitz to get a general feel for which of the rental companies is cheaper for the dates I 'm after , and then head to those companies website and see if any coupons/AAA discount/etc will make the rate shown even cheaper . And remember , most rental car companies do not charge to change/cancel bookings ( except for pre-paid rates ) , and prices do change over time , so re-checking your rates as you get nearer to the booking can save you some real money !
<URL> : ( Updated : 2015/03/18 ) Visas are not required of aliens , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport . No visa is required for ordinary passport holders from Singapore , Brunei and Japan to visit China for up to 15 days for business , sightseeing , visiting relatives and friends or transit . As of March 2015 , citizens of 51 countries may stay visa free in Shanghai , Beijing , Guangzhou , Chengdu , Chongqing , Dalian , Shengyang and Harbin for 72 hours while transiting to their destinations .
Yes , there is a code for the Bay Area : QSF , which covers SFO , OAK and SJC . These are called " Metropolitan area airport codes " , and <URL> . However , there 's an important caveat : unlike " NYC " , this particular code is not actually an IATA code , it 's just convenient shorthand for some airline booking systems ( GDS ) . " QSF " will thus work on Sabre and ITA , but not other systems , where " QSF " may also be an obscure airport in Algeria . Wikipedia has a ( partial ) list of bona fide <URL> .
I 'll answer as a father . I assume you are not stingy and you are willing to make your little boy happy . Also I assume you are talking about the US embassy , you have n't mentioned which embassy but it 's the one that comes to my mind when you said Grosvenor Square . Hamleys My children feel in heaven when I take them there . The shop is n't available everywhere in the UK like Toys R Us for example so there is a good chance that your kid never been there before . <URL> <URL> On your way back to Paddington stop by <URL> at 121b Edgware Road W2 2QZ and by him some amazing <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> , For most resorts , the ski and snowboard season in Japan generally starts around mid-December and goes through until around early April . Opening of course depends on the level of snow that accumulates at a particular resort , and some resorts do actually open as early as late October ( " early skiing " ) and can continue to operate until mid-May ( for " spring skiing " ) , usually with the help of snowmaking machines . They <URL> 88 resorts in Nagano so you could use that as a starting point to find resort web sites for more details and predictions about this year . I know that Canadian resorts will have a planned opening date on their website before they are actually open .
I 'm not sure why they do n't just post the bus schedule , but I guess the exact times depend on the flight schedules of multiple airlines any given day , so it might change frequently enough that having a set schedule would be impractical . There are buses to basically all flights . Generally the first departs around 5:30 to the airport and the last returns 22:00 back to Paris . The buses are assigned to specific flights so you can check the suggested time for your trip , or simply leave " All destinations/origins " selected to the full schedule for that day on the <URL> .
Yes , bags are sold specifically for this purpose . Features may include : being waterproof having lots of compartments to hold many small bottles ( or one compartment with various elastics and such to hold small bottles sort of upright ) having at least one compartment to hold tiny little things like bandaids and safety pins having a hook so you can hang it up in a small bathroom Examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> The magic word is " toiletries " , " wash " , " Dopp " or " washing " bag or kit ( depending on where you live and to some extent your gender , though the bags are generally gender neutral . ) Search with that and you should find a ton . Or go into a department store and take a look in the luggage section .
According to <URL> ( Twin City 's Slovakian partner ) : Selling points : the tickets in the FLORA TOUR Headquarters on Kúpeľná Street ( Bratislava ) , in the FLORA TOUR Office in the Passenger Port ( Bratislava ) or in FLORA TOUR Office at Schwedenplatz ( Vienna ) . In the Kiosk under Nový most ( Bratislava ) it is possible to make a reservation . The exact location of these selling points is available <URL> .
I tend to use <URL> to look up historical data . Their main mode is kind of interactive browser ( which is fun to play with by itself ) , but they also generate averages reports for all places their system knows about . It 's a little hard to pinpoint accurate location from your description , since Basque Country seems to more eagerly jump to Spain parts in geolocation . Do n't forget that while we think of weather data as related to certain area , it 's actually gathered in very specific points with weather stations ( often airports ) . I got report for <URL> , while searching for it there . You might want to browse around to refine for something closer to the area you are interested in . Their reports have numerous graphs ( temperature , humidity , clouds , winds , etc ) . For temperature I like their " fraction of time " visualizations :
When power outlets were first installed on airliners , they used a special adapter called <URL> , which looked like this : The airlines obviously thought that frequent flyers would be happy to buy a new kind of adapter for all their gizmos . This turned out not to be entirely true ... nobody wanted to buy these new stupid adapters , and the airlines eventually realized that it was n't going to work . So they are now installing " normal " power outlets ... often special receptacles with all kinds of holes that can handle just about any kind of plug , US , European , or British . If they already installed the EmPower thing , they 're regretting it and replacing it with standard receptacles as fast as they can . There is no standard rule to decide if your flight is going to have power , except for the following vague rules of thumb : The higher your class of service ( First vs. Coach ) the more likely you are to have power The longer the flight , the more likely you are to have power The canonical way to find out is by finding out the exact aircraft you 'll be flying on , and looking it up on <URL> to see where the power outlets are and whether they are EmPower or AC . Most airline websites will also have details on where power is available .
Why yes there is . <URL> . You enter your nationality , destination , and any visas you already hold , and it will tell you if you need a transit visa or not . It also includes instructions for applying for one . HOWEVER : There have been changes taking effect Dec 1 2014 to which countries ' nationals require transit visas . Regardless of the link above , <URL> . Procedures remain the same . Beware that the exemption conditions for visa-less landside transit are slightly different from the exceptions for Direct Airside Transit . As of this writing , the page linked above erroneously refers to a document describing the landside exemptions even from its section about DATV ; refer to the <URL> for the actual DATV exemptions . As a summary ( but check for exceptions ) : You must arrive and depart by air , and your outbound flight must be booked and confirmed . You do n't need a transit visa if you would not need a visa for a tourist visit to the UK . A transit visa comes in two forms : Direct Airside Transit Visa ( DATV ) which is limited to 24 hours and you must remain ' airside ' ( i.e. can not pass through immigration ) and a Visitor in Transit Visa , which is valid for 48 hours and allows you to change terminals or airports . You must have all the necessary documentation for your final destination , including any visas . You are exempt from needing a transit visa under certain conditions . These can be found at <URL> . As of 25 June 2015 , the conditions are : You might be eligible for ' transit without visa ' if : you arrive and depart by air [ you ] have a confirmed onward flight that leaves on the day you arrive or before midnight on the day after you arrive [ you ] have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : you 're travelling to ( or on part of a reasonable journey to ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and it 's less than 6 months since you last entered that country with a valid entry visa you have a residence permit issued by Australia or New Zealand you have a common format residence permit issued by an European Economic Area ( EEA ) country or Switzerland you have a residence permit issued by Canada issued after 28 June 2002 you have a uniform format category D visa for entry to a country in the EEA or Switzerland you have an Irish biometric visa and an onward flight ticket to the Republic of Ireland you 're travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it 's less than 3 months since you were last given permission , on the basis of holding a valid Irish biometric visa , to land or be in Ireland you have a valid USA permanent residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 you have a valid USA I-551 Temporary Immigrant visa issued by the USA ( a wet-ink stamp version will not be accepted ) you have an expired USA I-551 Permanent Residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 , with a valid I-797 letter authorising extension you have a valid standalone US Immigration Form 155A/155B issued by the USA ( attached to a sealed brown envelope ) You wo n't be able to transit without a visa if a Border Force officer decides you do n't qualify under the immigration rules . You can <URL> before you travel if you 're unsure whether you qualify for transiting without a visa . If you need more information than is provided by this website you will need to check with your airline or <URL> . The Home Office 's <URL> also provides some guidance on the subtler points of the rules ( it 's intended for professionals , not passengers , but does explain in great details when a visa is or is not required ) . Changes to the rules activating on 1 December 2014 A Statutory Instrument entitled " The Immigration ( Passenger Transit Visa ) Order 2014 " will make large portions of the above text obsolete . Please refer to the instrument itself at <URL> until further guidance becomes available . The government 's interactive page , which leads the user through a series of questions will take some time to sync up with the legislation ( if ever ) and should NOT be relied upon after the 2014 order takes effect . Note on UK Border Control In London Heathrow , if you fly from outside the UK or Ireland and leave to another country ( neither UK nor Ireland ) , it is possible to transit without entering the UK and going through UK Border Control , you can stay airside . There is no hotel airside , so <URL> , you have to go through UK Border Control . There is a <URL> available on Heathrow airport website . Update 25 July 2015 : Visa Seniority People on any kind of valid UK visa that is senior to a transit visa do not need an additional visa . It means the person ca
As of January 2015 : Lounge = no , basic refreshments = yes There are two pertinent BAEC FlyerTalk threads covering this : <URL> <URL> Based on that , until the new terminal building is finished at some point in the next year , there is no lounge that BA is using . ( BA are n't using the Swissport one ) . On arriving at the terminal , you 'll clear first security , then get to checkin . After checking , you 'll then go through another set of security . Finally , after that , you 'll be directed to a waiting area at the gate . If you 're flying in First or Club World , or have suitable BA / OneWorld status , you 'll be directed into a different seating area . In here you 'll apparently find a trestle table with some refreshments on . Looks to be snacks , some soft drinks , some booze , and some newspapers . You can find photos of what it was like a few months ago in the threads
There is no general VAT in the US but various sales taxes , which means that there is n't a single tax rate that shops could easily include in all prices . Depending on the location , there could be a sales tax from the state , county , city or even other institutions ( transport authorities , etc. ) so you can not even set a price and print labels for a state or a metropolitan area , let alone nationwide . Also , displaying lower prices is generally advantageous so as long as they do n't have to do it , it would seem retailers have very little incentive to figure a way to deal with all this . Even if one would consider doing it ( which is not the case as far as I know ) , they would just make themselves look bad compared to the competition . To use an analogy , even when several parties really wish to reduce their weapon stockpiles , it 's too risky for one of them to disarm unilaterally and find itself alone without weapons when the others still have them ( or in this case , display higher after-tax prices when everybody else advertises with before-tax prices ) .
Well the largest swing in the world is the <URL> in Queenstown , New Zealand . The stats : Swing Stats : The World 's Biggest Swing 300metre Arc 120m rope length ( That 's longer than a rugby field ! ) 160m above the river Swing options : Forwards , Backwards , Tandem , truck 'n trailer , 69 , back2back , Honeymoon &amp; much more . Release options : Leave it up to the Ops Crew , let your mates take charge and use the remote or release yourself ! So if that does n't meet your requirements , then you 're probably going to have to rely on once-off custom swings like the one you mentioned .
If your inbound flight lands on time , let 's make a rough calculation : 20 minutes to exit the plane / airport ( could be more during peak hours ) 30 minutes to get to Munich downtown ( again could be more during peak hours ) 30 minutes to get back to the airport 1h00 at the airport for the security checks So this leaves you approximately 3h00 in Munich . But you need to take into consideration few points : I took an optimal timing ( ie landing on time , no commuting issue and minimum time at the airport ) . If you plan to exit the airport , I would suggest you to take on your luggage with you because if for any reason you are n't able to take the second flight , then the company will have to take your luggage out of the plane ( which is a pain for them ) and then you 'll also miss your luggage if you have to stay overnight in Munich . So you are n't forced to take your luggage with you but I would recommend you to do so ...
Oh , I basically did this in July , from mid-afternoon until late evening when my flight out happened . Assuming you do n't want to just grab a cab and go down to the waterfront ( it 's nice and there are cafes and the market ) , the airport does n't have much . At all . Landside You have a choice of two Costa Coffees , and a small restaurant place with some Indian-like food ( much Omani cuisine is inspired by Indian food ) . It 's nothing fancy . That 's it . The rest of the shops are cellphone sim card stalls , and care-hire , basically . Airside Going through check-in , you get to go upstairs , and this is bigger - but now you 're going to have Wendy 's , Subway , and that style - plus one small restaurant that serves shish kabob and wraps . And souvenir shops and exchange places . It was pretty limited . They also claimed to have free wifi , but it was n't working when I was there . All day . My recommendation - landside , get into that restaurant ( it 's opposite the small Costa ) , and settle in at one of the booths . Each booth has a powerpoint , and you can just chill and watch movies on your device or listen to music , while people watching a bit and occasionally buying a drink . Otherwise though , no , I did a lot of laps walking , but there 's really not much else to see . If you can , you 're far better off adventuring outside , even if for a short time . Town is pretty close - go see the new mosque at night , it 's quite a sight !
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
Each of the 3 major global airline alliances have some form of " North American Air Pass " : <URL> <URL> <URL> These passes all have extensive conditions - generally they can only be purchased by a non-North American resident , and must be purchased in conjunction with an international airfare into North America . The specific conditions vary a little between the different alliances - the links above give the information on each .
I visited the NEXUS office at the YVR airport and was told : There is no penalty Do not use your card for now but it indeed did n't expire . Your passport is not enough , you need your citizenship certificate as well . ( Doh ! ) You do not need to schedule an appointment for this just go to the enrollment centre .
end question
start question
Malaria pills needed for jungle trip in Chiang Mai ?
No , they 're not really needed . Thailand is close to ( if not quite ) malaria-free , and the neighboring countries are generally considered low-risk as well . If you take sufficient precautions while trekking ( bug spray , long pants and shirts , sleeping in tents with netting , etc ) , malaria prophylaxis would be overkill . And since personal anecdotes are more valuable than <URL> , I spent ~ 1.5 years in Thailand and did a few treks around Chiang Mai . I did n't take malaria pills , I do n't know anybody who did , and I 've never heard of anybody I know getting malaria in Thailand ( although I did hear the odd third-hand report ) . I did ( and would ) take malaria pills when traveling in tropical Africa though . See also : <URL>
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
Without getting into the philosophical paradoxes inherent in asking about " the most expensive free trip " , I 'm pretty sure the longest duration &amp; distance that you can pull off with an Opal card in a single day without backtracking is Goulburn , NSW to Scone , NSW by train : <URL> This clocks in at a cool 513.54 km per the <URL> and would take you just short of 8 hours ( 7h 57min , to be precise ) with a single connection at Central . Farewise , though , any distance beyond 65 km is charged the same , so it 's just $ 8.30 for the whole trip . Since Opal cards max out at $ 15/day , it 's not possible to get more financial benefit than this out of any itinerary . Because you 're charged every time you transfer , it 's quite easy to hit the $ 15 mark , even on much shorter journeys ( say , Circular Quay-Manly return at $ 14.36 plus any trip anywhere ) .
With regards to Canada , you are fine . Italians do not need a visa and your passport is fine . For the layover in New York you will need an ESTA from the Americans . You will also need an " e-Passport " if yours was issued after 10/25/06 . See further here : <URL>
In the Netherlands , there are different rail cards , some group discounts and special offers but no discount for multiple/return travel . A day return costs exactly the same as a single . Except for international trains like Thalys , available fare do not change over time and reserving a specific seat is not possible so absolutely no reason not to buy single tickets at the last minute if you want to .
Cypress Mountain has announced that it is opening November 14 , 2012 , though it is only at higher elevations with artificial snow , and not suitable for beginners . ( In 2011 , opening day was <URL> . ) Grouse Mountain , reachable by TransLink bus 232 or 236 , opens <URL> . Whistler , reachable by private coach , opens [ November 17 , 2012 ] .
If you intend to stay in UK and Hungary more than a couple of days in each , you 'd need to buy a package for each country separately . The global services rates you cite are actually pretty competitive , if I compare with what I 'm charged for roaming in countries in Europe other than my own . I 'd just try to reduce my voice usage as much as possible , and look at a VoIP solution instead . Free Wi-Fi is not difficult to find in UK and Hungary ( obviously depending whether you spend your time in large cities or not ) . Apart from that , it 's best that you shop around yourself -- recommendation questions are actually off-topic for this site . Look at <URL> and check the available operators and conditions in each country . Check also <URL> for some more information . Skype charges $ 0.026 / minute for calling US numbers , and you can get a monthly subscription to the amount of 60 minutes for as little as $ 1.09 / month ( see <URL> ) . These prices are hard to beat . You can use <URL> ( using your Skype credit to access otherwise paid-for Wi-Fi networks ) . Granted , the Skype Wi-Fi rates are extortionate , but are per-minute rather than per-traffic , so they actually might work well enough depending on your use case . It will be certainly cheaper than $ 0.25 / MB , though .
Nope - no transit visa required for a 1h40 transit in Kuwait en route to the USA as an Indian citizen . / 07APR16 / 1828 UTC National India ( IN ) Transit Kuwait ( KW ) Destination USA ( US ) TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours . In case of transit connections beyond 8 hours , passengers must remain airside and be accommodated in the airport transit hotel . Source : <URL>
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
In general when you book your flights all as one booking , your bags will be checked through all the way . There are a few exceptions : in some places you need to interact with your bags as part of clearing customs into an area before catching a connecting flight . For example , if after coming into Toronto on the way home you had a connection to Calgary , you would need to take your bags through Canadian customs before making that connection . occasionally you will be sold a combination of tickets where the airlines do n't interline bags properly . You can assume you wo n't see your bag until you reach your final destination , but double check this with the checkin counter when you hand it over . " That 's checked right through to Cairo , right ? I wo n't need to claim it in Frankfurt ? " In my experience airlines tell you whenever there is an exception to this rule . They tell you at checkin and they tell you again on the plane . There will also be signs at the airport if you need to do something unusual .
You 're <URL> to pass Canadian customs , so no need to pick up and recheck your bag , they 'll be <URL> to New York . However you do need to pass the immigration requirements to transit through Canada . Assuming you have a Dutch passport , you <URL> . After that , you have to pass American immigration officials ( because of pre-clearance at Pearson , but this means you 've already done immigration once you arrive in NY ! ) then security once more . Phew ! Sounds like a lot , but in practice this should n't take very long
No , you should not have to re-apply . From the <URL> Website : Your ESTA authorization is generally valid for multiple trips over a period of two years ( starting the date that you are approved ) or until your passport expires , whichever comes first * . This means that as long as you received an ESTA authorization to travel , you do not have to reapply during the validity period . If you are concerned , and assuming you will exit immigration and stay in the US before boarding your connecting flight , you can retrieve your application to check it 's validity and update your US address if necessary <URL> .
I traveled all the way through the USA from the east coast to the west coast , by car and RV . I thought about getting a UMTS / LTE stick for my Notebook , too . But there really was n't any need for this . You can get FREE WIFI almost everywhere : Coffee Shops ( Starbucks , etc. ) Fast food Restaurants ( Pizza Hut , McDonalds , KFC , etc. ) Camp grounds Hotels Shops / Malls Libraries In rare cases you get WIFI access even here : Cinemas Grocery Stores Gas Stations I can also tell you , that the UMTS internet coverage is n't that good when you plan to visit national parks or other nature reserves . Whilst driving through the less populated middle of the USA there are times when you even do n't get your cell phone working -- > NO Service ! So if you really feel the need for uninterupted internet access , you should carefully check the coverage of your Mobile-ISP
If you want to experience perpetual summer , starting in Paris in October and then going to eastern Europe is not the best of ideas . And , depending on where in Turkey you plan to go , winters can get quite cold . Parts of Ethiopia have perpetual cold nights , any time of the year . Northern Iran can be very cold in winter . Furthermore , based on your description , you seem to plan on getting to South America in the middle of the year , which is the southern hemisphere 's winter . South American winter ai n't comparable to , say , central Asia 's , but particularly the south ( of South America ) can get very cold . And plenty of the beach resorts on the continent 's west coast wo n't be open for swimming . If , on the other hand , your only option is to go to the US from Paris , you 'd head into North American winter , which can also be pretty harsh . So , if you are flexible in your journey , but not in your dates , and assuming you will be traveling for about a year , I 'd say your best bet would be something like ... Paris - South America - North America ( at the start of spring ) - Asia - Middle East ( at the start of autumn ) - Europe .
Sleeping in airports is not uncommon when transiting through . Quite a few people stretch out and nap while waiting their next flight . But this is primarily in the transit areas , security often frowns on folks sleeping in the public area around the check in counters ( otherwise homeless folks would flock to the heated airport lobbies armed with a second hand suitcase ) . Both the Mecure Schipol and Yotel are inside the international transit area , so you ca n't access them until you check in for your flight . The Yotel was closed last September during renovation , not sure if it has reopened yet . The best bet is to book one of the other three on that website , since they are all within walking distance . Or look on a booking website like Agoda and pick a hotel that offers free airport shuttles .
We took a trip around the world in 2010 , spanning N. America , Asia , Australia/New Zealand and Tahiti . Anecdotal Experience : For our itinerary , it was impossible to pick an airline covering all our destinations . Even though RTW tickets are sold through alliances ( OneWorld , Star , etc. ) , unfortunately , there is no one alliance that covers it all . Also it was less expensive for us to book tickets individually , across and within continents . For flights within , check if there are low cost carriers . The big caveat , though , is luggage allowance , which may be an issue for you if you are packing for 10 months ;) Bottom Line : It all DEPENDS on your choice of destinations . Conversely , if you are travelling in a higher class ( Business/First ) , RTW ticketing offers good pricing .
Yes , this has been standard procedure for banking in the US since about 2002 . Do n't worry ; just make sure your bank is FDIC accredited . Recent US laws require Social Security Numbers . <URL> <URL> <URL>
You can still travel by cargo ship between China and Thailand , but it is limited to 2 foreigners per ship and takes some 24 hours , as they go slow and anchor for the night along the way . This method is basically catch as catch can . The captains wait until they have a decent load then sail . So it is not something you can book in advance or check availability for . I do n't think the faster boat has resumed the service , that was stopped after the two crews were killed on Chinese freighters a few years back . This was run by Mekong Delta Travel in Chiang Rai and last I heard all their boats were still offered for charter service only . Note : my information sources are people in the travel industry , not easily found on the web .
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
So , first off , this is n't always the case . Point to point rentals can be cheaper in some circumstance . Especially if you 're taking a car from an area with low demand to a return lot with high demand . You can get some great deals this way seasonally , but they 're hard to shop for . That said , the reason it 's generally cheaper to return the car to where you got it is because if you do n't , somebody else will generally have to . Point to point rentals are rare , so when they happen , it throws off the very carefully managed inventories of multiple rental lots . Suddenly , one lot is short a car , and another lot has a surplus . In order to rebalance things , they either need to hope somebody wants to reverse your itinerary ( unlikely ) , incentivize somebody to do so and lose money offering them a bargain , or pay an employee to transport the vehicle .
end question
start question
Getting to the Taj Mahal from Delhi and back ?
There are tons of trains running between various stations in Delhi and Agra , just do a search on the <URL> . However , Indian Railways does n't believe in regular schedules or short routes , so most of all of them run on long , weird , multi-day routes , and are consequently liable to be delayed , sometimes hours , sometimes days . Many trains also do not have anything approaching comfortable seating by Western standards , and are horribly slow because they stop at every cow shed along the way . Hence your page 's recommendation for trains that start in or near Delhi , which are pretty much guaranteed to be on time , and are " superfast " so they get to Agra in a reasonable amount of time ( do n't expect a bullet train ... ) . The other option is the bus , there are lots more and they are reasonable point-to-point . However , they 're subject to the crawling horror of Delhi traffic and the no-holds-barred mayhem on the highways , so <URL> . Despite some tough competition , Agra is quite possibly the most tout-infested city in India , you may find yourself wishing for a nice , heavy stick to beat off the " taxi sir " hordes that will accost you on the platform the moment you get off . Find and use the prepaid taxi stand at Agra Cantt , but on the way back from the Taj , you 'll have to hone your bargaining skills . And if you 're seriously considering walking the 4 mi between the two , I can only presume you have n't been to an Indian city yet ...
The non-flight option is bus/car &amp; train . You can get a bus or private car from Siem Reap to the border -- your hotel or any travel agent in Siem Reap will easily organize this . Once you cross the border you 'll need to get to the train station and get the train to Bangkok . If you book through an agency they may hand you off to someone on the other side of the border who 'll help with the rest of the journey . Or I 'm sure there 'll be people hanging around to help tourists get where they 're going ( standard warnings about getting scammed apply ) . Or you can do it yourself , get to the station and take the train to Bangkok and you should be able to buy tickets on the day , they should understand enough English for you to be able to communicate -- it 's a fairly common tourist route . Remember you 'll be in Thailand so you 'll need Thai money . I 've done it in the other direction as part of a tour and it 's a perfectly fine journey , do expect a fair bit of waiting around at the border , in stations etc. . Where decent shoes , I remember the border crossing and area around it being fairly dusty/muddy . But it 's easily doable in a day if you leave early morning . You 'll get to see a fair bit of countryside and you 'll be travelling with mostly locals . Note you will probably have to carry your suitcase around when switching between transport and doing the border crossing . More details and pictures , on <URL> Edited to add : This is n't the easiest way , flying is the easiest way . Also check the visa regulations for Thailand , I recall from a different you get less time to stay in the country if you enter via land and you may need to prove you have onward travel from Thailand within that time-limit . See this question for more : <URL>
This answer only deals with the US part . USDA regulations on Cut Flowers specifically exempts dried flowers : 7 CFR 319.74 Subpart -- Cut Flowers provides the following : restricts or prohibits importing fresh , cut flowers , but exempts dried , bleached , dyed , or chemically treated decorative plant materials from the definition of cut flowers Source : <URL> Dried plants are sometimes subject to restrictions , but only if they are listed explicitly : If a name is not listed in the reference table or the Index , that article is most likely merely subject to inspection -- that is , release it without a permit it if is free from plant pests . Source : <URL> Lavender is not listed , so I think it 's safe to assume that there are no restrictions on what you can bring back into the US with respect to agricultural regulations . As with all of these things , it 's always best to declare it though .
Can you go to the US as a tourist - yes , Will the past cause any problems - likely . Your early refused entry will be in the system and likely the CBP agent will see it on their screen when you are processed . You can expect a longer round of questions and probably secondary questioning ( ie away from the initial counter ) . But assuming you did n't make a scene at your earlier refusal and the reason was as innocent as paperwork not being in place , then they may well let you visit . But really it is up to the agent processing you , no guarantees .
From the Ukrainian point of view , <URL> in 2014 . As a result , transport options have been restricted from both the Ukrainian and the Russian side . In addition , it is now necessary to have a Russian visa ( or visa-free passport ) in order to access the Crimean territory . Flights In September 2015 , all flights between Russia/Crimea and Ukraine <URL> . So it would take at least two transfers from Kiev in order to reach Crimea : Bus It 's possible to take a <URL> from Kiev to Sevastopol for ~ 40 $ , however foreigners ( as in , everyone except Ukrainians ) now require a <URL> to cross the Ukraine/Crimea border : On September , 16 , 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed the Resolution No 722 , amending the Procedure for entry to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and exit from it regarding the entry to and exit from Crimea by foreign nationals , inter alia : Extract from the Para 3 of the Resolution : Foreign nationals can entry and exit from temporary occupied territory of Ukraine through special check points by presenting a passport and special permission issued by territorial body of State Migration Service of Ukraine or territorial body of Department for Migration Service of Ukraine in Novotroitsky or Genichesky district of Kherson oblast . This permission can only be issued to persons having relatives/property in Crimea or <URL> . Therefore this option is probably not reasonable for most travelers . On Foot The land border can be crossed on foot , but that option requires a special permission ( see the section above ) . Trains <URL> connect Ukraine to Crimea , however it 's possible to take a train to the Ukrainian border in the Kherson region . From the border region one could in theory cross on foot ( see the section above ) . Going from Crimea to Ukraine Unless you 've previously acquired the above-mentioned special permission and entered Crimea via Kherson , it 's impossible to cross into Ukraine from Crimea over land . The Ukrainian border guards could either deny you entry or arrest you for illegally entering the Ukrainian territory through Russia . Conclusion Flying via Moscow is probably the only feasible way for most tourists . Note that this option is technically illegal from the Ukrainian point of view , so I would avoid talking about Crimea to Ukrainian border guards in the future .
Depending on the country , a box sent through the regular mail service works fine . We had to do that when on vacation in the US , to ship back items to France since we also knew that these would not fit inside our suitcases . UPS asked us $ 150 . USPS did it for $ 40 . If you ask DHL , FedEx which are in the premium range , it can be expensive . Also , during another earlier trip , we simply bought an extra suitcase before heading home . If you expect to have " leftover " baggage allowance at your airline , this can be the solution . It costs you the price of the newly acquired piece of luggage , which can be reused later . Anyway , take note of the restrictions of the local post system . For instance , USPS does not allow shipping batteries ... thus disqualifying all tech items like cell phones , tablets , cameras .
The easiest way is indeed a taxi , and yes , that price sounds about right , although it 's a regular metered fare so the exact cost will vary . Not every taxi will be willing to up and off to Abu Dhabi on a lark though , but the airport taxi stand can sort one out if you ask , or you can call and book a cab . As for safe , well ... most UAE cabbies drive fairly sanely by the standards of the region , but the Dubai-Abu Dhabi highway always has the occasional blinged-up rich kid doing 300km/h in the fast lane in Daddy 's Lamborghini . The cheaper and safer , but slower and less convenient , option is the <URL> bus , Dhs 20 one-way . Buses leave from Ghubaiba station , on the Dubai Metro Green Line , every 30 min or so .
If it has to be simultaneously cheap and time-saving , it will be hard to beat the plane . You may consider a trip by bus . It takes roughly 10 hours and is probably cheaper than the plane if you plan on a short notice . See e.g. here : <URL> 10 hours is also the duration of a day-time train , via Berlin . There are combined train/bus routes , via Nürnberg or Mannheim , sold by the Deutsche Bahn . Travel time is a bit less than 8 hours via Nürnberg and approximately 10 hours via Mannheim . If you book in advance and/or on less busy dates , these options can be quite cost effective . There is also a direct night train from Cologne to Prague . It is really time effective . You travel while you sleep . And if you book sufficiently in advance it will be pretty cheap ( also considering the fact that the train ticket includes the accommodation ) .
Your reasoning is correct . Kayseri + rental car is the most convenient option . You have much more choice to and from Kayseri : better schedules and better prices , through competition . Moreover , the car rental facilities tend to be better at Kayseri . And it is not that further . Anyway , the drive is a quite relaxed one . Renting a car is definitely a good idea to explore that region . You will be more flexible . Getting from Göreme to more remote places like Mustafapaşa , Ihlara Valley or Kaymaklı is much easier and quicker with a car than with public transport . And you will be at ease to visit Kayseri . Indeed , if you have the time , stop by for a couple of hours . It 's worth it . An alternative would be to use an airport transfer , pulbic transport when possible and eventually take part in organised trips to the more remote areas or rent a car for that purpose on a daily basis . The organisational effort is however much bigger . You also lose some flexibility and spontaneity . A last word on the airports . Check carefully if your flight to Kayseri is operated from Istanbul Atatürk Airport ( code IST ) . There is another airport called Sabiha Gökçen ( code SAW ) . The latter is 50 kilometers from what one would call the city center . And transportation to and from this airport is by far not as straightforward as from Atatürk airport .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
There is no issue with your Visa Waiver when you enter by land . According to <URL> you do n't even need ESTA . So as long as your Waiver clock still has some time on it see <URL> or <URL> you should not have an issue .
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
The following route is cheaper , but not all that much , and it 's not possible in a day . Bus from Taipei to Keelung , NT$ 55 ( < US$ 2 ) , every 10 min Ferry from Keelung to Matsu , NT$ 620 ( ~ US$ 21 ) in economy , daily except Wed , overnight ( dep 21:50 , arr 08:30 ) Ferry from Matsu to Fuzhou ( Mawei ) , NT$ 1300 ( ~ US$ 43 ) , daily at 2pm , ~ 2 hours Train from Fuzhou to Shenzhen , US$ 23 in hard seat , dep 21:25 arr 16:00 next day Total price ~ US$ 85 , but time required close to 48 hours . Note that you can substitute both Taipei-Matsu and Fuzhou-Shenzhen with flights , or travel Fuzhou-Shenzhen on faster trains , but that 'll eat up any price advantage ( eg . FOC-SZN for CNY 480/US $ 80 for random dates in March ) . Ferry prices and schedules courtesy of <URL> , trains by <URL> .
It seems <URL> is operating a bus between Vancouver and Whistler , for 30 dollars max one way . The web fare is $ 20 and if you book at least 3 weeks in advance , it can be as low as $ 15 .
Will You Break Even ? In my opinion you would be lucky to break even at the end of the trip . The wear-and-tear from such a long journey alone could cause the motorbike to devalue so much as to lose any margin of profit when reselling it . Having said this , why not do some maths ? Assumptions For the purpose of this answer I will be assuming the following : You will fly to India You will buy a new motorbike You will drive all the way back from Madras to London ( Why Madras ? Because why not ? ) You will drive on the best possible roads , to minimise wear-and-tear ( ha ! ) You will be able to pass all the custom checks in all the countries you will travel through You will be able to import the bike in the UK ( at a cost , of course ) Data Crunching Let 's put some data down . According to <URL> the cost of a new Royal Enfield in India oscillates between 100,000 - 200,000 ( 1074.7 - 2149.4 ) using google and today 's rates - March 2015 ) depending on the model . Let 's pick an average 150,000 ( 1612.05 & sim ; 1600 ) . Now let 's look at the average selling price for Royal Enfield bikes in the UK , via ebay . A <URL> yields selling prices ranging 1200 - 3000 for used , non-collectors , models ( those 99 ads you see are just the deposit for a new bike , whose real cost is something around 4999 ) . The air distance between Madras and London is 8218.75 km , to get a road distance estimate I would say multiply that by 3 , which gives 24656.25 km rounded up to 25,000 km . ( Funny side note , <URL> . ) It is safe to assume that your Royal Enfield will be quite beat after this 25,000 km journey , and thus you wo n't be able to sell it with just slight wear-and-tear , let alone brand new . An ( overly ) optimistic estimate could be selling it for less than half the price of a new one . I.e. something in the range of 2000 . You will have to at least clean it up and polish it , if you do n't consider changing oil , filter , gasket , transmission , etc. . Consider an average petrol price of 1,20 per litre ( this might be an overstimate ) , and an <URL> , you would be looking at a total estimated fuel cost of 25,000 / 27.5 * 1.2 = 1090.91 ( & sim ; 1100 ) . You 're Losing Money Given the following data one can easily see that , by factoring in our estimates -- buying price , wear , selling price and petrol costs -- you are left with a loss of ( + 2000 - 1600 - 1100 ) = -700 . This calculation is of course missing fundamental items such as food , accommodation , paperwork ( and costs ) at each border crossing , unforeseeable roadside maintenance operations , just to name a few . With this in mind , your loss could in fact be order of magnitudes higher -- something along the lines of a few thousand pounds . Royal Enfield Says No to Personal Imports ! According to the <URL> , vehicles sold in India will not pass the UK MOT , so all our conjectures might in fact be <URL> : The following points outline some of the factors that need to be considered in order to evaluate what is involved when you carry out a private import . The scenario is as per the current terms and conditions prevailing , but you should be aware that legislation is constantly changing in these countries to prevent such imports . Indian motorcycle models are different from EEC/UK/USA models and will not pass a Ministry of Transport ( MOT ) test . Models meant for other countries are not sold in India . The Indian model motorcycles can not be registered in any other country other than India or SAARC nations as they do not meet the statutory norms prevailing there . All UK/EEC specification motorcycles comply with Whole Vehicle Type Approval ( WVTA ) and have VIN plates . From June 2003 , all models of bike , not previously imported into the UK/EEC , must have a WVTA with the consequent VIN plate and Certificate of Conformity from Royal Enfield . All USA specification motorcycles comply with FMVSS rules and regulations and have a VIN plate . Each individual state in the USA also has registration rules that parallel the Federal rules so even if a bike somehow gets past US Customs the owner will most likely be unable to register the motorcycle . A motorcycle that does not comply with the UK or EEC or USA rules may not have valid insurance , thus leaving the owner liable to an insurance company refusing to pay out on any claim , including third party liability . Royal Enfield will not be liable for registration , compliance certificates or any documents whatsoever , which may be required for the private import of our bikes and it will be purely at the risk of the buyer . Of course they might just be saying this because they want you to buy from their ( more expensive ) local dealers . Or maybe they actually know what they are talking about . Or maybe even a bit of both . Up to you to judge .
I recommend you to add one day to your application - there is no problem to stay one day less than you were going to , but you can get real problems if flight will be delayed - if you would n't pass through the customs in time , you can be marked into black list .
The cheapest way I know is to get a bus from Nazareth all the way to Amman using a company called <URL> . The bus departs almost daily at 8AM and will cost around $ 20 . You will be dropped off around Amman University . A public bus from Tel Aviv to Nazareth will cost you less than $ 10 . Another company called <URL> has a direct bus from Tel Aviv but the cost is around $ 90 . Not worth it . If you do n't want to take a private bus for some odd reason , you can take a public bus to Bet She'an ( around $ 15 ) , a taxi to the border ( $ 15 ) , then a taxi from the border to Amman ( $ 55 + ) .
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
I actually think I have the perfect thing for you . I made this site to check for when any booked hotels open up , and send you an email/text when it does : <URL> Full disclosure , I 'm the creator of the site . You should add all the hotels that are in that area , and when any of them have an opening , it will notify you right away . Make sure you put all the hotels in there as soon as possible to increase your chances of getting in . As @Krippled Hick says , sometimes if you need a booking for 2 or more nights , one or just some of those nights might become available first . Hotel Room Alerts will notify you when a portion of the dates you need open up . Improving the site is a labor of love for me . Let me know how it goes !
end question
start question
Dieppe to Newhaven ferry - necessary to prebook ticket ?
<URL> London to Paris for # 73 one-way , even for immediate departure , no reservation necessary ... Newhaven to Dieppe costs # 20 each way as a foot passenger ( # 25 on Friday nights ) . However Buy your ferry ticket online at www.ldlines.co.uk or at the port . There are almost always places available . That almost makes me pause . Here 's the <URL> : You should check-in at least 45 min before departure . The FAQ does n't mention bikes but this <URL> claims Bikes are welcome on all services
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
Well , it 's not yet a full answer , but it 's a start . The ferry leaves Mersin once a week . But ... as I write this ( October 16 , 2012 ) , after having spoken to Anrusstrans , the ferry has not run for the ' past month ' and will not run for ' at least another month ' . ( I might have an opportunity to try them again in April 2013 . Any updates in the meantime are most welcome . )
It 's less hassle because it 's just a ticket and some paperwork , instead of a potential court appearance . If they are kind to you , you may appreciate it and be less angry as well , not taking it out on them if they 're doing you a ' favour ' . And then they write up a ticket , probably record it back at the station , and that 's the job done . If it 's a court appearance , they 'll have to file additional paperwork , probably show up to testify , and they could instead be out on the street looking for more offenders . So it benefits everyone in someways ( although some would argue you 're letting someone off of a crime ) to reduce the level of the offence , and give you a stern warning and a ticket . They 're more likely to do it if you do n't have a record , of course - if it 's your third this week , they might decide it 's time to take it to another level ( ie court ) .
Some crossings that are longer than 1000 km , as the crow flies : <URL> : 1095 km <URL> : 1382 km <URL> : 1504 km <URL> has some long routes : Selgovia -- Dutch Harbor ( 1096 km ) , Bellingham -- Skagway ( 1451 km ) . But nothing beats <URL> with 2219 km . Question is if this is still a ferry considering it does n't go very often ( apparently just three times a year ) . Norwegian Hurtigruten takes cars : <URL> which is 1541 km as the crow flies , but at least twice as long with the route it actually takes .
I will only be in London for 2 days and plan to take the tube no more than 2 or 3 times , so it does n't make much sense to buy an oystercard . You can buy single journey paper tickets for the tube , but they strongly discourage it through pricing . I just looked up a zone 1 tube fare and it was # 2.40 on oyster but # 4.90 on a paper ticket . At those prices even if you do n't get your card deposit back ( or you get the visitor card with it 's non-refundable charge ) it does n't take very many journeys for oyster to beat paper tickets . Another option is to use a contactless credit/debit card but if you have a non-UK card beware of foreign transaction fees . Also note that while you can use paper single tickets on the tube you ca n't use them on busses in london . Your only options there are oyster , contactless and travelcards . ( I read there is an activation cost and you wo n't get a full refund if you use it for such a short time ) . There are two types of oyster card . Regular cards and visitor cards . Regular cards have a # 5 refundable deposit , visitor cards have a # 3 non-refundable " activation fee " . The visitor card can only be obtained outside london . Regular cards can be obtained at any tube station . The visitor card comes with a few special offers for london attactions that the regular card does n't but otherwise the cards are much the same . AIUI with cash at a machine you can top up any ammount down to the smallest coins the machine will take while if you pay by card at a machine or pay at a ticket office the minimum top-up is # 5 . Getting the deposit and remaining credit refunded used to require dealing with a manned ticket office but it seems it 's now possible to do it at a ticket machine .
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
We took a trip around the world in 2010 , spanning N. America , Asia , Australia/New Zealand and Tahiti . Anecdotal Experience : For our itinerary , it was impossible to pick an airline covering all our destinations . Even though RTW tickets are sold through alliances ( OneWorld , Star , etc. ) , unfortunately , there is no one alliance that covers it all . Also it was less expensive for us to book tickets individually , across and within continents . For flights within , check if there are low cost carriers . The big caveat , though , is luggage allowance , which may be an issue for you if you are packing for 10 months ;) Bottom Line : It all DEPENDS on your choice of destinations . Conversely , if you are travelling in a higher class ( Business/First ) , RTW ticketing offers good pricing .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
Yes there are at least two . How far far east do you want ? Slightly far east : There is a ferry between Vladivostok and Takaoka . There should be a ferry between Vladivostok and Toyama . ( There may be a ferry between Vladivostok and Niigata but reports say it 's discontinued for now ) Extremely far east : There is a ferry between Sakhalin ( Korsakov ) and far northern Hokkaido ( Wakkanai ) . If it 's something off the beaten path you 're looking for I 've been wanting to do the Sahkhalin-Japan crossing for a few years . If it 's something practial you 're looking for that may not be it ( - : Here are some useful links : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No , this does NOT work . the validity of the Region Ticket Bayern clearly states that it 's for trips that start or end outside of a Verkehrsverbund ( VV ) ( not sure how to translate this ) : nur für Fahrten , die außerhalb eines Verkehrsverbundes beginnen oder enden To see this info , <URL> and click on " Das Regio-Ticket Bayern gilt " VGN tickets are for the " <URL> " , so you can only use the Bavarian ticket from it 's central area to get to places that are not in a Verbund and back . Not from one Verbund to the other . Also , the Regio Ticket Bayern does not cover the RVV trains in Regensburg . <URL> will show you where the VV 's start and end . On top of this , the <URL> will automatically show you the Region Tickets for purchase if the trip you plan allows you to book such a ticket .
You can check public transport on site <URL> I made a <URL> to your connection ; you can change the time , date and places of start and end ( by right-click ) . It 's very important wheter your journey will be at weekend or on a workday . At workdays buses and trams runs more often . Anyway , I think that in your case a taxi is the only reasonable and safe solution , because the amount of time is too little to travel by public transport . It would take about 40 mins and you need time to find your bus stop , find platform on railway station etc. . Obviously you can book the taxi in advance . In Poland such companies are usually called " ( Something ) Radio Taxi " , so you can just Google it searching for Radio Taxi Gdańsk . Examples ( with websites in English ) : <URL> <URL>
Get an Oyster Card or Use Your Contactless Payment Card If you plan on travelling a total of two journeys in two days then you wo n't need a 2-day travel ticket ( nor 2 day travel cards ) as that would be to expressive , as well as overkill . The simplest option would be to get two one way tickets covering the zones you need . These will definitely be cheaper than daily tickets . Having said this , your best bet is to get an <URL> , or even use your contactless payment card . Doing so you 'll get the cheapest possible rates for your travels , and your maximum expenditure will be capped to the same value as that of a day travel card covering the zones you transited . Indeed , <URL> : Only here for a short visit ? If you are only making one or two journeys when visiting London , pay as you go is the best option if you already have a contactless payment or Oyster card . If you do n't have one of these , you could consider getting an Oyster card which you can use whenever you visit London . Alternatively , you could buy single tickets , a Day Travelcard or a One Day Bus &amp; Tram Pass although these are all more expensive than using pay as you go . <URL> , by asking at the manned ticket counter . For more information <URL> , in terms of fares and usage . How About Buses ? When it comes to buses however , note that recently <URL> . This means that you can still purchase a single journey on a bus , but you 'll have to use your payment card . You can of course use your contactless card to take advantage of the reduced oyster fares . The other obvious options is to purchase an oyster card and use that to pay for the bus .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
I agree it 's very annoying , as the main reason to purchase first class is a bit of extra space and some peace and quiet . Rule G 38 suggests you may be entitled to the fare difference between first and standard class , if one interprets " declassified " as meaning " no longer first class but just another standard class coach " . G. TRAIN ACCOMMODATION AND RESERVATIONS Travelling in standard class accommodation with a first class ticket If you have a first class ticket ( or the equivalent ) and the first class accommodation ( or the equivalent ) shown in the National Rail Timetable is not available in any train you travel in , you may claim a refund of the difference in price between the first class and the standard class ticket for the relevant part of your journey . <URL> This rule does not apply to season ticket holders . Virgin Trains also explicitly provides this guarantee , although disingenuously they suggest it is their idea : <URL>
According to <URL> , If you are a citizen of a country that participates in the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and you enter the U.S. by land from Mexico or Canada , you are only required to complete the paper I-94W form at the land border crossing . ESTA is currently required for air and cruise ship travel only . Note : VWP citizens do not need an ESTA to travel on the ferries between Vancouver and Victoria , BC and Washington state . They are treated as a land border port .
I ca n't prove a negative , but as far as I can tell by looking at the sites of A-Line and Marix , the answer is no , they do n't offer any sort of hop-on-hop-off ticket , nor do you get any " stopovers " if you buy a longer ticket . There 's a third option from Amami to Kagoshima , the once-weekly <URL> via the tiny and obscure <URL> ( long on my personal to-do list ) , but this costs even more at & yen ; 11,620 one-way .
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
Generally speaking German IC and ICE are somewhat comparable to Dutch IC in that they do not stop at every station along the way . Their comfort level is higher ( often with a bar/restaurant and always the possibility to reserve a seat ) which make them feel more luxurious than Dutch trains but they are not really " exclusive " . Like TGV in France , ICE are in fact very common , gradually replacing IC on many lines so planning around them is difficult . Practicality of regional trains to cover long distances is going to depend on the precise time and destination . As an example , a quick search on bahn.de shows that Hengelo to Stettin is about 11 hours with 5 to 7 changes . You can reach the same destination in less than 8 hours , with two changes using the Amsterdam-Berlin direct train . If you travel alone and are able to book in advance , the price difference is not big : 39 $ to Berlin from any station in the Netherlands plus 10 $ for the Berlin-Stettin-Ticket , which works out to 8 $ more than the schönes Wochende Ticket . Following the same idea , you can also cross the Dutch border with a regional train or by some other means and book a Europa-Spezial ticket from the first German train station to Poland ( <URL> ) , also for 39 $ . You do n't even need to stop near the border , from Berlin you can get a connection all the way to Gdańsk , Warsaw or Kraków with the same ticket . You can travel on a week day as well so this solution is a lot more flexible and comfortable for a very small price difference . However , for several people , the price difference would be significant because one of the main advantage of the schönes Wochende Ticket is that a whole family or a small group ( up to 5 people ) can travel with one ticket .
end question
start question
How does VIP service work at the Managua Airport ?
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
From the SBB Web site it seems that all you will need is your daughter 's passport or other official ID ( to prove her date of birth ) and the fee . You 'll need to give an address as well , which will be printed or written on the travelcard ; it 's not clear whether this needs to be an address in Switzerland or your own home address abroad . You 'll get two travelcards , one for each parent . A photo is not needed . ( From <URL> [ PDF , German ] ) As Roflcopter says , Zurich airport railway station can be busy and it can be quiet . If the ticket counters are busy you could try the SBB travel agency next door . I 'd be surprised if issuing the ticket takes more than five minutes . But assuming you do n't live in Switzerland , you 'd probably be better off with <URL> tickets for yourself and the free Family Card which Max mentions for your daughter . Even if you 're not doing enough travelling for a " go-anywhere " Swiss Pass to be worthwhile , a Half Fare Card ( CHF 120 ) will more than pay for itself just with one return journey from the airport to Jungfraujoch ( CHF 340 full fare ) .
You should expect something between 9 - 15 $ , more than that is suspicious/wrong . I am from Lisbon and live in Sweden now . When Traveling home I take the taxi from the Airport out to Oeiras ( on the suburbs and also a extra taxed ride since it 's outside Lisbon Municipality ) . It costs me between 25-30 $ . The Lisbon airport site you named is not the official one . <URL> is . Check also <URL> about different rates at different days/times , and <URL> unofficial site with some info also . You can also go to the Tourist office inside the Airport and buy a fixed price ride . 19.20 $ was the price I found for weekends .
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
I ca n't find the reference now , but there was a great story that an organisation was testing security at airports around the world , by taking a suitcase to the airport and leaving it there , timing how long before it got stolen or identified . The exception was Johannesburg , where the car was hijacked enroute , and the suitcase never made it to the airport ;) Anyway ... Apparently in the last year , luggage theft has been reduced by 60 % : <URL> which bodes well . Baggage pilfering is down to 0.6 % of all bags that pass through the airport , which when you think about it is still bad , but if you lock your bags and use the bag wrapping machines available , it 'll deter the opportunistic thief .
It 's actually a lot simpler than the WikiVoyage article makes out , so no need to worry ! ( I 've now fixed that page ... ) . The bus company website has changed recently , and the new timetable page is now <URL> If coming on foot from the city centre , your best be is to walk along Ul . kneza Branimira past the Graffiti wall , then turn onto Avenija Marina Drzica . You 'll see the bus station on your right , and the Airport bus goes from the first building you come to in the bus station , which is white and labelled with Croatian Airlines and Eurolines . Walk through the ticket office and out to where the bus goes from . Pay the driver on boarding . If coming by tram , take a 2 , 5 , 6 , 7 or 8 to Autobusni Kolodvor ( the bus station ) . Cross over to the bus station side , and turn right . Walk north ( towards the railway line ) to the end of the bus station , with the shops on your left . The very end part of the building is labelled with Croatian Airlines and Eurolines , and that 's the part you want . If you need to change trams to get there , be aware that the stops at Drziceva are all a long way apart , so it 's not a good place to change . Either get off there and walk ( it 's only a couple of minutes ) , or change at Olipska where the platforms are opposite . The airport buses do n't leave from the main part of the bus station , so if you 're in there you 'll need to exit down to the street , walk to the end of the building and enter the dedicated airport buses part there . It currently costs kn 30 one way , payable to the driver in cash on boarding . There are cash machines outside a few of the shops on the main road outside if you need them , and coming from the airport there 's a cash machine inside baggage reclaim , and others in the main airport building .
There is a free shuttle bus between the two terminals . In addition , there are golf carts standing by at some cost . Details can be found <URL> , which says : Passengers can use shuttle bus ( free of charge for transit passengers ) to transport between T1 and T2 terminal . Time of operation : From 06h00 to 24h00 ( local time ) ; Frequency : From 10 to 15 minutes / 01 respective vehicle . Maintaining other means of transportation ( tram , public bus ) The signs at the actual site indicate that frequency is 10 minutes during the day time and 20 minutes in the early morning/late evening . The shuttle bus is a small coach with space underneath for suitcases . Coming from T1 arrivals , turn right and walk up to the end of the terminal for the collection point . There are LED signs indicating the way .
<URL> is your friend . You can use that service from city to city , or - as I did in this case - from country ( Australia ) to city ( Hyderabad ) . If you are fortunate enough to fly with your own plane and want to have the closest airport in terms of distance , check the <URL>
but [ tipping ] is meant to be for a good job Yes , in theory , but in practice it 's standard to ( almost ) always leave a tip . Even if the service is merely " bad " , then you generally leave a tip on the low end of the scale . If it really is appalling ( ie , they got your order completely wrong , or were excessively slow for no good reason ) , then you leave a very low tip ( ie , 5 % ) , or leave the 1-cent tip if you want to send a pointed message . I think I 've only ever done that once or twice ( and I eat at restaurants a lot ) . It 's not legal to pay staff less than the minimum wage excluding tips , so that 's not really the issue . However , minimum wage ( in the United States ) is <URL> ( $ 7.25 / hr ) compared to other countries like <URL> ( $ 10 + ) and <URL> ( $ 16 ) . And then , service staff are often paid on the low end of the scale , despite the relatively difficult nature of the work . So it 's a sign of respect to tip generously as a policy ; and there is a stigma attached to being too cheap , for which poor tipping is presumed evidence .
As of 2016 , the manned passport checks at Prague airport were replaced with boarding pass scanners . As a matter of fact , I did n't once have to show an ID flying PRG-BCN today . Therefore the question is now moot .
Tipping in cruises are categorized in 3 ways : Mandatory : Most cruise lines have a preset gratuity amount . The ones I have been on range from US$ 11-15 per person per day , which covers all ship staff : customer-facing and the one 's working behind-the-scenes . In fact this form of tipping covers a major portion of their salaries . Now many travel agencies roll these into their packages . Look for an itemized line reading " Prepaid Gratuities " . If absent , the charge will be applied daily to the credit card you use to place a deposit while on board . Obligatory : You will notice that most staff on reputable cruise liners will go above and beyond their call of duty . This can range from exceptional housekeeping , to some great recommendations at the dinner table . Some cruise operators will place an envelope in your room , where you can place cash tips for exceptional service , and also the person to address it to . Passive Tipping : We were told that post-cruise we would receive an extensive questionnaire soliciting feedback . Sure enough , we did . There were several opportunities in the forms to single out employees for recognition . I am told that the comments and citations go a long way in deciding their career path . So if someone does impress you a great deal , do make a note of their full name .
If you hire a car service , the driver will usually be able to assist you door to door ( with a suitable tip , of course ) . The advantage to a hired car is that the driver will be able to park it in the garage and help you with the luggage from your living room right up to the airline counter -- whereas a taxi driver will be loathe to leave their ride . Car services are popularly thought to be the province of the super-rich but if you price them out , they are actually not too extravagant , especially given the circumstances here . When you call the dispatch ( reservations center ) , tell them about your medical condition and ask them if they can get you a driver who wo n't mind helping you with your luggage .
The CBP/TSA have recommendations from both their own and external parties about certain individuals for whatever reasons - innocuous , cautionary or other , indicating that their recommendation is that said individual not be allowed to board a flight . For example , the <URL> : CDC provides " Do Not Board " recommendations to CBP and the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA ) regarding individuals who may be infected with a highly contagious disease , present a threat to public health , and should be prevented from traveling to the United States via commercial aircraft . TSA is performing vetting of all airline passengers coming to , departing from or flying within the U.S. to identify matches to the " Do Not Board " list and flag matched individuals ' records in the Secure Flight system to prevent the issuance of a boarding pass . So at this point , you do what the note tells you - you ( hopefully with the ground staff ) contact the TSA/CBP , determine the reason , and see if there 's anything you can do to get around it . For example , the original " No Fly List " <URL> , especially if you say , had the same name as a suspicious person . If you were erroneously put on the list , you can appeal it , but <URL> .
How does it work ? You go and stay in the queue for the taxi , usually just outside the terminal . When it 's your turn , you get inside the taxi and tell the driver your destination . And than you ride in ( sometimes smelly ) taxi for a while ( for a long while ) and eventually you get to your destination . How can I recognize it ? You wo n't miss it . There will be signs with directions , as well as the sign where the queue starts . Also , there is usually quite a lot of people queuing for the taxi . How can I recognize a legit taxi ? Although it never happened to me , some people may ask you if you need a taxi INSIDE the airport terminal . Avoid them , they are not legit . Head to the exit , search for a man or a woman with a little printer and dressed in uniform . ( credits to @Napolux for the information ) Once you are in official taxi queue you do n't really have to worry about taxi being legit , but you can still check taxi medallion . It will look similar to this and will be attached to the bonnet ( aka hood if you are American ) of the car . Additionally , there will be numbers inside of the taxi . <URL> You can check the number here : <URL> How much will it cost to take the taxi from JFK to Manhattan ? Is there a fixed fare ? There is a fixed fare , JKF to Manhattan is $ 52 + tolls + tips . Payable by card or cash .
Are your tickets separate or one booking ? If they are two different tickets , then the Passenger Service Charge applies because you are technically / legally originating from Bangkok for the second one . The fact that you arrived in Bangkok only 12 hours earlier and did not leave the transit lounge does not negate this aspect . If you have a single ticket and Bangkok is just a layover , then the airline should not have charged the fee and you need to contact them about refunding the incorrect charge .
It 's pretty much a non-issue nowadays . 911 and 112 are n't treated as phone numbers by mobile phones . That is to say , they 're not sent as number strings to be recognized by the central phone switch . Instead , the phone itself recognizes the number and initiates a special emergency call . The benefit of this method is that the call can be treated as a priority call immediately , so radio channels can be freed straight away .
This is a standard clause found on tourist visas for many countries . What it basically means is you can not legally seek employment within Australia or its territories or be employed by any entity in Australia and receive income from it . So checking your work email or working offline or even online for their employer outside Australia does n't violate the terms of their visa . But IMHO violates the term vacation .
According to the <URL> , the phone has two versions : GSM 900 / 1800 GSM 850 / 1900 - US version Obviously you have the EU version ( GSM 900/1800 ) which will not work with the US networks which are ( GSM 850/1900 ) . For more information : <URL> .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
From <URL> : Sleeping in airports is generally frowned upon in all Japanese airports . While the terminal is open , you will likely be approached by a security officer who will ask to see your travel documents It also links to a quote from the <URL> , although I ca n't find the quote on that page . Aircraft operating hours is between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. . Customers are not permitted to remain in the passenger terminals outside aircraft operating hours . However , under special circumstances , for example when an aircraft arrives after public transport stops operating , customers may be allowed to sleep in designated areas . Moreover , customers catching early morning flights are advised to use nearby hotels and accommodations around the airport . It does however say that sleeping facilities can be reserved in advance in the day rooms . From some of the comments , however , on sleepinginairports , some had no problems and even had the police show them comfy places to nap . So it looks like officially , no , you ca n't , but in reality depending on your luck , you may be able to .
end question
start question
Why do airlines require an address when booking ?
Firstly , not all airlines do . I booked a Philippines Air flight ( through Expedia ) last night that did n't require I enter my physical address . So now that we 've established that , we can look at those that do , and why . In case of disaster . Some airlines ask for an emergency contact name and phone , others merely ask for your physical address . It 's another way of figuring out how to contact next of kin . Indeed when I went through an experience in South America , Interpol and the NZ Police used residential addresses to ensure they had the correct next of kin . For correspondence , mailing and advertisement . While some of us prefer the electronic world , it 's so easy to delete emails - they know you 'll likely open an envelope addressed to you . American Airlines confirms this ( correspondence reason ) in their <URL> . Air New Zealand used physical addresses to send out their latest AirPoints card offer . For corporate partners . Some airlines are linked with hotel chains , credit card numbers and the like . They may share information on your travelling habits , spending habits , and help to update each others ' information . In addition , these partners may also send you junk mail . . err ... corporate correspondence , permitted by you if you ticked/didn ' t untick the right box , or agreed to some long terms and conditions . Lost baggage . In the event they need to return items to you , they have a place to send it . Your email could be blocked/hacked , phones get lost , but save for an earthquake , the luggage can at least be sent to your nearest airport . I had this in 2002 when my snowboard bag got mixed up with someone else 's . They 'd already looked up where I lived and re-routed it down to my city . If they 're smart , and have your email and physical address , they can now send you targeted marketing - cheap flight from your home city , or hotel deals through their corporate partners . Historical reasons . Remember when companies started to ask for email addresses , and we all thought that was dumb ? Now we completely expect it . But we 're also happy to continue filling out the physical address , because we 're so used to it . And they probably feel that a ) they always got it , so why would they stop and b ) the more you know about a customer , the better . I 'm sure there 's plenty of other reasons , but those are the ones I 've heard of , experienced , or read about in the past , and can think of for now :) Come to think of it , I 'm kinda surprised now that I was able to get away with it at all . They did ask for my credit card billing address , but that 's different to my physical address anyway !
As a rule of thumb , the worse the visa regime , the worse the country 's regime . It 's the tinpot dictatorships of the world ( Turkmenistan , North Korea , Saudi Arabia , Angola , etc ) that make it <URL> and watch visitors most closely , not because they 're particularly concerned about Norwegians stealing their jobs , but because they 're afraid that they 're actually { journalists , dangerous infidels , disguised CIA spies , etc } out to { steal their military secrets , report on human rights issues , lead the faithful astray , steal their women , etc } . Or , in the case of the United States , suffering from bed-wetting hysteria about foreign terrorists . China is somewhere in the middle of the spectrum : not particularly bad as far as visas or regimes are concerned , but still pretty paranoid about foreigners snooping about where they should n't ( eg . Tibet without a tour guide ) and with a strong preference for more state control rather than less . Inertia is also a factor : no bureaucrat ever got fired for imposing more restrictions , whereas letting a bad apple in may be a career-limiting move .
As a cabin crew member , I have first hand experiences with real turbulence , both anticipated and unanticipated . The story of asking passengers to fasten seatbelts is not about people being thrown off their seats only , here are the reasons : Flying people Passengers and crew can literally fly around the cabin in real turbulence causing injuries not only to themselves but to other passengers who are sitting and buckled up . A few years ago I had a sudden serious turbulence over the Gulf of Bengal and I was with a few other crew members at the back galley having our meal after we finished the service , two of us hit the ceiling ! it was B777 wide body and the ceiling is quite high , luckily none of us was seriously injured . When we went out to the aisle to check passengers , Many of them who did n't fastened the seatbelt were literally on top of other passengers in other rows because of the turbulence , none was seriously injured but there was a big potential for that . The seatbelt sign was off when it happened , but that 's not an excuse , in that specific airline as in many others , the seatbelt rules are " fasten your seatbelt when the seatbelt sign is illuminated , or while seated at all times " . Seatbelts are actually meant to be fastened at all times , except when you really have to move ( toilet , etc. ) . Anyway , crew members are the usual victims in turbulence since most of them would be standing and closer to the ceiling . I know some colleagues who had serious injuries that almost caused them disabilities . So , to sum that up , seatbelts are really important in preventing some turbulence related injuries . Making it easy for the crew When there is light turbulence or bumping , even if the pilots know for a fact it is light and would never cause any one to be flying around the cabin , they need to put the sign on just to make things easier for the crew to move around , especially if it is during service time . In flights with hyperactive passengers , crew sometimes put the seatbelt sign on just to make people sit for the same reason . Turbulence will be the excuse here , but in reality , it is not a danger and the proof for that is seeing the crew in the aisle with carts serving people ;) Again , airline pilots tend to put their airlines in the safe side , so the lightest possible sign of a turbulence will be taken seriously and people would be asked to put their seatbelts on so insurance companies can cooperate better .
When it boils down to it , provided all your travel plans go well , it may not be a problem . The 6 month limit is possibly a bit long these days , and indeed <URL> , but it 's there , and it 's there for when things go wrong . Every country is trying to get tourists ( well , maybe not Saudi Arabia ) , but to not break the law . You 're only allowed into a country with a valid , legal passport , and sometimes a valid visa . Now , if your passport is expired , suddenly you have an unlawful situation . Your own country effectively says your document is not a valid document . So now said foreign country has someone without a valid document . How do they get you home ? Unless you 're neighbours , and can just pop across the border , it 's now nearly impossible to leave the foreign country , as you 'd have to travel through another country which wo n't accept an illegal document . <URL> . Airlines , if they let you travel without a valid visa/passport , are made to bring you back at their own expense . So they wo n't want to take you either . Indeed for Australia , it 's not mandatory that you have the six months , but <URL> . So now that we have a reason to not allow people to have their passports expire while in the country , why six months ? If I 'm there for 2 days , and the expiry is 6 months later , why should they care ? Caution . First , a lot of the countries that have these limits , offer six month visas . Meaning you could stay right up to the day of departure . So that 's one reason . Now , every day that you get closer to departure risks you having an invalid passport if you overstay even a day . So for most countries , just having an arbitrary limit aims to prevent this issue . If you 're suddenly in a car accident and ca n't fly out , or , heck , even if your flight is delayed a couple of days , it 's best for all involved that nobody 's passport expire as a result . Otherwise , legally you become an overstayer , and by law they 'd have to deport you , which could be tricky if you 're ill . Imagine the situation where you 're stricken with , say , swine flu , your passport has now expired , and you get deported . On top of this , you 're also considered an overstayer , which will be on your permanent record , and in some the case of some countries will almost certainly preclude you from returning . Not every country has this six month limit . Many just <URL> . NZ and a few other countries <URL> , although apparently <URL> after your visa ends . Each country deals with this in a different way , but the ' six month rule ' is common and simple for all involved to understand .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
There are some strategies that you can use : Prepare : Check websites like <URL> or <URL> before you go there . If you really want to plan , write down the restaurants you want to visit . Based on the ratings and comments there , you should be able to judge if it is an authentic restaurant with a good service . Do n't stick to the main street : Very often , tourist places attract tourist restaurants . So to get a more authentic experience , go to the areas where not a lot of tourists go . Sometimes it is enough to just go one block off the main street and you will find no tourists . Avoid obvious tourist traps : There are some hints that can tell you immediately if the restaurant is a tourist trap . As user1187008 pointed out for example , one should avoid restaurants with a big illustrated menu in English ( especially , if English is not the local language ) Observe the locals : Check out where the locals go to eat . They know best what restaurants are good . Use the internet : Try to find local blogs which emphasize of food . For every major city , you will find such food/restaurant blogs . Be spontaneous : Tripadvisor and other websites have apps for smartphones that allow you to check the restaurants in the surroundings of your current location . Ask a friend : As Rory Alsop pointed out , it is always a good idea to ask a local friend for advice if you know anybody at the destination .
An " Opaque " booking is one where you do n't know the exact details of what you 're booking until after you 've made the booking . The most common form of opaque bookings are for hotels , but they also exist for flights . There two general formats of booking sites for opaque hotels - those that work on a " bidding " concept , and those that have a fixed price . <URL> was the first ( and still best known ) of the " bidding " types of sites . For their bidding site , you specify an exact date range , a general vicinity where you want to stay , a star range ( eg , 3 star or higher ) and a price . If your " bid " matches something they have available then you will " win " that hotel - however you will not be given an exact details of the hotel ( including the name or exact location ) until after you 've placed your bid - and by that stage you are not able to back out of the booking . Fixed price sites include <URL> Hidden Hotels , <URL> " Wot hotel ? " , <URL> " Top Secret Hotels " , <URL> Unpublished Rate hotels , and many more . With these you are shown details of specific hotels , but without the exact hotel name , location or amenities . eg , you might be told it 's a 3.5 star hotels on the Las Vegas Strip with a pool . Sometimes you can reverse engineer these descriptions back to a specific hotel ( eg , for many countries simply Googleing the description from Wotif 's hotels will let you work out the exact hotel ! ) , but more freqently you are not given enough details to do so . For both bidding and fixed price , the moment you make the booking you are given the details of the hotel - including name , address , etc. . From that point you ca n't generally make any changes to the booking or cancel it - you 'll be charged the moment you make the booking and it 's non-refundable . Almost without exception , booking a hotel via an opaque method will result in you paying less , but with the uncertainly that you do n't fully know what you 're going to get . You will also normally not earn any form of loyalty points/status when booking via an opaque channel ( ie , frequent flyer points , hotel points , etc ) . There 's a good explanation on why deals such as this exist in the answers to <URL> . There are a number of web forums , such as <URL> , where people share tips for booking opaque hotels , including details of prices paid and hints to help maps descriptions to specific hotels .
Because they can . Not all tourists spend money in the cities and most cities do not get direct benefits from tourist money while they do spend money on public transport , roads and other things tourists use . In most places I have been tourist tax was a very small amount , about 1 % or less of the cost of being a tourist in the town .
I think what you want is covered in the Frequently Asked Questions about Advance fares section of the National Rail Enquiries ( internal ) Knowledgebase ( iKB ) , which is n't available online officially . However , one of the nice members of Rail UK Forums <URL> in response to a <URL> Q25 - Can a passenger with an Advance ticket travel on an earlier connecting train ? A : Yes if it is non-reservable , no if it is reservable . An exception that benefits passengers : Where Virgin Trains East Coast is a connecting TOC from Stevenage via London and vice versa , e.g. " AP London-Reading " , or " VWC &amp; Connections " , Virgin Trains East Coast waives the need to travel on the exact Virgin Trains East Coast train booked on this relatively short journey Stevenage ↔ Kings Cross , even though retail systems will force a reservation to be made . So , it all depends on if seat reservations would 've been possible on the connecting train you want to take . If there are seat reservations possible , then an advanced ticket is only valid where you have a reservation on that service . Where no seat reservations are possible , a &amp; Connections ticket is Checking easily which trains can and ca n't have seats reserved is probably a different question ... If you ask staff at the station about a specific train they can tell you though !
Do n't take it personally , that happens in other countries as well . It 's not common , but there are hostels in the US , Canada , and Europe that do n't allow people from their own country to stay there . So if it makes you feel any better , there are U.S. hostels that will happily accept you , but not a U.S. citizen . I ran into that once myself when I wanted to stay at a hostel here , so I know it is frustrating . The reasoning is some hostels are trying to create a particular social environment where you can interact with travelers from all different countries . It 's also a way to make sure guests really are people who are traveling , not just locals who need a place to crash , or someone who just arrived in town and is looking for temporary housing . At worse , some hostels that let anyone stay can end up looking more like a housing project or homeless shelter . It does solve that problem , but it is unfortunate that they also end up excluding people who really are visiting town from other parts of the country . I do n't think it 's a great policy , but that 's the reasoning behind it anyway .
Climbing Everest from Nepal requires a special permit , and climbers who successfully summit the mountain receive a certificate of acknowledgment from the Nepalese government . The money gathered from the permits go towards cleaning up the mountain1 , which is considered a holy place by some local populations . If Wang Jing did indeed use a helicopter to bypass parts of the climb , her ascent will not be recognized and she will not receive her certificate . Also , she might be refused a permit in the future . 1 for example : <URL>
The airline can move passengers around , even if they have chosen seats ( you 'll always see the disclaimer when you choose a seat online ) - whereas the online booking system wo n't necessarily know if it can do this . Also , the airline may have more up to date knowledge of cancellations at that stage . So the problem is n't the airline making it look like there are few remaining seats , but that the system wo n't let you move other passengers in order to fit a group in at short notice . When I make late bookings with the family , I just plan for the fact that we may all have to sit in different areas on the plane . Sometimes it can be sorted , but certainly not every time . That 's the hazard of late booking .
The Smartraveller.gov.au web site advice for <URL> gives some more details of why you 'd want travel insurance , such as medical expenses outside New Zealand , or medical evacuation following an accident : Australians seriously injured in accidents in New Zealand may suffer significant financial losses from loss of income or medical expenses on return to Australia . New Zealand 's Accident Compensation Act 2001 generally removes the right to sue for losses arising from personal injury sustained in accidents in New Zealand ( e.g. motor vehicle or adventure sports accidents ) . The Act also excludes Australians from obtaining the ongoing income support provided to New Zealanders and from coverage of any medical expenses outside New Zealand . Also not covered is illness , medical evacuation following an accident , disrupted travel plans , lost deposits , assisted emergency travel home or travel for a relative to visit you . For more information visit the Accident Compensation Corporation ( ACC ) website . We strongly recommend that you take out comprehensive travel insurance when travelling to New Zealand . We also strongly recommend you obtain separate personal accident or income protection insurance policies that will cover lost income or medical expenses in Australia arising from accidents in New Zealand . You should understand what activities and circumstances are covered by your insurance policy . Ensure the travel insurance covers any overseas medical costs , including medical evacuation , before you depart . Confirm that your insurance covers you for the whole time you 'll be away and check what circumstances and activities ( including adventure sports / activities ) are not included in your policy . Remember , regardless of how healthy and fit you are , if you ca n't afford travel insurance , you ca n't afford to travel . The Australian Government will not pay for a traveller 's medical expenses overseas or medical evacuation costs . ... New Zealand and Australia are signatories to a reciprocal health care agreement . The agreement provides Australians with access to government medical facilities and care but does not provide for ongoing treatment of existing health conditions . In addition , the agreement does not cover additional accommodation costs , flights for family members or medical repatriation to Australia . The Reciprocal Health Care Agreement does not replace the need for travel insurance . See Medicare Australia 's website for more information .
Yes indeed , most US airlines charge for all check baggage . There are exceptions if you have " status " with either the airline themselves or with any of their affiliated airlines ( eg , Star Alliance , OneWorld , etc ) , or if you 're flying in First Class , or if you 're connecting from an international flight , or if you have one of their pay-for credit cards , but for most occasional domestic travellers you 'll be charged to check any bags . The fees vary from airline to airline , but are generally fairly similar . International trips are higher , although most airlines still do not charge for ( at least ) the first bag for most international trips . The fees are available on their airlines websites . eg , for both <URL> and <URL> it 's $ 25 for the first checked bag , and $ 35 for a second checked bag for domestic flights , and whilst the first bag is free for international flights the second will cost you up to $ 100 . <URL> depends on the type of ticket you have purchased , but is generally $ 25 for each of the first two check bags . The main exception to the above is <URL> , who do not charge anything to check your first 2 bags ( with standard weight limits/etc ) . Some airlines , such as <URL> , charge different rates depending on whether you pay for your checked bags in advance ( $ 28 / $ 35 for domestic up to 40 pound/18kg ) or at the airport ( $ 38 / $ 45 ) . Mind you , Spirit also charge you between $ 20 and $ 45 ( up to $ 100 starting in November ! ) for your carry-on bag , so avoiding them completely is generally the best option .
I contacted them and I got this response : When booking , select " place booking on hold " ( screenshot :) Then , call them and give the paper voucher code and the booking number that you will see in the next page . They will adjust the price for you to pay . After that , mail the voucher to their address , ( like e-mail was never invented ... VERY ironic compensation to give to someone that complained saying that their systems are outdated ) .
No issues as long as you put it in your checked luggage . Refer to <URL> page . Remember to pack extras of important health supplies in case of travel delays . This is especially important for items that may be difficult to get at your destination , like prescription medicines . Note that for special medicine/equipment like Needles or syringes , you may need a letter from your doctor .
If you book two passengers in one booking , you 'll always get a single receipt . Now , to answer points 1 and 2 you raise : the prices is going to be higher only if no more seats are available at the same price . Many online flight search sites DO give a notification of the number of seats left at a particular price if they 're running low . For instance , Kayak has a small icon showing this , next to where they show the icon for ' red-eye ' flights . Seating is often not allocated during the booking process , but rather during the check-in process , so this question is moot when booking . Even if it allows you to choose seats during booking ( perhaps as a paid add-on to your ticket or if you 're higher up in the frequent flyer tier ) , you can always choose later on during check-in where you want to sit . Finding seats together is usually a bigger problem for large groups , not couples . And if you want to ensure it , choose seats during web check-in rather than leaving it for airport check-in . Or you could just <URL> .
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
Yes , it is worth purchasing Amtrak tickets as early as possible . Amtrak does practice yield management , although it is not nearly as sophisticated as the airlines in this regard . Fares will increase closer to the date and time of travel . Equally importantly , however , Amtrak has a relatively generous change policy in that if your plans change , you only need to pay the fare difference , without a penalty or change fee . If someone purchased a ticket in a low fare bucket and then cancels it close to the departure , sometimes the seat gets released for the original price ; however , this is not something you can count on .
The only major advantage is price : it 's not uncommon for a third-party site to have better prices than those offered directly by the hotel . That said , major chains are increasingly offering best-price guarantees , although these usually only mean that you can claim the difference if you spot it , not that they 're actually always the cheapest option . Minor advantages include : A faster booking process if you 're a repeat customer and they already have your details on file . The infrastructure behind a site like booking.com is rock solid , meaning very reliable booking and payment processes . Little independent hotels have to cobble together their own , so things can and do go wrong , eg . filling out their 16-page booking form and then getting an error on the last page because it does n't like your credit card or something . Some chance of getting your money back if the hotel goes bankrupt or something before your stay . ( That said , any halfway decent credit card will let you dispute the charge in this case even if you book directly . ) But all that said , I still book directly through the hotel if I can . Your reservation is less likely to get lost , you may get better rooms and more perks , making changes to your booking is easier , and you 'll get points if you belong to the hotel chain 's frequent traveller program . Also , Airbnb is ( supposed to be ) for person-to-person short stay rentals , not regular hotels . For most of the properties listed there , Airbnb is the only option for booking .
end question
start question
Oyster Card - how does it actually work ?
Honestly , it 's the most efficient payment method you could use . It 's illogical NOT to get one . When you buy one , you pay a deposit of 5 pounds . You get this back when you return it - so essentially it 's free . Then you put say , twenty pounds on the card - you can top up as you wish . After that , ANY random bus , tube or train trip within London is half price . Why would you NOT use it ? If you use it a few times in one day , which it then works out as reaching the price of a day ticket , it stops charging you . Unless you go to a different zone of course , but even then if you hit the limit for say , two or three zones , it 'll match that too . Then if you 're there for a week , you can buy , say , a zone 2-3 ticket and have unlimited travel in those zones for the week . It 's faster , cheaper and easier than paying for separate tickets . For more information , check out <URL> .
Yep , that 's it . You apply online and get approved , and pay online . You can print it off if it gives you some more anxiety , but literally when I 've used it , I walk up , the official goes " do you have a visa or are you on ESTA ? " , and he scans the passport and has always found it . I 've usually had the approval number or whatever on me , but I 've never needed to show it . The airline might ask for evidence of it , however . It 's pretty smooth , I get more questions about what I plan on doing in the US , rather than how I enter it . Note that it 's <URL> . As an aside it 's reasonably easy to get info on this online from the official sites : From <URL> : It is important to PRINT a copy of the document for your records . The printout is not required upon arrival into the United States , as the officers have the information electronically . Some airlines require the printout upon check-in , please check with your respective airline . and also <URL> : Do I need to bring a printed copy of my ESTA application with me to the airport ? U.S. regulation does NOT require a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) traveler to present a printed copy of the ESTA authorization page in order to travel . However , it is recommended that you print a copy for your records . Also , some airlines may ask you to bring a copy , in which case you should print it out . If you applied for ESTA and you have forgotten your application number , you may retrieve the application through the ESTA website by entering the applicants name , date of birth , passport number and passport issuing country .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
Weekly travelcard : Contactless weekly travelcard is only from Monday to Sunday , so if you arrive and leave mid-week , you might get better rates if you still get an Oyster card , and buy a weekly travelcard on that . On the other hand it might still be cheaper if you do n't intend to travel every day for 7 days to just use your Contactless and use the daily capping rates . Also , if you start your journey after 9:30 every day inside zones 4-6 , and do this at least twice in a week then you 're eligible for the ( not really advertised ) <URL> , which you get as a refund . Getting this refund to an Oyster card as a visitor is usually not possible , as you have to get back to the UK and touch in , but for contactless they can simply just refund to your card , even when you 're long gone . This is also true for any kind of refunds ( like if you forget to touch out somewhere ) : if you 're on contactless you can easily get the refund back to your bank account , but on Oyster you have to be physically present and get a refund at one of the stations by touching in . Boat services : If you plan on using the Thames Clipper boat services , then they offer discounts for people with Oyster cards and/or people with daily/weekly/monthly travelcards ( both paper and oyster ones ) . These discounts are not available for Contactless users . Also from mid September 2015 Oyster cards will be accepted on boat services , but Contactless users have to wait until mid-2016 Buses and trams : There are some slight changes when you use Contactless that will usually not affect your travel though : Contactless payment cards are <URL> on routes 402 and 477 or on the heritage buses which run some journeys on parts of route 15 On Oyster you get the " tram feeder " rates when switching between the trams and the T buses at Addington Village ( you only have to pay for one trip instead of two separate ones ) , but with Contactless you have to pay two separate tickets ( although their site <URL> I occasionally do this trip and it still counts as two separate ones on Contactless , I did n't try to argue with them to get a refund ) This is really a minor difference though , and probably does n't much affect visitors from abroad ( unless visiting friends/relatives in New Addington ) . Banking costs : See @JoErNanO 's answer about potential foreign banking costs associated with Contactless cards
Right , with a bit of research , I 've put the following together . Modern Japanese mobile phones ( 携帯電話 keitai denwa or just keitai ) tend to operate on unique cellular standards not always compatible with the rest of the world . For instance , most Japanese 2G mobile phones operate on the Personal Digital Cellular ( PDC ) standard , which was developed and is used exclusively in Japan . In a nutshell : A lot of 2G phones ( GSM , etc ) from the rest of the world do not work in Japan . Even Quad-band GSM phones are useless . As AU switches its CDMA network to " new " 800MHz ( used in the rest of the world ) , foreign CDMA phones will be able to be used in Japan for roaming purposes . However , the switchover is still in progress , so only use this if staying in Tokyo or Osaka . 3G phones using the UMTS/WCDMA2100 standard and equipped with a 3G SIM card will most likely work . If your phone is up to spec , double-check with your carrier if they have a roaming agreement with either SoftBank or NTT DoCoMo . Coverage is generally excellent , unless you are heading to some remote mountainous areas . If you have no 3G phone but still have a 3G-compatible SIM card , you can rent a 3G phone in Japan and slot in your card , allowing you to keep your home phone number in Japan . Carrier restrictions may apply : for instance , O2-UK ( operating in Japan via NTT DoCoMo ) requires you to dial 111 # , wait for a callback ; then , dial the actual number you wish to connect . Be sure to double-check with your network provider before departing . GSM-only SIMs are issued by providers that do n't have their own 3G network . If your home operator have no 3G network , or if you got your phone before their 3G network was introduced , this may apply to you . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . USIM cards are issued by providers that have a 3G network or plan to introduce one . Any European who got their SIM card after 2003 has one of these . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . Data roaming works as well ( subject to the above restrictions ) , allowing you to use wireless internet on your phone ( although it can be expensive ! ) . Google Maps on your phone can be invaluable ( although note that tower positioning does not work ) . Short visits For a short visit , your cheapest option for mobile access is to rent a phone . A number of companies provide this service . Rental rates and call charges vary , the best one can depend on how long you are renting and how much you will call . Beware of " free " rental as there is a catch : usually , there are very high call charges . Incoming calls are free in Japan . Mobal Communications Inc. . Free rental ( meaning there is no expense unless you actually call someone ) . ¥ 240/min domestic and international . Very expensive ( around $ 3 ) - have people call you instead , since incoming calls are free . Be careful not to lose the phone or the charger as the company charges horrendous amounts . Rentafone Japan ¥ 3,900 up to one week , then ¥ 300/day . Shipping included . ¥ 35/min ~ domestic . USA ¥ 45/min . ¥ 300 for unlimited emailing . You can also use your SIM in the phones . Offers customers a choice of phones . Japan Mobile Rental ¥ 1,200 per day for unlimited broadband internet Connect up to 5 devices Install Skype on your PC or phone and take advantage of cheap international calling rates Use in virtually any place in Japan Pick-up at our Narita or Kansai Airport counters , or at your hotel . SoftBank Global Rental ¥ 250/day ; SIM card : ¥ 105/day . * ¥ 105/min domestic . USA ¥ 105/min . Incoming calls are free . iPhone SIM Rental ( 3GS/4 ) is available . ¥ 1,500 per day for iPhone unlimited data communications . MyJapanPhone " Free rental " for the first week , but you must pay for shipping at rather high rates working out at at least $ 30 . After that $ 2/day . $ 0.70 / min domestic . USA $ 0.90 / min . Incoming calls are free . Extra $ 10 use email . Service tax of 15 % added to final bill . Run from the US by the people who run Panda Phone ( Chinese phone rental ) . Telecom Square ¥ 525/day . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 800-1800 if you want the phone delivered . . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 100/min ( daytime ) . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . go mobile ¥ 2,995 / week with 15 free minutes , plus ¥ 1,000 for shipping . ¥ 85/min domestic . International ¥ 100/min . Incoming calls are free . Final credit card charge can be up to 2 months after return . Inphonix ¥ 315/day ( rental fee waived for ANA passengers ) . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 1,575 if you want the phone delivered . ¥ 120/min domestic . International ¥ 150/min . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . Air 's ¥ 200/day ¥ 100/min domestic ( NO international calls ) or ¥ 160/min omestic and international . Incoming calls are free . Mobile Phone Japan ¥ 2,900 up to one week / ¥ 5,600 up to two weeks . Shipping included . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 78/min . Prepaid phones - you need to buy a top-up car
A few tidbits about Visa Debit cards ( from the USA I am guessing ) . While they work in all USA ATMs , as you discovered they are not always tied to the Plus ATM network so you need to make sure the ATM machine displays the Visa logo . If you have a choice , when outside the USA the card should be treated as a " credit card " not a " debit card " when used for POS ( points of sale ) transactions ( food , stores , gas , etc ) . The USA systems for pin based debit transactions are n't link to many countries outside . Many banks now limit the cash advance amount to the same as your ATM withdrawal limit . They used to allow you to withdraw up to your daily limit for purchases , but now most treat the advance the same as ATM transactions . If the ATM asks what account , what we call a " checking " account , many countries call a " current " account . Always let your bank known you will be traveling and where .
Coverage is specific to each policy which can vary greatly for each country so it is hard to generalise , but I 'll generalise anyway and hope it helps . As you mentioned , there are broadly two types of insurance that you need to consider : collision - which covers damage to the vehicle ; and liability - which covers damage you may inflict to others . Since insurance is a high margin area for car rental companies ( at least in the US ) it is smart to do your homework ahead of time and avoid making the decision at the counter The first place to check is your own car insurance policy , if you have one . Generally it includes liability for any car that you drive and not just the car ( s ) that you own , so that which would include a rental car . It may also include collision coverage of rental cars depending on your policy which means that you do not need to purchase any coverage from the car rental company . Some credit cards do include insurance for car rentals as a benefit , but this is specific to the particular credit card program . Call your credit card company to check the details of your coverage . If you do n't have coverage through either of those , you can purchase third-party insurance which is likely to be cheaper than purchasing through the car rental company . Depending on the car rental company , you may on occasion need to provide proof of any external insurance coverage if you decline the rental company 's coverage . Also , in the case of damaging the vehicle , you may be required to pay the rental car company for the damage and then claim it back through your insurance provider . You may also find rental companies selling personal belongings or similar protection . This is generally unnecessary as your belongings are likely covered by either your Homeowners , Contents , or Travel insurance . As a side note -- in my experience , insurance offered by the rental companies in the US is expensive ( e.g. doubles the cost of the rental ) but offers low or even zero deductibles . In Europe , the insurance offered by the rental companies is generally cheaper ( e.g. a couple euros extra per day ) but the deductible is much higher ( e.g. $ 500 - $ 1000 ) and they may require a deposit to cover it ( e.g. a hold on a credit card ) . When I first rented a card in Europe I was shocked by this and was n't prepared to cover the deposit . But now I much prefer it as I no longer have a car insurance policy and hate paying the outrageous rates when traveling back to the US and there is no high deductible option .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
You can get an Oyster card from the airport . However , it 's not available on the trains yet . You 'll have to buy a ticket at the station ( there are machines on your right as you walk into the train station at the airport ) . If you want to go to Monument , you 'll only have to change once , and you wo n't need to buy a new ticket . Buy a ticket at Gatwick to Monument - it 'll be a Day Single ticket . Catch the train to London Bridge , and once there , go down to the tube station ( you 'll see signs , so many signs ) and get the Northern Line northbound on platform 1 to Bank . Bank and Monument are interlinked . From there you can walk to Old Billingsgate . However , if you prefer a scenic walk - and it probably wo n't take you any longer and will save you some cash , as you can see <URL> , London Bridge station is pretty close . If you buy a ticket there , you can exit the station and follow the signs to London Bridge , and walk across London Bridge . As you do so , look to your right and you 'll see the famous Tower Bridge as well as the Tower of London . It 's a pretty great walk .
<URL> can be bought for $ 10 whenever you 're making a booking . This waives off the $ 2 booking fee that HostelWorld charges . ( It will not , however , waive off the 10 % downpayment . ) There are a couple of ways to get it for free though . <URL> . Every now and then , they send out Gold Card codes to new followers . I got one that was valid for six months ! Sign up for <URL> and make all your booking through it . Per night , per person you get 10 loyalty points on a booking . You also get 20 points for reviewing a hostel , and another 20 points for reviewing the city you stayed in . Now , the <URL> ( n.b. you need to be logged in ) says you need 1000 points to get a Gold Membership , but I get a goody bag instead whenever I hit 500 points which - surprise , surprise - also contains a Gold Card ! If you travel around a fair bit and make most of your bookings through HostelWorld , 500 points is an easy target to hit . Not related to the Gold Card , but every now and then HostelWorld runs contests on its homepage . Most of these contests are simple questionnaires for the purpose of signing you up for their newsletter . And in many of these contests , they offer no booking fees ( $ 2 charge + downpayment waived off ) . Keep a lookout for these too .
How does UK Visa application define a dependent ? It does n't . These types of questions reveal one of the strategies in drafting the rules ; they are vague in some places by design and intent . There is no precise definition for " dependent " in the corpus of the visitor rules , and even august authorities that nail down everything like <URL> and <URL> do not offer precision about the term " dependent " ( within the visitor domains ) . So in the absence of a definition with a legislative pedigree , we have to resort to the ' best practices ' advice for the generic case covering all ambiguities : I 'm not sure in which one should I fill up our details . You select the most appropriate according to how you interpret " dependent " and proceed . If you have doubts , you can complete both sections . They are not going to refuse on grounds of filling out the wrong section as long as all the information is represented somewhere . Take care that there 's a HUGE risk of refusal because your father is trying to take two adults with no palpable ties to their home country who may follow the pattern of going underground and making foreign remittances to their family ( and I 'm guessing that will be the outcome , but that 's just a guess ) . It means you may be focusing on the wrong things . In both cases , what supporting documents would we need in our individual applications . Happily , the answer here is canonically clear . It 's spelled out in the guidance documents : <URL> and the <URL> . Everything is there ( with some exceptions noted <URL> ) . Also canonically , if you are worried about the quality of your evidence , stay off the net and arrange a consultation with a <URL> . Note that " child " on the other hand , is the subject of both <URL> and <URL> . It is a minor 18 and under . In terms of claiming a child , the simplest case is where both distaff and spear side lineage is explicitly identified on the birth certificate , but many more complex cases are acceptable to ECO 's . Standard Visitor Visa applications will fail if the lineage is unclear , and unknowing parents have been snagged with refusals they were not expecting .
Cell phones run on two different types of networks : GSM and CDMA . These network types themselves are subdivided into various bands ( e.g. GSM 850 MHz ) . Most recent phones will support a wide range of bands within one network type . GSM is predominant in most countries except the US , which uses both . To verify that your current phone will work in another country , you first need to find out which bands your phone works on . This will be listed on the technical specifications , which you may be able to find online ( if you ca n't , try calling your carrier ) . You 'll then need to check which bands are used by carriers in the country you 're going to . Wikipedia is good for this -- for example , <URL> . Data basically works the same way , although it is a bit more complicated . Basically , there are a number of different network technologies : HSDPA , HSUPA , HSPA , HSPA + , LTE ( I 'm not sure how complete this list is ) . The best way to do this is to check Wikipedia and work backwards ( if their network supports , say , 1800 MHz LTE , you 'll want to check if your phone does ) . In addition , if your phone has not been unlocked , you will be forced to keep using your current SIM . This seems to be what you 're planning to do , but I just want to emphasize that switching to a local SIM will not work , so if your carrier is willing to unlock your phone , do get that done . The other thing to make sure to do is check with your carrier is that you do have international roaming enabled . If not , your phone basically wo n't work outside of the US , and it 's a lot easier to get that enabled before you travel instead of trying to dial your carrier from abroad .
So I 've answered a similar question somewhere on here before , but it was for freighters , so arguably different . Anyway , when I was looking into this a few years ago , I based my search on real travel a friend of mine did . She cycled from London to Christchurch , NZ by bike , and had to take boats where water got in the way . She had zero experience , but even if you have some experience , it increases the possibilities for you - on <URL> . This is for sometimes just company for the sailing parties , or to help with expenses , or to actually work on board , depending on your level . She also found going down to the marinas and just asking around also gave her quite a few leads , as there 's usually more knowledge there about which boats need people .
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
I contacted visatorussia and got a quick answer to this question : If you do not plan to stay at a hotel , please leave the field blank . A hotel will then be mentioned in your invitation for form 's sake and you will have to indicate the same hotel in your consulate application form . This way you will obtain a tourist visa with no complications and once in Russia , you will be able to choose accommodation in accordance with your convenience .
The French Consulate web site says the working holiday visa takes an average of 2 weeks , but 1 week is generally ok . We have an applicant of our <URL> program applying tomorrow , so will let you know the latest processing time . The quickest time this year has been 3 days , but it does vary .
I have not done this journey in a superjeep , only in normal transportation in summer months . But I can tell you that it is usually around a 2.5 hour journey . Its a fairly pleasant drive in my experience . During winter , Iceland only has around 4 hours of daylight per day . At worst , on the Winter Solstice ( 22nd December in 2015 ) <URL>
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
Since the card is prepaid , is there any reason to not keep using it until it cuts off ? You might want to keep it for voice use only ( where roaming charges are not as high ) as a backup or when you enter a new country and do n't have a local SIM card yet . Theoretically , you can also cash out unused credit under some circumstances , but it 's probably not worth the hassle . ( And when we that be ? There 's $ 10 of voice credit with the account . ) It depends on the details of your Belgian provider 's terms of service , but typically the roaming data usage will eat into that credit , and once it 's used up ( probably after a few MB ) it will stop working . There are some prepaid plans that will automatically top up the credit from your bank account or credit card every time it runs out , but this is usually a feature you have to activate separately ( and should , of course , avoid ) .
First of all , <URL> is very big thing , so address in the Taiga is n't much helpful for you :) Secondary , my apologies about some information is only in Russian , especially maps . The Curch of the Last Testament has their village in the <URL> . Their site is very old , and the only thing working there is the <URL> . Also they have <URL> , and there is the <URL> . <URL> is : 662925 , Krasnoyarsk Krai , Kuraginsky District , d. Petropavlovka , ul . Kolhoznaya , d. 9 . Please note that Tiberkul is named after <URL> , which is situated in 130 kilometers from Kuragino ( district center ) and in 30 kilometers from Cheremshanka village . Other villages near the lake are : Tagasuk , Zharovsk , Gulyaevka . According <URL> and <URL> , the roads to the lake is available ONLY IN WINTER - on snow ( from Gulyaevka and Cheremshanka ) . In other time , you can get there only by two methods : helicopter local citizens 's tankets and tractors :) Also <URL> is some information about some club in <URL> , which regulary goes to the lake on their off-roaders , but this is quite uncertain .
end question
start question
How much Spanish do I need to know for travelling within Spain ?
It 's hard to answer " how much " but I 'll try to provide some guidelines and background information . I have n't walked the Camino , though , so maybe some first hand information would be better . Along the path , you will go through a majority of small villages . In these villages , do not expect local people to know any other language than Spanish . Maybe people in charge of the Albergues may be able to speak some English or French . That said , in Spain the second language ( or third , depending on the zone ) taught in schools is English , followed by French . So people in their 20 's or 30 's should be able to help you out . Older people might have been taught some French , just Spanish , or did n't go to school ( post-war era was really rough in Spain ) . Also , in bigger cities along the path ( Pamplona/Iru ña , Logroño , Burgos , León or Santiago ) it should be easier to communicate in English . I think it 's a good idea to write a cheat sheet with basic things ( yes/no , how much is it ? , and so on ) and carry it with you , just in case you run out of batteries .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
BC Ferries posts a <URL> for major routes based on historical data . The information is very limited , though . For example , for Tsawwassen ( mainland ) → Swartz Bay ( Victoria ) , expected busy departures over the next two weeks are : Thursday 2015-07-30 : 11am to 8pm Friday 2015-07-31 : 11am to 9pm Saturday 2015-08-01 : 9am to 3pm Sunday 2015-08-02 : not too busy Monday 2015-08-03 ( BC Day holiday ) : noon to 6pm Tuesday 2015-08-04 : 10am to 6pm Whether that means you should make a reservation or not depends on your own risk tolerance .
A local newspaper here in Finland recently ran a fuel efficiency test that might provide some relevant data here . <URL> is , alas , in Finnish only , but I 'll summarize the results below . The test compared the fuel consumption of the test vehicle ( a <URL> D4 diesel ) , on a test route that included both highway and urban driving , in three rooftop configurations . The results were : No roof rack : 5.6 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 42 mpg ) Roof rack with <URL> aerodynamic cargo box : 5.9 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 40 mpg ) Roof mounted <URL> ski carrier with skis : 6.0 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 39 mpg ) Thus , the cargo box on the roof increased fuel consumption by about 5 % compared to the baseline . ( The full test also measured the noise level at the driver 's ear , and compared the ease of installation and various other aspects of the different options , but I 'll leave those out of this summary . Suffice to say that the cargo box caused some steady but noticeable hum , and made the car somewhat more sensitive to side winds . )
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
Playa del Carmen has a great location - about mid-way between Cancun and Tulum - both big tourist destination . Though , it can hold it 's own ... We were there for a wedding recently , and ca n't wait to go back . Here 's a list of things we enjoyed and highly recommend - The Beach at Playa Del Carmen - one of the best , and not as crowded or commercial as those in Cancun and Tulum . Tulum - The beach , the ruins ( if you are into the Mayan/Aztec culture ) , The Mezzanine restaurant has THE most spectacular views you will ever see . The Coba ruins - not sure I 'd go there again - a long drive , and Tulum and Chichen have more historic sites Chichen Itza ruins - An even longer drive , but worth it , if it 's the only site you will see . Diving into one of the many Cenotes , if you enjoy snorkeling If you have young travelers , they 'll love the " dolphin adventures " With regards to safety , a lot has been made out about the drug wars . We found it extremely safe , with no issues . Just exercise common sense - do n't venture out needlessly after hours . Eat hot food from established restaurants . If you plan on shopping at the city , make sure you are well aware of the exchange rate . We bought some art pieces , which we negotiated in US$ , only to be charged in Pesos . Needless to say , on coming back we realized the exchange rate was ridiculous .
As far as I know it 's not possible for free , but you can buy a subscription to a tool like <URL> that can look up availability on any flight : The numbers in the " Availability " column represent free seats in each fare class : in this case , Business class ( buckets J C D ) on LH401 is wide open ( 9 or more seats ) , while the same flight codeshared as UA8840 has only 4 seats per bucket free . As Doc points out , these do n't map 1:1 to empty seats , but the general trends will be pretty obvious : all 0s is packed , all 9s is empty . The obvious caveat is that , if you look at a flight far in advance and it 's still empty , it does n't necessarily mean it will still be empty on the day of the flight . Alternatively , you can use any of a number of travel sites with fare prediction capabilities to figure out when you should travel , since cheap fares tend to correlate fairly directly with the number of free seats . The original , Farecast ( bought by Microsoft and rebranded as Bing Travel ) is now gone , but <URL> now offers something similar .
The museum is quite small - 2 or 3 rooms , as I recall . Reviews on TripAdvisor suggest 1-2 hours , depending on whether you care to watch the the half hour documentary on his life . Personally , I did n't watch the entire film , and probably spent under an hour there , and I felt like I had a fairly comprehensive view of all the exhibits . Obviously if you 're an artist or someone who can view the exhibits at a much more detailed level than I can , you could take longer . I would recommend <URL> and asking how long those take .
Yes , you do need one . The US does n't share the concept of " in international transit " that a lot of other countries have . When you step off a plane on US soil [ * ] , you must clear US customs and immigration . Only then can you proceed to board your next flight . The DHS have an entry about this in their <URL> : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require travel authorization if they are only transiting the United States in route to another country ? Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require either a travel authorization or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the travel authorization application in ESTA , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination location in the address lines in the Address While In The United States field on the application . . [ * ] In a few places ( such as Canada an Ireland ) , they have juxtaposed border controls and you end up clearing US customs and immigration before boarding the plane . Either way , you still need to clear immigration on an international connection .
Smog is becoming more of a problem with urbanization , especially in developing countries with fewer restrictions on emissions control . ( <URL> ) In cities like Beijing , where it 's a serious problem , there 's often a government or city board that monitors it and provides warnings . In Beijing , that 's the The Beijing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center . Usually when smog levels are high or dangerous , they 'll release a statement . So if you 're concerned , keep an eye or ear out for their announcements . What to do about it ? Well one government , at least , has provided some suggestions . The Ministry of Environment ( MoE ) in Canada , produced a website on <URL> . The key points : avoid exertion outdoors replan activities for when smog levels are lower stay away from high traffic areas ( exhaust fumes make it worse ) stay in a well-ventilated place drink plenty of fluids if you experience any symptoms ( shortness of breath , etc ) seek medical attention ! They also have information on how you can help to reduce levels ( on the same page ) .
No , you do n't : if you 've used your USA visa at least once , you can enter Georgia visa-free for 90 days . Foreign nationals who have a multiple entry US , EU or Schengen member states visas , which have validity for one year or more and had been used once at least , can enter or stay on the territory of Georgia without visa up to 90 days , within the validity term of the visa . Source : <URL>
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
From US Department of State ( <URL> ) : " In Singapore , you may be taken in for questioning if you do n't have your passport with you . " There is also a section titles " Surrendering your Passport " that addresses surrendering your passport to police officers , hotels , or employers as a guarantee . It is common for domestic helpers to surrender their passports in Singapore . If you are required to have you passport on you at all times it is usually explicitly stated . The US DoS page for Malaysia states , " You should carry your U.S. passport and current social visit pass ( visa ) with you at all times ... " The US DoS page for Thailand states : " We strongly recommend that U.S. citizens carry proper travel documentation at all times . Thai police occasionally stop travelers in popular tourist areas to check their passports . Please carry at a minimum a copy of your U.S. passport identification page and current Thai visa to avoid detention by the Thai immigration police . "
According to <URL> , the bus will take 37 hours and cost around $ 150 , with at least 2 or 3 layovers . A direct flight should cost $ 250 and take around 3 hours .
For EU citizens <URL> but you have to make several distinctions here . The fact that the police can and does check ID does not mean it 's mandatory for everybody to have one on them . Conversely , the fact that there should be no systematic check at the border does not mean that it can not be mandatory to carry ID ( it 's the case in the Netherlands for example and yet actual checks seem rare in my experience ) . Rules can also be different for locals , EU citizens and third-country nationals . For example , regarding the first incident , French citizens are not even required to hold a national ID card at all but it 's still perfectly legal for the police to do ID checks under certain conditions , even far away from the border ( <URL> or on <URL> ) . I think that even for third-country nationals ( and certainly for French citizens ) , not having any means to prove your identity on you is not per se a punishable offense . The police might keep you for a few hours to ascertain who you are by other means or be generally unpleasant but you can not be charged with anything just because you left your passport at home . Furthermore it should be pointed out that racial profiling has long been a problem in France . I have no way to independently assess how widespread it really is but I heard many anecdotes and some organizations regularly complain about it . There are even a few official reports that acknowledged the problem and , back when he was still running for office , the current president promised a number of specific measures to deal with it . <URL> but this gives you some idea of the context . Now , under the Schengen agreement , France committed herself not to perform systematic checks at her borders . But anything else still depends on national law . For example , being part of the Schengen area does not mean that nobody can ever be asked for ID on French territory . Nor does it provide you with any practical recourse if you are victim of racial profiling or if you suspect French police is bending the rules . If France really is in breach of the Schengen agreement , this is something other EU member states and especially the EU Commission might deal with in several ways ( potentially escalating to an infringement procedure in front of the EU court of justice ) but that does not immediately help you in practice . In fact , French law even specifically allows the police to ask people for ID at all times in border areas , on international trains and <URL> . In 2011 , the Commission looked at what France was doing and <URL> but did not go further or challenge the law itself . <URL> has been writing extensively about checks at the France-Italy border and elsewhere so it seems to be a relatively common occurrence . All this also means that there are no EU or Schengen-wide rule that would definitively answer your question . It 's certainly not mandatory to always carry ID everywhere but since police checks do happen , carrying your passport seems like a good idea in practice , especially as a non-EU citizen .
If it 's booked as one trip with the same airline , then the lugggage will be checked through to the final destination with a very high likelihood . To be absolutely certain , ask the Lufthansa employee at the counter when you check in in Chennai .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
Australian citizens do not need a visa for short visits to the Schengen area ( including Germany ) , whether for business , tourism or any other purpose . However , you can not work in Germany without a specific authorization . I am not sure of the exact legal definitions but things like meeting clients , attending a trade-show , etc. are typically business activities while being employed by a German company to do something on site would be work .
Closest I could find on the subject was a discussion <URL> . With best answer being : As far as I know they are important places in terms of military and national defence ; in the border regions as Ben-E said above , offshore , and islands . For instance , some districts located in Phu Tho , Son La , and Yen Bai provinces ; Vinh Thuc island in Mong Cai district , Quang Ninh province ; Bach Long Vi island in Hai Phong City , and some islands in Thanh Hoa and Nghe An provinces and so on . In some areas , foreigners are permitted to access to for the purpose of specific business operations and a local authority official is assigned to accompany . In some of these places , even Vietnamese people are not allowed to enter as a tourist unless permission is obtained or in cases with the company of functional local authority . Most others are just news stories and the like : <URL> <URL> <URL> Best generalization is from the UK : <URL>
end question
start question
London Tube Strike : What to do ?
Getting to and from Heathrow By train The <URL> and <URL> services will operate as usual . Neither do usually accept Oyster cards , but it might be worth checking on the day . They both terminate at Paddington station ; the Connect stops at several <URL> . Travellers could get the Connect to Hayes and Harlington , then leave the train and touch in with their Oyster . All trains ( including the Connect ) accept those form that station , it seems ( but you will have to leave the train to touch in ) . By bus or coach <URL> offers connections to Central London ( e.g. Victoria station ) , and you can take <URL> ( TfL ) buses ( make sure to untick the Tube option on the Journey Planer options page ) . They will take a long time , and you will have to change a few times ( Hounslow , White City or Hammersmith , most likely ) , but they will get you there . Plus they take the Oyster card , and there are <URL> ( see legend/map keys ) . See <URL> for travel to other destinations . ( Cf. <URL> . ) Other means of transport You can get a black cab ( <URL> , especially from/to LHR ) or a taxi ( usually cheaper , but ask ) , or even <URL> . <URL> has more information . ( Update : <URL> , taxis in London are synonymous to black cabs , while minicabs are " private hire vehicles " - which I - but possibly nobody else here - call " taxi " , probably because that 's the word I 'd use in German or French . Black cabs can be hailed ( or flagged down ) , the drivers are very knowledgeable and they are generally more regulated . Hence the higher price . <URL> . So , to summarise , a black cab is a taxi , and a minicab is n't , but will still get you home or to the airport . But you could always get an <URL> car if unsure , I suppose . ) Transport around the airport Transport within the <URL> is - you guessed it - free on certain local buses and trains ( but not the tube ) . Elsewhere <URL> connects London to Heathrow , Luton , Stansted and Gatwick . This is your best bet for LHR-Shepherd 's Bush , by the way . Remember , National Rail in <URL> , TfL Overground , DLR , Tramlink , Buses ( <URL> ) , Riverboats and the Airline ( cable car ) should all operate and should accept Oyster cards ( although not all accept weekly Travelcards , I think ) , so once you 're in London , <URL> outside of the rush hour should n't be a problem . To the contrary , you 'll actually be able to see the city much better that way . :) If you have a UK address , you could also join a <URL> ( see the page 's right-hand column ) , but do n't expect to find a car during a tube strike ... ;-) Ride by bike ( for the adventurous and daring ) TfL <URL> ( previously sponsored by Barclays , and locally known as Boris Bikes , after the current Mayor under whom they were introduced ) are available throughout travel zone 1 and parts of travel zone 2 , and they should be available during a strike , but I have had mixed feelings about them : They are fun to get through the Royal Parks ( although not all paths are open to cyclists ) and on side roads a bit away from the busy city centre . In the touristy bits of London , though , there are n't many dedicated cycle routes , and you 'll often have to share a lane with buses and taxis . Buses , by their nature , are on a schedule , so they will overtake you , just to pull in right in front of you to stop at the next bus stop . And being chased by a bus makes for a somewhat unpleasant experience . On the roads , people will try to overtake you , especially at traffic lights , no matter if there is enough space or not , and often force you dangerously close to the curb , if you travel on the side of your lane . It 's therefore super important to <URL> , contrary to what you are used to from home . But even then , I was once nearly run over twice in the span of fifteen minutes . That 's why I now consider Boris Bikes the fastest way to your local A&amp;E . They do only take payment cards , but no Oyster . Also remember that people drive on the " wrong " - as opposed to the right - side of the road . And unless your suitcase has four wheels , taking it along might prove a tiny bit difficult . ;-) <URL> <URL> . You can pay using an Oyster card ( which is sold at all tube stations and some news agents ) or by contactless payment card . Bear in mind , though , that your card issuer 's transaction fee might well exceed the price of the actual ticket if you have a foreign card . You can load travelcards or cash on your Oyster , and daily and weekly ( Monday to Friday , I think ) capping is in place . Payment cards have daily and rolling weekly ( 7 days ) capping , I think . And if you have a travel card for any <URL> you get buses free in all of them , if I remember correctly . Oyster cards " cost " a 5 pound deposit , which you can <URL> when invalidating them at a ticket machine ( e.g. at the airport , when you leave ) , along with any unused cash loaded onto the card . Just make sure what remains on it is less than a tenner ; otherwise you 'll have to go to a ticket counter , fill out a form , and provide proof of address and maybe even a local bank account ( do n't know for sure about the last po
Use Wikipedia . The names of the cities have a phonetic transcription and very often an audio file . You just have to read , listen and practice . It is important that you practice aloud ! Here are some examples : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes there is : <URL> , specifically the <URL> , which offers sensible alternatives automatically . For example , if you enter a query like " <URL> " , it will tell you that you can take the Tube ( every 2 min , estimated time 6 min ) and that you could just walk it ( estimated time 11 min ) .
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
Absolutely ! And not only you can , it is one of the best ways to explore the City ! My favourite place to start the journey is from Hyde Park - right by the Serpentine Lake is a nice place to eat a sandwich and start skating , while you see some people dancing on rollers and quads . There are also some places to rent inlines in case you ca n't take yours with you near Hyde Park ( <URL> and <URL> come to my mind ) . They usually provide skate pads as well . You may want to attend the <URL> ( London Friday Night Skate ) weekly meetings - on Fridays and Sundays - , which are very well organised and safe , as they always have marshals holding the traffic while the rest of the people just enjoy the ride . It is run by volunteers , and the people is just great . I ca n't recommend these rides enough . If you want to go solo , you can either go by road or on the sidewalks ( but please be careful if you do so ) . The police officers will not disturb you unless they find that you are annoying the rest of the pedestrians . By the way , keep looking the road ahead of you , as London roads are far from perfect and there may be holes in the ground or even rubber cables crossing the road side to side . Some other must-skate places in London are Greenwich park , Kensington and Chelsea boroughs and Oxford St. / Regent St. ( these one on Sunday mornings , as they are a bit too crowded otherwise ) .
Without any relevant exception I can think of , there is no such thing as an " area between land borders " . A land border between two countries follow in almost all cases a very well defined path and what you actually mean is the area between two border control posts . If you e.g. locate the border crossing on E75 between Hungary and Serbia on <URL> , you can see that the actual border is pretty much exactly in the middle between the checkpoints . So , even if you travel from Hungary to Serbia on this road , have passed the Hungarian checkpoint and for immigration purposes technically left Hungary , you are still in Hungary until you cross the border .
All Eurostar services are subject to Juxtaposed border controls . That means you clear the UK border somewhere on the Continent ( generally in France , except for Brussels where it 's in Belgium ) , and hence you also exit Schengen there too . Depending on the station , after Eurostar checkin you either do security first then France/Belgium exit then UK entry , or France/Belgium exit then UK entry then security . Because of this , only stations that are fully setup with local and UK border staff on hand + appropriate facilities + segregated platforms can act as the " final " departure station for a Eurostar train . Pretty much , that means the " initial " set of Eurostar stations . That covers the " normal " ones of Calais / Lille / Paris / Brussels , plus the " special " ones running from the beginning of Disneyland Resort ( Marne-la-Vallée / Chessy ) and 2 of the Ski stations ( Bourg St Maurice / Moutiers ) . There is a full border screening area on arrival in the UK at St Pancras . However , it 's not normally in use , and you just walk through it before you walk through customs . Very very occasionally , it 's in use , and you have to re-clear UK immigration on arrival in St Pancras , showing them your passport and often your ticket too . I 'm told that this tends to only happen when the police or border staff decide they want to speak with someone between the time they cleared the Juxtaposed border and arrival into London . I 'd say I 've had it maybe 1 in every 20 trips . For all other Eurostar services , such as the new one serving Lyon and Marseille , there is n't the secure platform nor the border staff nor the space for immigration . So , for these trains , they stop them at Lille + get everyone off + get them through security + immigration in Lille , before re-boarding and carrying on to the UK . This takes about an hour , but does mean there 's no 30 minute checkin time before leaving France . . There is one special other case which I think might be confusing you - Eurostar sell through tickets including a French TGV connection to a range of French stations , including some that they also run their own trains to . With those , coming back , you take a regular French TGV as far as Paris or Lille , then go through the normal Eurostar checking + immigration + security there before boarding your Eurostar . Eurostar run only 3-5 direct trains per week to Disneyland Resort / Marne-la-Vallée , number depending on season and demand . At all other times , if you ask Eurostar to sell you a ticket to Marne-la-Vallée , they 'll actually sell you a return to Lille plus TGV tickets to/from Lille to Marne-la-Vallée . If you book one of those services , then you wo n't be on a Eurostar all the way to Disney , and you 'll do immigration + security when you change from TGV to Eurostar in Lille . . Otherwise , handy quick test for your journey : If the journey has no changes and the duration is about the same ( + -10 minutes ) for the UK-Continent and Continent-UK directions , you 'll do security + immigration at your starting station in France/Belgium If the journey has connections ( eg London to Lille , Lille to Marne-la-Vallée ) , you 'll do security + immigration after your TGV leg but before your Eurostar leg on the way back If the journey has no changes but the return duration is about an hour longer on the return ( eg London-Lyon in 4 hours 40 , Lyon-London in 5 hours 45 ) , you 'll be kicked off your Eurostar partway through the journey in Lille , to go through security + immigration in Lille
It is not a pleasant situation for both of them - the passenger or the large passenger . It is very uncomfortable for the passenger and totally embarrassing for the large guy . In addition to that , it is uncomfortable and embarrassing for the staff . Unfortunately , there is no one single rule that applies here ; each airline has its own policy regarding this . What you should do before the flight takes off If the large person 's body is invading your space and you have noticed this during boarding , make sure to speak to one of the cabin crew members immediately . Make it their problem . You are paying for a seat and it is your right to get a full seat , not a part of one . Remember , the only time you can report this case is on the ground . It is the perfect time for crew or ground staff to find another seat either for you or for the large person , or to find another solution in the case that there are no spare seats . Once the doors are closed and the plane is moving without you talking about it , you have given complicit agreement to this situation and no one can do much about it in most cases . What the staff will do This depends on the airline . Some airlines make large people pay ; some others upgrade large people to business or first class for free as a part of their services ( the airline I work for does this if no two seats are available in economy class ) . You could get lucky and get moved to a higher class and leave your seat for the other passenger . Either way , your problem should be solved before the plane takes off . Things to keep in mind This is an odd and embarrassing situation . Make sure to talk in private with the cabin crew to avoid embarrassing the sized passenger publicly . Depending on the airline , the sized passenger can be deplaned from the airplane or asked to pay for an extra seat . You may also be asked if you would like to wait for another flight ! Anything is possible if no extra seats are available .
In my eyes 7/7 is shorthand for French which translates to . Meaning the business is open all week . Note that this does not necessarily mean that the business is also open 24h . Indeed in France you often read written on shops that are open every day of the week ( note the little , standing for == ) . For example , take <URL> showing a list of 24h businesses , and look at the description of the 24h pharmacy : Pharmacie ouverte 24h/24 et 7j/7 à Paris
Think about what your luggage goes through from the time you check it until you get it back . It travels on automatic conveyor belts . In many situations , it must be shunted from one conveyor belt to another . This is done by machines , not humans . The machines can not see the " fragile " tag . It is moved from conveyor-belt to dolly by a human . The human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . It is packed in the cargo hold by humans . Depending on the orientation of the item , the human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . When they pack it in the cargo hold , they may put other bags on top of it . It spends some time outside , exposed to the elements . No matter how many fragile tags you put on , there will come a point where your suitcase must make its way up the conveyor belt into the aircraft . If it is raining , snowing , cold , or hot , it will be exposed to the elements at this point . It spills out of an automatic conveyor line onto a rotating baggage carousel . As it rotates on the carousel , other bags may fall on top of it . Other passengers may pick it up , thinking it 's their bag , and handle it . When they discover it 's not theirs , they may , or may not , honor the " Fragile " sticker . Oh , and let 's not forget : It flies through the air , at 40,000 feet , at 600 miles per hour . It may encounter bad weather or turbulence , causing intensive shaking of the contents for a prolonged period of time . When all is said and done , it 's a miracle anything gets anywhere unscathed , " fragile " sticker notwithstanding .
Per the <URL> , Egyptian citizens generally do need a visa to transit either landside or <URL> in London but can be exempted in some cases . Travelling to the US is one of those cases , having an EEA residence permit is another one . You might be eligible for the ' transit without visa concession ' if : you arrive and depart by air have a confirmed onward flight which leaves within 24 hours have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : [ ... ] you have a valid uniform format residence permit issued by an EEA state The first three conditions must be fulfilled to qualify , which seems to be the case for you . Your Greek residence permit gives you the right to enter Italy as both countries are part of the Schengen area ( I am assuming you have a <URL> , if not then this answer might not apply ) . But you only need to fulfill one of the other conditions in the list ( in fact , it seems impossible to fulfill them all ) and you told us that you do fulfill one of them ( namely having a residence permit by an EEA state , as Greece is indeed a member of the EEA ) . So flying to Italy instead of the US should not be a problem if you fulfill the other relevant conditions . That said , asking the embassy or even applying for a visa can not hurt if you want to be absolutely sure ( the visa does cost something ) . You can also ask your airline , as they will want to check your visa status before carrying you to the UK .
This is due to the Common Travel Area Zone ( <URL> ) and is not a mistake . The assumption is that anyone entering the Zone has already been checked by Immigration when entering the Zone . Eg , if you travelled from the US to Ireland you would pass through Irish Immigration . The UK then trusts that Ireland has completed the relevant checks .
Generally shopping malls in Taipei open by 11 AM but other shops open by 10am . It says here : <URL> Working hours department and other stores are 10:00 -9:30 pm ( some stores upto 22h ) This page says <URL> Shops are open daily 1000-2200 , while night markets stay open till 0100 and convenience shops are open 24 hours . As for shopping markets , including <URL> ( boai road ) , you can see here : <URL> <URL>
I lived in London for four years . Perhaps I just did n't appreciate it , but I ca n't say I really was that aware of the class system on a day-to-day basis . Sure , you were aware that in Peckham in South London there tended to be a lower socio-economic ' category ' of people than say , Kensington . And yes in Mayfair there were the private members ' clubs and the like . And certainly the race day events tended to attract certain people . However , I , and others like myself who were there for a few years ( from NZ , Aus , South Africa , Canada and more ) did n't see it as a limiting factor . If we wanted to go to the races , we would , and just dress up for the occasion . Bond Street is just a place to shop , the prices are higher , is all . Nothing stopping you strolling along and having a look . It 's funny , every so often a comment would crop up about it . Someone at work would make a comment about not taking the bus because they were n't poor enough to need it ( or the tube ) . Yet , the current Mayor of London bikes to work , and the previous Mayor used to take the tube ( still does , last I checked ) . And most of us Kiwis or Aussies etc , whether from rich or poor backgrounds - we 'll take buses , tubes without hesitation - they 're quicker , convenient , and driving in London is awful . ' Class ' certainly did n't stop me getting into the Buckingham Palace garden tea party :) In general , the UK has become ( well , London , but other cities more and more as well ) so cosmopolitan and multicultural that in some facets of society , the class system has all but melted away . That 's not to say that some people do n't still hold it true and fast and insist on it and campaign against it when a fast food restaurant wants to open in Highbury ( it 'll lower their class somehow ? ) , but on the whole , most people you meet are welcoming no matter your background . As some people have said , in London - nobody 's a foreigner , because everyone 's a foreigner !
Since there is only eight hours of daylight in London in January I would suggest you take the afternoon class . If you take the morning class then most of the daylight hours will taken up studying inside . It is probably safer and more enjoyable to wander around an unfamiliar city during daylight . For typical sunrise / sunset hourse see : <URL>
In this case , first , you want a live tube map with Google maps underneath . <URL> ( yes , those are the trains moving on the map ! ) As you can now clearly , see , this gives you a couple of options - the District Line ( Green ) and the Central Line ( Red ) . Upminster ( end of the District line ) is your closest stop there.There is a parking lot right next to the tube station , with a couple of hundred parks . The Google Maps satellite view shows that during the day even , this is n't totally full . Epping ( end of the Central Line ) is your second option . This is just near the junction of the M25 and the M11 . It too , has a big parking area next to the station . The downside here is that on Google Maps , it 's showing as completely full . Of course , you ca n't know for sure what time of day these images were taken . Personally I 'd go for the Epping one if you 're getting in early - the District line is one Londoners will not usually trust for reliability , and if you 're early enough you wo n't have to worry about the car park filling up too much . It 's also conveniently close to your M11 turn-off junction .
Scotland is a big place and there is allot to see in every location . Additionally , the roads on the west coast , such as in Skye , are not fast roads . They twist and turn around mountains and lochs . 20 miles as the crow flies could work out as 100 miles of actual driving . To cover all those locations you 'd spend about 4 days constantly driving and you 'd really see nothing . Focus on say 3 days for one or two cities and then the rest of the week for highland touring . The order of events might be different from what I post . Scottish weather is very changeable . You should try to do city based things on wet days and keep drives in the countryside to sunny days . For cheap accommodation , opt for Bed and Breakfast ( B&amp;B ) rather than hotels . Youth hostels are also a good option . Remember that in peak season , accommodation can be scarce . Book in advance and make use of the Tourist Information centres in each town/village to find out about availability . Day 1 : Edinburgh : Start at the castle : budget about 2 hours to see around . Camera Obscura : Next to the castle entrance and has interesting displays and views of the whole city . Budget an hour . Walk down the Royal Mile . On the way , stop into St. Gyles Cathedral ( 20 mins ) . Find a restaurant near here to eat lunch . Continue down the Mile and visit Hollyrood Palace and the nearby Parliament buildings . If the weather is fine , go to one of the parks for late afternoon . Such as Hollyrood , Princes Gardens , Botanical Gardens . If the weather is poor , head to one of the many museums or the National Gallery . Day 2 : Glasgow : Do this on a wet day as it 's mostly indoors stuff . Museums : Choose one of : Transport Museum , Kelvengrove Museum and Art Gallery , Clyde Built , Science Museum , Scotland Street School Museum . Glasgow has some of the best Indian restaurants . Best time to go is lunch time as most do a low priced lunch menu . Afternoon go shopping in the city centre . Pop into Willow Tea Rooms for afternoon tea , coffee and scones and enjoy the Art Deco furnishings created by Rennie Mackintosh . Late afternoon go to the Necropolis for a atmospheric , if spooky , end to the day . In the evening , enjoy the Glasgow night life in the Merchant City and around George Square . Highlands : In my opinion , the highlands are best approached from Glasgow rather than from Edinburgh . The A81/A812 runs north through the Trossachs . The A82 runs up Loch Lomond side , through Glen Coe and on up to Fort William , Loch Ness and Inverness . The A83 will take you norht then west into Argyle Day 3 : Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park : Head out of Glasgow on the A81 towards Aberfoyle . Stop in at the Glengoyne Distillery to sample the whisky . Remember no drinking and driving . When you get near Aberfoyle , turn left onto the A821 . Pause occasional to admire the views . Stop at Loch Katrine and take the steam boat up and down the loch . Continue on the A821 then right onto the A85 to Callader . Walk through the village and find somewhere here for lunch . Backtrack on the A85 and head north . Again Pausing occasionally at view points . Continue north and west to Crianlarich then turn south on the A82 . At Tarbot , turn left onto the A83 and continue towards Inveraray . Find lodings near here for the night . Day 4 : Argyle : After viewing Ineraray Jail and the Castle , drive south on the A83 to Lochgilphead . Turn left onto the A816 and head north . Stop of at the ancient ruins along this road including Dunadd fort site , the stone circles and chamber cairns at and the church and ancient gravestones at Kilmartin Church and the neighbouring house museum . There is also the ruined Carnasserie Castle in this area which is worth looking at . Continue on to Oban . Lodge here overnight . Visit the McCaigs Tower and walk along the sea front . This is an excellent place to try the Scottish favourite dish - Fish &amp; Chips . For the best experience , take the food out of the restaurant and eat on the sea front . Day 5 : Islands : No trip to Scotland would be complete without visiting on of the islands . Leaving the car in Oban , take the ferry to Mull . Ferries run from Oban to the Isle of Mull and back 6 times daily in summer . <URL> at <URL> . On the island you have a choice of things to see , but not time for everything . Either head south to Iona Abby . This famous Christian site is very interesting . Or else go north to Tobermory - picturesque fishing village . Since you are not driving , you may stop in a the Tobermory Distillery and enjoy a dram of whisky . There is also a distillery in Oban too . Make sure you get back in time for the last ferry to Oban . Again overnight here . Day 6 : Glen Coe : Take the A85 east out of Oban , pause to view the Falls of Laura at Connel Bridge then head north on the A828 towards Fort William . Pause just outside Portnacoish to view the scenery overlooking Castle Stalker . Try to find some hotel before Ballachulish for lunch . Join the A82 east/south signed for Glasgow . This will take you through Glen Coe . Drive
The specific terms under which an airline will rebook you , refund you , or otherwise are laid out in its Contract of Carriage ( or Conditions of Carriage ) , which in turn may be constrained by regulations in the country where the airline is based or where the flight is operated , as well as various international treaties . In the event of bad weather , most U.S.-based airlines will attempt to reschedule you on a later flight on the same airline . Naturally , this works out better on routes where there are twelve daily departures than where there are one , as with many international routes . Because phenomena like bad weather , volcanoes , sunspots , air traffic control restrictions , and the like affect all airlines , they are unlikely to endorse your ticket to a different carrier , unless the situation is extraordinary , or you are an extraordinarily high value customer to them . If you can not wait two days for the next available seat , they may issue a travel voucher or partial refund . For example , according to the <URL> , bad weather ( " meteorological conditions " ) constitutes a " Force Majeure Event " : American may , in the event of a force majeure event , without notice , cancel , terminate , divert , postpone or delay any flight or the right of carriage or reservation of traffic accommodations without liability except to issue an involuntary refund . The involuntary refund will be made in the original form of payment in accordance with involuntary refund rules for any unused portion of the ticket . American will also reserve the right to determine if any departure or landing should be made without any liability except the afore mentioned involuntary refund . Force majeure events encompass quite a few things that it is difficult to plan for ; from the <URL> these include a ) Any condition beyond UA 's control including , but not limited to , meteorological or geological conditions , acts of God , riots , terrorist activities , civil commotions , embargoes , wars , hostilities , disturbances , or unsettled international conditions , either actual , anticipated , threatened or reported , or any delay , demand , circumstances , or requirement due directly or indirectly to such condition ; b ) Any strike , work stoppage , slowdown , lockout , or any other labor-related dispute involving or affecting UA 's services ; c ) Any governmental regulation , demand or requirement ; d ) Any shortage of labor , fuel , or facilities of UA or others ; e ) Damage to UA 's Aircraft or equipment caused by another party ; f ) Any emergency situation requiring immediate care or protection for a person or property ; or g ) Any event not reasonably foreseen , anticipated or predicted by UA . Given that , I would say the best real protection is purchasing an insurance policy that will cover you in the event of the above situations , either by reimbursing you room and board while you wait or for alternative transportation . Be careful , though , as much travel insurance in fact excludes these very same conditions .
You should not apply for a tourist visa , but apply for an " <URL> " instead . You ask the EuroPython to send you an invitation letter and then use that to <URL> . The <URL> should be in Italian .
Let 's assume that " London " is any major mainline station - they 're all reasonably central and well-connected for onward journeys - and that you 're only interested in rail not buses or taxis . All but one ( Luton ) have a station connected directly to the airport , though getting out of the terminal and to the station is quicker for some than for others . I have n't counted travel time to get to the airport station for any of them except Luton . All fares are single and assume no railcards , offers , etc. . Unless clearly stated , no change of transport en route . Trains per hour are during the day on a weekday . Gatwick Gatwick Express to Victoria . 30 minutes . # 19.90 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to Victoria . 35-40 minutes . # 15.40 single . Around five trains per hour . Local train to London Bridge . 35-55 minutes . # 9 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to St. Pancras . 55-70 minutes . # 10 single . Four trains per hour . There are also direct rail connections to Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , Brighton , Eastbourne , &amp; Portsmouth . Through train to Luton Airport Parkway . Luton Local train to St. Pancras . 25-45 minutes , plus 10 minute bus ride to the station from the airport . # 14 single plus bus ticket ( # 2 single ) . About seven trains per hour ( varies ) . There are also direct rail connections to Leicester , Nottingham , Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , and even Brighton . Through train to Gatwick . City Docklands Light Railway . No direct connection to a mainline station but 20 minutes to Bank ( equally central ) or go to Canning Town and then change to the Jubilee Line to London Bridge ( 22m ) or Waterloo ( 25m ) . Single fare is # 4.90 cash , # 3.30 Oyster ( peak ) , # 2.80 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Frequent service . If you are heading out of London to the east , you can also take the DLR to Stratford ( for Essex ) or Stratford International ( for Kent ) Heathrow Piccadilly Line tube to King 's Cross . ~ 1 hour , or a little less to somewhere like Piccadilly Circus - this is one of the few to go across London so you can get off in the middle ! Single fare is # 6 cash , # 5.10 Oyster ( peak ) , # 3.10 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Six trains per hour ( T4 &amp; T5 ) , or twelve trains per hour ( T2/3 ) Heathrow Connect to Paddington . 25-35 minutes , # 10.20 single . Two trains per hour . Heathrow Express to Paddington . 15-20 minutes ( depending on terminal ) , # 22 single . Four trains per hour . Southend Local train to Liverpool Street . ~ 55 minutes . # 16.80 single ( # 15.80 off-peak ) . Three trains per hour , one per hour on Sundays . Stansted Stansted Express to Liverpool Street . 45-55 minutes . # 19 single . Four trains per hour . Direct connections to Cambridge , Peterborough , Leicester , and ( believe it or not ) Birmingham . City is of course the clear winner on both price and time , but some others are better than I expected ...
end question
start question
Tour to Fukushima closed area ?
Officially or even semi officially no . The plant is still owned by TEPCO so arranging it with them would probably give you a better access and safer tour if they choose to allow it . However , there are other options if you choose to consider them . There is a <URL> or a <URL> virtual tour . Or finally you can try to get a <URL> of the area but there are no contacts given so you may want to consider the repercussions of doing so and what kind of access you will be able to get remains a mystery .
No , the logic is quite clear , the rule applies to a person . Having several short-stay visas from the same or from different countries in the area would not help either , the visa conditions ( including whether you need one or not ) and the duration of stay are two separate things . Formally , it would however seem possible to alternate between three months in the UK and three months in Schengen area indefinitely , even with only one citizenship and multiple entry visas for each country . But border guards in either the Schengen area or the UK could still become suspicious about the real purpose of your stays .
A two-year tour of <URL> ( 962 places ) is now available , offered by a British luxury company . By the way , it costs about 1 million pounds . It claims to cover all the sites if they are safely accessible . <URL> lists some of the stops .
Short answer : No , not for ordinary mortals . In the 1990 's they hosted a wonderful 4th of July party , but 9/11 took care of that in short order . It is hard enough to get in when you want to discuss something ... As we have very limited counter space and no private area where we could discuss your case I would discourage you from coming in to the Embassy . We only ask people to come into the Embassy if there is mandatory requirement that they be seen in person . Source : email from the <URL> The <URL> used to operate a walk-in service , which is being curtailed . If you have a newborn baby who has a claim on US citizenship , you can still get in . It 's a large room with some nursery fixtures like a play box . There 's about a dozen windows where you get called up according to your number . The ambience is strollers everywhere with screaming babies in various states of distress . Mothers getting angry about the waiting times ... The odd diaper change ... Normally there 's a few people waiting to speak to Social Security or the Veteran 's Administration . A bottled water vending machine ... A confectionery vending machine ... A literature stand with every kind of brochure known to mankind about paying your taxes on time ... Not much of touring material . There 's an altogether separate facility for people wanting to join the Navy , etc. . People who want to speak to a Navy ( etc ) Recruiter or enlist will get sent there . Asylum seekers will get swarmed upon by the UK police and hauled away to Yarl 's Wood ; you ca n't get in that way . You 'll observe from Grosvenor Square that there 's a forward control point outside to screen visitors . You need to be on their list of people with appointments for that day . Americans have one queue , non Americans have their own queue . Source : <URL> If they find a mobile or camera , you 'll be sent back to a pharmacy near Oxford Street to check it in , and then when you return you can wait in the queue all over again . You ca n't even access the forward control point if you have a mobile on your person . I do n't know the procedure for your specific example about US Savings Bonds . My guess is that they would look in your passport and see you arrived just a few days earlier and probably that you acquired the bonds stateside and conclude that it 's too dodgy and then turn you over to the British police who would ' ask ' you to leave the Grosvenor Square vicinity . But that 's strictly a guess . Opinion divides about what a ' tour ' is . So far , this answer has addressed just getting in to the waiting room and consular area . The embassy itself is in an altogether different part of the building which you ca n't even see from the consular area . It even has its own entrance ( which ca n't be seen from the street ) . So if ' tour ' means entering the Embassy from Blackburne 's Mews and then seeing the reception hall , the gallery , the ball room , the dining room , the state room , the ambassador 's office and such . Plus any back office parts like the kitchen , the ceremonial unit barracks , or whatever , then the answer becomes even more trenchant . My advice : forget it . This answer is for <URL> . Of course foreign dignitaries and congressional aides can get in and see what it looks like . Note that local residents in and around Grosvenor Square bitterly and stridently want the US Embassy gone because the security is a blight on the neighbourhood . So perhaps this answer will change when and if the Embassy is re-sited .
There are really dozens of tour operators that offers tours to the Salt Mines . I would recommend to use collect some flyers and compare the conditions . I personally can recommend the tour that is provided by the <URL> . They have an agreement with a tour operator that picks you up directly in front of the hostel and then drives you there in a comfortable minibus . After the tour you 're picked up at the mines and you can again leave the minibus directly in front of the hostel or in the old town center . The price was 10 Euro per person including everything , which I personally think is very reasonable . But we got a student discount of 50 % , so the normal price is a little bit higher . I assume that other tour operators have more or less the same offers .
I feel you are worried about the difficulty and quality of the roads , so I 'll address that . The main roads are well maintained asphalt and it is easy to drive to the most popular spots like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There are many gravel side roads and in some of the areas they are the only option ( West/East Fjords , including parts of the Ring Road ) , but they are quite well maintained as well . If you are a careful driver , you will be ok . Especially if you decide to go for a car with higher clearance and bigger tires . Unless you plan to drive deep into the interior , I would n't say you need to worry about very difficult driving conditions . That being said , if you are afraid to drive on narrow roads that are not asphalt and have no idea on how to change a wheel in case of a tire puncture , you may need to be extra careful . As for the bus tours . In my opinion having your own car is always better , because you can take your time and enjoy scenery on your own pace . But that is whole another discussion . EDIT : Two useful links when planning a road trip in Iceland : <URL> <URL>
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
This totally depends on the country , each country has different rules . Wikipedia has a page dedicated to <URL> . Check the countries you will visit before brining your knife with you . Same thing goes for pepper spray , it is different from one country to another , again Wikipedia has a page dedicated to <URL> . Stun guns are a bad choice as they are illegal in most European countries .
Welcome to the wonderful world of airline pricing ! Exactly how trips are priced will depend on a number of factors including the airline and the exact time you 're flying , but as a generic answer ... Flights are normally prices on a per-leg basis , and then the price for each leg is combined to make up the total trip price . When you fly a round-trip , the prices for each leg will often be cheaper than if you just buy a one-way ticket . Open-jaw trips are normally priced at the same price ( per leg ) as round-trip trips , so normally you 'd expect the overall prices to be similar for a round-trip as they are for a open-jaw . So , when you buy NYC - > ABC and DEF - > NYC , it 's fairly simple - it 'll be the round-trip/open-jaw price for each of those legs combined . However if you buy NYC - > ABC , ABC - > DEF , DEF - > NYC there 's a number of ways it could be priced . The obvious way is that the prices for each of those three legs could be calculated and added together . This is normally referred to as a " circle fare " , and obviously it is always going to be more than paying for the open-jaw as it 's basically the open-jaw plus an extra flight . However , it could also be priced as NYC-ABC , ABC-NYC with a stopover at DEF . Or as NYC-DEF with a stopover at ABC , and DEF-NYC . Picking the first of these an as example ( NYC-ABC , ABC-NYC with a stopover in DEF ) , you 're now no longer purchasing a ticket to DEF , but a return trip NYC-ABC . If flights to ABC are cheaper than DEF - which they could be for any reason including more competition on that flight , a sale on at the moment , etc , then you 're obviously going to pay less . Some airlines will charge you a little more for a stopover along the way whilst some will allow a single stopover for free - but even if you have to pay for it it 's generally going to be cheap . Most good travel booking websites will automatically look at the options available and work out the cheapest option for you . ie , they will compare the prices for the circle-fare option , the NYC-ABC return with a stopover , and the NYC-DEF return with a stopover options and then allow you to book the cheapest of the 3 . As an similar example , I recently had to book a ticket SFO-LHR which was going to cost around $ 1200 . However I decided that I wanted to spend a few days in Istanbul on the way back , so I decided to try and book SFO-LHR-IST-SFO ( with multiple days in both LHR and IST ) . You would expect that this would cost more , as clearly it 's a much longer flight , however it actually cost only $ 1000 - cheaper that the direct option . The reason was that it actually priced out as being SFO-IST , IST-SFO . ie , technically I bought a round-trip ticket to Istanbul , and just happened to have a stopover in London on the way . Airfares to Istanbul at the time were cheaper than airfares to London , so even after paying ~ $ 100 extra to have a " stopover " in London , it still came out $ 200 cheaper !
I did some research and collected various answers : From <URL> there are two possibilities : Air : As stated , access to Canaima National Park is by air to the village of Canaima , about 50 km away from the falls . From there , you take either a smaller plane and fly to an airstrip at Canaima Lagoon , or travel by river to the lagoon . From the lagoon , you hike to a view point of the falls . There are also daily flights via Puerto Ordaz connecting Canaima airstrip with the major cities of Venezuela . The airstrip is a short jeep-train ride from nearby Lodges . Check flights from your area to Caracas or other Venezuelan cities with connections to Ciudad Bolicar and Canaima . From this page , you can also browse hotels , rental cars , and special deals . Water : From Canaima , when the water is neither too high or too low , you can travel by motorized canoe , called curiara up the Carrao River , then the Churun river to an point where you can then hike through the jungle to the falls . The river portion takes about four hours , and you should allow an hour or more for the hike . Canoe access to Angel Falls is restricted to the rainy season , June to November . From <URL> Angel Falls is one of Venezuela 's top tourist attractions , though a trip to the falls is a complicated affair . The falls are located in an isolated jungle , and a flight from Puerto Ordaz or Ciudad Bolívar is required to reach Canaima camp , the starting point for river trips to the base of the falls . River trips generally take place from June to December , when the rivers are deep enough for the wooden curiaras used by the Pemon guides . During the dry season ( December to March ) there is less water seen than in the other months . Very interesting information can be found on <URL> . They do not only explain how to get there but also mention a price and duration . Similar information can be found on <URL> . They also explain in very detail how to get there .
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
If you are wealthy , like people of that time who completed the Grand Tour , you may be interested in the offers of <URL> . Most European great cities are visited : London , Paris , Vienna , Prague , Budapest , Venice , Istanbul ...
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
Fortunately for you , <URL> . As the link indicates , the act is mostly inoperative , and : " ... as a result most shops and businesses may open whenever they please , including on Sundays and public holidays . " Supermarkets and convenience stores are often open longer on Sundays . The only small issue if you want to get started early , is that off-license shops that sell alcohol are not permitted to do so on Sundays until after 12.30 pm .
This train is cancelled because of political crisis between Russia and Georgia ( as I think , because the route was on rebel territories , and this was definitely done according to the orders from Russian president ) . For now air and automobile connections are started to being reestablished , but not the train . All you can do - use the <URL> ( Sorry , only a Russian site ) - there is no border problem when using it , and there are trains from <URL> to <URL> . Armenia had no borders with Russia , and I do n't think you should use trains to Yerevan . Update : About the old trains . I found <URL> . According to it the <URL> , so for now it is closed , and there is not any chance Russia and Georgia will create a new one in the near future . There was a narrow gauge railway between Tskhinvali and Vladikavkaz , and it is closed now too . Another update : About the rest part of the railroad - yes , you can use it , and for now there is a <URL> between Moscow and <URL> ( the capital of Abkhazia ) , which uses exactly the same railroad .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
but there are a lot of blogs online about that stuff and it seems pointless to add another . There are never enough blogs on any topic . See <URL> . What things to consider especially for travel blogs ? the backend ( where you create your content and config your blog ) should be accessible from mobile devices ; if it 's no fun / not easy , you 'll probably do n't post so much if a problem occurs , you should be able to handle/fix it on tour ( or contact someone who can do it for you ) backups should be done automatically ( e.g. send a database dump daily to a separate mail account ) if you use internet cafés and/or untrusted networks , your password could be stolen ; do n't use an admin account to post/edit content ; but have admin login available for emergencies ( e.g. to delete compromised user accounts ) good <URL> : functionality to add new posts by email Self-hosting vs. 3rd party service Self-hosting advantages you get exactly what you want it 's your content , you have full control , you can backup it ( some services allow this , too , but not all ) no policies , no censorship , no rules , no service terms you can fix any problems yourself ( and do n't have to wait for the provider to do it ) you can create/use accounts with lesser privileges ( security ) disadvantages costs more time costs money ( hosting ) need to know that stuff ( resp . dig into it ) you have to update the software yourself ( security ) you need to fix any problems yourself ;) 3rd party service advantages no setup , no configuration , no updates ( usually ) no costs disadvantages might not offer exactly what you need ; customization possibilites are limited you do n't " own " your content ; ( often ) no backup possibility you have to respect their service terms ( often ) ads you ca n't do anything if it goes down ( often ) you have only one account ; if your password is stolen , your account is lost risk of being deleted ( for no reason ) , risk that the service might shut down forever
The 90 days are the time you can spend in other Schengen countries , excluding Spain . That 's the point of D-visas : Staying longer than 90 days in one country and only incidentally in others . If Spain was included , the 115 days would be meaningless and it would never be possible to stay longer than three months with such a visa . You can also leave through Finland , there is no requirement to leave through Spain . The only concern could be that Finnish border guards suspect you have actually been longer than 90 days in Finland ( thus abusing your Spanish visa to reside there instead of Spain ) . It 's very unlikely to come up but if you are worried about it , you can keep some evidence that you have only been there for a week , things like a ticket from Spain to Finland , receipts or anything else proving your presence in Spain during the past 4 months , etc. .
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
Chiang Mai is a very good base for exploring the North of Thailand . One-day-treks can be booked all over the town for around 1000 Baht . They will do the standard tour , a little trek , an elephant ride , hill tribe visit and rafting . If that 's what you 're looking for you 'll be fine just booking some tour . I would personally ask for a private tour and pay a little more to get a better experience . Walking around the old town can be done without a guide . Ask the hotel staff to give you a map and let them show you points of interest . Make sure to visit some of the ( night ) markets around town . It 's all about food . Chiang Rai is 3-4 hours bus ride . There are buses leaving every 30min from Arcade Bus Station . It is definitely worth visiting .
end question
start question
How much cash can you carry on a flight within the European Union ?
There seems to be no limit as such . However if you carry more than 10 ' 000 $ , you <URL> depending on the country . For example in <URL> , you are to declare it when orally asked to do so . For the <URL> on the other hand , there seems to be no need to do so . So if you consider taking more than 10 ' 000 $ , you should check the rules for the specific country you are flying to .
10:27 am to 11:54 am is insanely tight . The domestic to international MCT at JFK is 1:15 so I think the booking is possible but JFK is notorious for issuing impossible MCTs ( at one point United was selling a ticket with a transfer time of 30 minutes to a different terminal ! ) . So you are a full 12 minutes above the official unrealistic MCT . Nope . You land at LGA at 8:10 AM , let 's say you clear that airport in 40 minutes , that 's 8:50 AM , the drive over should not be more than 40 minutes but even if it 's 60 you have two hours to go through JFK check-in and security . This is way more realistic .
Some thoughts : That 29 miles sounds like it came from someone in PR -- Google maps puts it at <URL> and 60-80 minutes with traffic . Back when I lived there , I 'd have estimated that drive at about 90 minutes without traffic . Do you know what your schedule will be like during the trip ? Unless you know you 're going no further than a few blocks away from the hotel/convention center during the whole trip , you 'll almost always want to rent a car in Southern California . Keep in mind that you ca n't catch taxis on the street , and public transportation is very limited . Are you traveling by yourself , or with others ? If it 's just you , it 's hard to justify paying <URL> ( each way ) versus <URL> ( each way ) . However , the cab fare is the same no matter how many people they let you cram in . I agree with Joel that John Wayne ( SNA ) and Long Beach ( LGB ) are better bets , but it 's worth keeping in mind that the shuttle fare is : $ 16 to/from LAX $ 10 to/from SNA $ 35 to/from LGB Which makes SNA look like the best bet . I have no idea why LGB is that much more when <URL> would be under $ 70 .
<URL> : Passenger : Dear Lufthansa My sister is flying with Lufthansa on Thursday , from Johannesburg to Zagreb . She will be flying with her musical instrument , the violin . Please let me know how we can get permission for her to take her violin on board as hand luggage , as she can not let it out of her sight , even for a second . In the past , it was no problem to take it on board , but lately I know of some challenges . The violin in its case is les than 2 kg . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , if your sister is travelling in Economy Class , then she is allowed to bring on piece of hand luggage into the cabin . The maximum weight is 8 kg and the maximum dimensions are 55 cm x 40 cm x 23 cm . If these restrictions are not exceeded than it should n't be a problem to bring her violin into the cabin . More information about hand luggage can be found here : <URL> Passenger : Thank you . The dimensions are 15 x 25 x 85 though . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , as one of the given dimensions is exceeded I ca n't guarantee from my side that your sister will be allowed to bring her violin into the cabin . This decision needs to be made by my colleagues at the airport . So it 's going to depend on what size your case is , I suspect , and the feelings of staff at the airport , on the day , as to whether it 's allowed as carry-on . As for checking it , Lufthansa , like other airlines does their utmost to ensure it 's safe . However , airports employ non-airline staff to handle luggage , so sometimes it 's out of Lufthansa 's control . In the event it IS damaged ( unlikely but possible ) , <URL> : Report the damage immediately at the airport Make a subsequent complaint about damage and that they 'll compensate you <URL> - roughly 1200 Euros , which can fluctuate . So ideally you 'll want good travel insurance , with your instrument itemised on that policy beforehand , with photos and details to prove it before you depart .
I am operating with an MLC backpack both on plane and at conference and if it 's slightly larger than the locals daypack -- oh well . It would work less well with a rolling carry on of course . eBags Mother Lode Convertible ( I used this before ) , Tortuga , Patagonia etc etc the list is endless of these backpacks . ( I am experimenting with a Magma Control-Backpack XL currently but unless you also want to carry on a 19.5 " monitor , that 's probably not the best choice . ) Another solution is to put the 240gr Bach Itsy Bitsy backpack ( which I also have ) in the carry on ( or checked in ) . The backpack is big enough : even my T420 laptop + sleeve fit in there and provides structure . Your laptop is likely thinner and lighter . Unlike most such collapsible backpacks this is strategically reinforced where necessary so while it 's very low weight you can carry like 4-5 kgs in it without a problem . Probably even more but I did n't dare to test further . Finally , you can just carry your normal laptop backpack ( my choice is the Briggs &amp; Riley Verb Activate but many are good choices , this just happens to be the best :P ) and a small duffel ( there 's no competition here , the Red Oxx XS Aviator is where it is ) as a personal item and check in everything else in a suitcase . I did this before as well .
You 're a little off , but if you Google for ETOPS you 'll find the details on what you 're referring to . In short , twin-engine planes ( eg , 737 , 767 , 777 , A320 , A330 , etc ) were originally required to remain at all times within 60 minutes of a suitable airport where they could land . This was done so that in the event of an engine failure they could land as soon as possible so as to significantly reduce the chances of the second engine failing . Quad-engine planes ( 747 , A340 ) did not have any similar restrictions due to their ability to lose at least 2 engines and still remain flying . As engine reliability improved , and as the twin-engine planes started to prove their reliability , the FAA ( and other similar organizations around the world ) brought in a classification called " Extended Twin Operations " , or ETOPS , which allowed for certain approved aircraft , being flown by approved airlines , to fly further distances from an airport . There are a number of different ETOPS ratings , such as ETOPS-120 ( 120 minutes from an airport ) , ETOPS-180 , ETOPS-207 ( 180 +15 % ) , and now even ETOPS-330 which allows certain Boeing 777 's to be up to 5 1/2 hours from their nearest airport ! Airlines without ETOPS ratings will sometimes need to take alternate routes in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport . eg , when Virgin Australia ( Virgin Blue at the time ) started flying Sydney-Perth they had to take a much more northern route in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport , where rival Qantas could take a more southerly/shorter route as their planes were ETOPS rated . ( For a good story on what can happen when both engines on a twin-jet fail , Google for details of the " gimli glider " )
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
There seems to be a <URL> going back to 2005 and <URL> on the length of PINs w.r.t. to US banks but here is the thing . There are ATMs ( Cash Machines ) that are owned by banks and there are cash machines that are owned by other companies and are installed at any place you can think of the thing is there is no way to know what fractions of Cash machines are limited to 4 digits and which are n't . Your bank may have relationships with other banks outside home country like <URL> if you look at international locations . On top of this it may have branches in those countries , so you can be reasonably sure that ATMs in your bank 's " Global ATM Alliance " or their overseas branches will be able to accept 4 + digit pin . If you come up on a standalone ATM it usually states who owns or runs them like ATMs in <URL> are run by <URL> , which is as if you are going to a Chase bank branch and are unlikely to have any problems with long PINs , others may be some private companies that just placed it in the corner stores and potentially not accept any longer then 4 digits . Also if you read the discussions I linked you can see that in some cases just first 4 digits may be enough to identify you to the ATM , so you may want to check with your bank , whether this type of scenario will work in your case .
Short answer : The captain has to divert to the nearest airport in case the urgent medical attention will save a life . Long answer : The first thing the crew should do once there is a sick passenger is looking for a medical professional onboard . A doctor will be preferred but a nurse or so will do the job in case no doctor is available . Now if there is a medical professional onboard then he/she will be in charge of deciding whether to land the aircraft in the nearest airport or not ( emergency landing ) . The confusion comes when no doctor is available onboard , usually the pilot will decide to land right away in case of heart attacks or seizures or when the passenger is unconscious . Meanwhile the crew will try their best to save the passenger 's life , all crew members are trained for <URL> and almost all aircrafts are equipped with <URL> , doctor kits and first aid kits .
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
Yes . I flew from Vancouver to Whitehorse ( and back ) on Air Canada and experienced no problems with my Washington EDL . Security did n't even look at it and the gate attendant did n't blink . As Micheal Seifert points out , airlines possibly have the option to be more stringent with their ID requirements .
There 's no time limit - as long as you 're traveling that day you will be allowed through security and allowed into the lounge . You do n't even need to be flying AA - as long as you can physically get to the lounge and have paid your money then you will be allowed in . The only real restriction is if you are planning to check luggage , in which case you will not be able to check your luggage until ~ 3-4 hours before the departure time of the flight .
According to the <URL> : Residents of the 33 approved countries can obtain a Tourist Visa upon arrival . The visa can be purchased for a nominal fee at the airport or port . It can also be issued online instantly prior to travel . This visa is valid for one month and can not be extended . The <URL> are : Fees Visa issuance fees : QR 100 for each visa , QR 50 for each accompanying person and QR 200 for overstay fine per day . At the current exchange rate this works out to ~ 28 . This visa is valid for one month and non-extendable .
Required under certain conditions : Outside populated areas : Italy , Hungary and Romania Indicated roads only : Portugal Motorcycles only : Belgium , France , Spain Recommended : Germany , Spain , France Required at all times : Bulgaria , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , Iceland , Latvia , Lithuania , Macedonia , Montenegro , Norway , Poland , Russia , Serbia , Slovakia , Slovenia , Sweden , Switzerland ( <URL> ) Note that all vehicles sold in EU since 2011 are required to have DRLs installed as per European Union Directive 2008/89/EC . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Currently , there is unfortunately a lot of scaffolding going on in Neuschwanstein . I quote the official homepage : Restoration works at the western and northern façade Because of restoration works the western and northern façade of Neuschwanstein Castle will be scaffolded until the end of 2012 . We apologize for any inconveniences . The guided tours in the castle are not affected by the works . You can have a look by yourself using one of these two webcams . Unfortunately it is night now , so you wo n't see a lot ;) <URL> <URL>
According to Lonely Planet , a Taxi in Bulgaria costs around 0.70 lv per minute at night in Sofia " The rates per kilometre may range enormously from one taxi company to another , but the standard rate is 0.59 lv per minute in the daytime , 0.70 lv per minute at night . " In Romania it should not be more than 2lei/kilometre ( http://www.lonelyplanet.com/thorntree/thread.jspa?threadID=1883761 ) Assuming that it takes 8 minutes to drive 5 kilometer ( assuming an average speed of ~ 37.5 km/h ) , it should you cost not more than 5.60 lv ( 2.80 Euro ) , respectively 10 lei ( 2.40 Euro ) . So I would say 3 Euros should be way enough even if it is more expensive when it is necessary to cross a border in a taxi .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
The statement ' there is no speed limit on the Autobahn ' is not really correct . I could n't find any official statistics , but I 've seen a number of only 50 % of German Autobahns without any limit . Many parts have a permanent limits of 120 or 130 km/h ( 74 mph or 81 mph ) . Some parts are limited to 80 ( 50 mph ) due to construction work . Also , some limits are only for wet roads . Finally many parts have dynamic speed limit signs that change based on the traffic situation . Even though there is no general limit for the 50 % , there is a recommended speed of 130 km/h ( 81 mph ) . If you are going much faster and there is an accident , it is more likely you are blamed for it ( if you survive it , which is unlikely ) . Autobahn police can still pull you over for reckless driving or driving too fast in certain situations even when there was no limit . How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ? This really depends on the situation , there are some stretches in less populated areas that get relatively light traffic and you can drive 200 km/h ( 125 mph ) with no problem . It also depends on the time of day . There is rush hour traffic that limits your speed anyways . Late at night it is usually empty and you can go fast . It also depends on you car , it makes a big difference if you go 200 km/h in a big BMW or Porsche or a smaller older car . It is also much more tiring to go fast , you have to concentrate much more at 200 than 120 because any tiny mistake has much bigger consequences . I had several friends visiting from overseas , renting a car and then were too scared to drive really fast . If you are planning to go fast , start with a speed you are comfortable with from home and then increase it over time . Do n't go 230 km/h ( 143 mph ) as soon as you hit the Autobahn for the first time .
The amount of radiation you 're exposed to on an airplane flight depends on a variety of factors , including the altitude , latitude , and duration of the flight . As an example , a flight from New York to Tokyo is probably about 150 μSV . For comparison , natural background radiation is about 2,000-7 ,000 μSv per year , a chest x-ray is about 50 μSv , and a medical CT scan is about 10,000 μSv . Some of the other answers have referred to the BED ( banana equivalent dose ) , but unfortunately the BED is scientifically wrong , because the body maintains a constant amount of potassium , so ingesting more does n't increase your exposure . The question asked about the comparison with the radiation exposure from airport scanners . There are two types of full-body scanners , backscatter x-ray and millimeter wave . In the US , the TSA is eliminating all backscatter x-ray scanners by June 2013 , so the only type remaining will be millimeter wave scanners . Millimeter wave scanners do not use ionizing radiation , so the radiation exposure is zero . I assume backscatter x-ray machines will continue to be used in airports in at least some other countries ; the radiation exposure is about 0.05-0 .1 μSv per scan , which is about a thousand times less than exposure during the flight . There is strong evidence that small doses of radiation do not cause even a small negative health effect in proportion to the dose ( which would be the LNT , linear no-threshold hypothesis ) . In fact , there is quite a bit of evidence that small radiation doses provide a health benefit , an effect called radiation hormesis . This may be because the radiation activates cellular repair mechanisms . However , the dose received from an airplane flight is much too small to provide any positive or negative effect worth considering on an individual basis .
end question
start question
Does applying for the US Green Card lottery reduce your future chances of getting a tourist visa ?
The US Government does n't publicly specify how it decides on a person 's eligibility for a visa , hence there can be no " official " answer to your query . In general , your local embassy will only know that you applied for the Green Card Lottery , if you are selected as those names are sent to the embassy , non-selected names that are not . But they do ask if you have previously applied . And so it is up to you to decide on how honest to be . What an immigration lawyer told me ( a neighbor ) is that if your qualifications are solid for the visa , having applied for the lottery has little effect . But if you are borderline , then it becomes a bigger factor .
Have a look at <URL> . You apply for visa online , and then physically get it by reporting to a consular service within 3 days of entering the country ( you get an entry permit sent to your email which you use to actually enter ) . I would not advise trying to obtain visa/entry at the border , unless you are exempt from visa by Abkhazia . Also take note of the following important info : Citizens of the following countries must have double entry or multiple Russian visas to come to Abkhazia ( it is a mandatory requirement , since the Russian Embassy in Abkhazia will not issue transit visas to the citizens of these countries ) : Algeria Angola Afghanistan Bangladesh Vietnam India Iraq Iran PRC DPRK ( North Korea ) Nepal Nigeria Pakistan Rwanda Syria Somalia Chad Sri Lanka Ethiopia See more at : <URL> and : NOTE ! When visiting Abkhazia through the territory of the Russian Federation you must receive at least a double entry Russian visa ( the first time you enter Russia on the way to Abkhazia and the second time you visit Russia on your way from Abkhazia back to your home country ) . Foreign citizens are required to have a double entry or multiple visa of the Russian Federation . See more at : <URL>
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
Basically , the answer is no . It 's anecdotal but I have heard many reports about people being denied entry to the US based on repeated travel to " unfriendly " countries , never to European countries ( and especially not to the Schengen area ) . Generally speaking , there is a sharp distinction in the US between citizens and residents , whose rights enjoy strong legal protections , and foreigners , for whom everything goes , especially at the border . Not so in the EU . It 's not to say that EU countries are exemplary ( they are not , you can find many egregious examples of that ) but there is an expectation of due process at the border and a rather restrictive list of valid reasons to deny entry . Denying entry based solely on your having visited a third country is not common practice and would probably not be legal . Beyond fraud and intent to immigrate illegally , the main reason to deny entry is that you present a threat to public safety and the hurdle for that is higher than just having visited a country .
Technically , you could , but not in every state . From <URL> : Who is eligible for a driver 's license or ID ? Any F , M or J nonimmigrant in lawful status may apply for a driver 's license or ID card , per state or territorial law . The nonimmigrant must present necessary supporting documents required to verify legal presence in the United States . For a list of required documents , see What documentation must a nonimmigrant present to the DMV ? [ ... ] [ ... ] When can a nonimmigrant apply for a driver 's license or ID ? Please be aware of the following timing requirements before applying for a driver 's license or ID : The Student and Exchange Visitor Information System ( SEVIS ) record must be in Active status when an F , M or J nonimmigrant applies for a benefit . A nonimmigrant with a record in any other status will not have success applying for a benefit . Wait at least ten calendar days from the date of entry into the United States before applying for a driver 's license or ID to allow time for arrival data processing . [ ... ] Wait at least two federal business days from the activation date in SEVIS to apply for a driver 's license or ID to ensure that the nonimmigrant 's Active status updates in all relevant databases . Several states require that a nonimmigrant have at least six months left on the Form I-20 , " Certificate of Eligibility for Nonimmigrant Student Status , " or Form DS-2019 , " Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor ( J-1 ) Status , " to be eligible for a driver 's license . Either consult with the state or territory 's DMV or visit its website to see if this is a requirement . In your case it 's down to the last point : do you need at least 6 months remaining on your visa in the state where you live ? EDIT : To find out whether you need the 6-months validity on your visa , simply contact your local DMV or call IL Department Of State Driver Services : Springfield : 217-782-6212 Chicago : 312-814-2975 Anecdotally , <URL> alludes that you do need the 6-months validity .
Yes , it is a real thing . It is to encourage immigration from countries that have low immigration rates to the US . There are tens of thousands that are given each year . I want to say around 50,000 . The idea is to increase the USA 's diversity . If you ' win ' the lottery , you receive a ' Green Card ' or permanent residency in the United States . EDIT : True ( via Hippietrail ) , you should be very careful . I believe Russia was on the list last year , but you must check that . Although Ukraine I know tops for number of lottery issues in Europe . Warnings about the program can be seen <URL> . The registration is <URL> .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
I contacted visatorussia and got a quick answer to this question : If you do not plan to stay at a hotel , please leave the field blank . A hotel will then be mentioned in your invitation for form 's sake and you will have to indicate the same hotel in your consulate application form . This way you will obtain a tourist visa with no complications and once in Russia , you will be able to choose accommodation in accordance with your convenience .
Where you 're from is likely irrelevant . Overstaying is overstaying , you 're not going to get treated more harshly or kindly because of who your president/king/prime minister is . There 's a great piece " <URL> " that is relevant to this . Consequences of overstaying This could result in a : no consequence - if you 're lucky , and this will depend greatly on who you deal with and what mood they 're in . fine - the smallest and easiest problem - although it can be expensive , it 's solvable with money . Have heard of 700 Euro fines for being 20 days over . record - they may put something on your personal record for the Schengen countries , making it hard to get a visa in future . ban on entry - you may be banned for 1-3 years ( usual length of time ) . deportation - very bad to have on your record , can affect all other travel to non-Schengen countries as well . In terms of some countries being more strict , if you are ' banned ' , you 're more likely to get back in by applying to one of the countries only recently admitted to the area . They 're allegedly more likely to approve ( presumably either lack of records , or for touristic purposes ) . If you 're then denied further re-entry , you can at best try to appeal for a visa - say for example , on grounds of compassion . For more information , read about <URL> .
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
I 've used a lot of these cards almost since they were introduced to the market over a decade ago , so I 'm drawing on my experience here ( technical corrections are welcome ) : Prepaid debit cards in the US come in two major classes : reloadable and non-reloadable . Non-reloadable cards are purchased with a fixed amount of U.S. dollars on the card , and can not be topped up . Once they are empty , they can be discarded . These are often sold as " gift cards " , do not require an ID check , and can be found in most grocery stores , drugstores , shopping malls , etc. . They generally have a flat fee for purchase of the card , and usually no other fees . The highest denomination I have ever seen for these is $ 1000 , though I believe the law allows for them to have up to $ 3000 . Most are in the $ 25 - $ 100 range , though higher denominations can be found with some shopping . You will receive a card immediately at the point of purchase , usually with the name of GIFT CARD or something similar . This once caused one cashier to glance at the receipt as I was finishing my purchase and tell me " Thanks for coming in today , Mr. Gift . " Reloadable cards are purchased with an arbitrary amount of money loaded on the card , and can be topped up at any time . These typically carry monthly fees , top-up fees , and sometimes transaction fees . They also require an ID check , and the issuer may restrict issuance to US residents . ( Thanks , PATRIOT act ! ) They can be loaded with up to $ 3000 at any given time , though the issuing bank may have a lower limit . Reloadable cards may have to be mailed to you at a US address ; you do not typically get the card at point of purchase , though you may get a temporary card . The card you receive in the mail will have your name on it , and it generally takes about a week or two to arrive . As far as I know , neither type can be obtained from outside the US ; you must obtain them in person at a point of purchase . Both types of cards will have a web site where you can register the card and associate a physical address in the US with it for the purpose of online shopping . The web site will also show the activity on the card and its current balance . For reloadable cards , the registration is mandatory and you will do it as part of the process of purchasing the cards . For non-reloadable gift cards , it is optional , and only needed if you wish to use the card to make online purchases . ( And those virtual cards you mention are only usable online ; they can not be used in physical stores . ) Which type is better for you , I think only you can say . But I would think that a high-value non-reloadable card or two would be the way you would want to go here . My favorite place to get them is at shopping malls ; the mall customer service desk will sell them , generally in denominations up to $ 250 or $ 500 depending on the mall , usually for a fee of about $ 5 . Finally , a usage note : When your card gets near empty , you can instruct a merchant to charge the exact amount remaining on the card , and then pay the remaining balance via another payment method , as long as you are n't doing this at a restaurant , hotel or possibly gas station ( since these places may authorize an amount higher than the amount given and settle the exact amount a few days later ) . This allows you to empty out the card and not lose any money . You might also consider just using your own credit cards while in the US ; if they have a magnetic stripe and are Visa , MasterCard , American Express , etc. , they should work in most places in the US except for " pay at the pump " gas station pumps ( <URL> ) . You 'll usually get a good exchange rate , too , though this does seem to vary a lot by country and bank . Note that Maestro cards do not generally work for purchases here , though they work at most ATMs .
The exact requirements vary from state to state , but in New York it appears that there is no requirement for you to get a NY Drivers License ( as opposed to some other states where once you have been a resident for more than 3 months your home country drivers license is no longer valid ) . However on a J1 visa you can optionally get a local drivers license , as long as your visa length is greater than 1 year , AND you have at least 6 months of validity on the visa remaining . As far as whether it 's worth doing this for the purpose of insurance , it depends on what type of insurance you are after . For rental car insurance , there is no difference in cost of the insurance depending on the type of license you have . If you are getting the insurance from the rental car company ( CDP/LDW/etc ) then they will not vary it depending on the type of license you have . If you are getting it via travel insurance or credit card insurance then again it will not vary based on your license - but be sure to read the fine print to make sure it 's covered ! If you are looking at buying a car , then it will make a difference , but be prepared for a shock either way . Many insurance companies will not offer you insurance if you do not have a US drivers license . I 've been told there are some that will - especially for medium-term tourists - but expect to pay a lot for it . If you do have a US drivers license then you will be able to get coverage , but it will not be cheap . Every insurance company I 've ever looked at will ask you how long you 've been licensed in the US , and will penalize you heavily for anything below 18 months/3 years/5 years ( depending on the company ) . Most will also ask how long you 've held a license in another country , and may reduce the price slightly due to your overseas license - but it wo n't be by much . Plugging your details , along with those of the type of car you might consider buying , into some of the insurance companies websites will probably be very telling for you - both in terms of whether they will allow you to purchase coverage without a US license , and how much they will charge with only 1-2 months license history in the US .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
You are asked those things for ( as far as I can tell ) two reasons . One is to simply observe your demeanor . The idea is that someone who is concealing something will give conflicting , vague , or over-detailed answers to simple questions . The other is to seek real information that can be used to distinguish smugglers from travelers . For example , I once had the following conversation with the Border lady : " How long was your trip ? " " 10 days . " " Where did you go ? " " The Golden Triangle : northern Thailand and eastern Burma . " " Did you travel alone . " " Yes . " " Did you meet anyone while you were traveling ? " " Sure , dozens of people . " Needless to say , everything I was carrying was examined minutely . I did n't know you could disassemble a Bic pen . Do you have to answer ? No , you can decline to answer if you 're a US citizen , but think about it . In general , you should be extremely reluctant to answer any questions about your own activities from law enforcement . You might think you have done nothing wrong , but do you have the US Code committed to memory ? They say the average American commits <URL> ; you do n't want to accidentally confess to yours . But if you go through a border-check , they are going to ask you questions . They are n't trying to incriminate innocent people ; they are trying to sort out the smugglers . If you do n't answer , they have to throw you on the maybe-smuggler category and go through all your belongings . So my advice : If you have done anything on your journey that might jam you up with the Feds ( visited Cuba , traded with a sanctioned country ) but your luggage is squeaky clean , decline to answer questions and let them rummage through your underwear . If you were a naughty boy and you are bringing back a few grams of fond memories , smile politely and say , " I just lay on the beach for two weeks . " Otherwise , answer the questions politely , accurately , and concisely .
I broke down and traveled to to the bus station . They were able to process my refund at the ticket window . I needed to provide ( 1 ) photo id and the ( 2 ) reference number from the confirmation e-mail . The clerk printed the actual ticket , then I provided two signatures to complete the refund . ( I did n't realize a Greyhound bus ticket is NOT a reservation for a seat on the bus on that day like an airline ticket . Even though the confirmation e-mail lists the date and time of the departure and arrival , the ticket was valid for 1 year . I was thinking I need to get the refund before the scheduled date . According to the clerk , I could have processed the refund or used the bus ticket months after I originally planned to leave . )
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
Yes it does . The English description is not up to date . There is also a " JUMP 1 day ticket " , which is valid until the end of the day it has been obliterated . This one is still available as a " traditional " magnetic card . Source : STIB Transport rules <URL> If you want a 24/48/72 hours ticket you can also ask for a so-called MOBIB Basic card . It is easier to obtain as it is not personal .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
end question
start question
where is considered Dublin 's ( Ireland ) city center , and most ideal location for nightlife / pubs ?
Temple Bar is generally considered the night life / pub / club centre of Dublin . There is a wide range of accommodation from hostels to quality hotels , and there are a vast number of pubs and clubs within crawling distance .
The village you are looking for is called Çukurayva , while <URL> is an old Armenian name for the village Tunçkaya .
The <URL> lists a <URL> . Opening hours according to the website are Monday through Sunday 5.30 am to 6pm . The service is located at Terminal 3 , Level 3 .
Prague 1 has both the biggest concentration of bars , clubs and old pubs , and the biggest concentration of sights . Check out the Foursquare map for the <URL> : And the <URL> : Therefore you should stay in Prague 1 . I can recommend staying near the <URL> , as that 's the nexus of Prague 's public transport .
So basically , it 'll ultimately depend on the rental company , but there are certainly penalties . It 's also definitely possible , so do n't worry about that . For example , from <URL> : Drivers under 25 must have held their full license for at least 24 months prior to the date of pick up . The minimum age to rent a vehicle is 21 years ( maximum 75 ) . Drivers under 25 , i.e. drivers aged 21,22 , 23 or 24 are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day and drivers 70 or over are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day . All drivers under 25 and over 70 are liable for the first 1,200 Euro of damage to the car ( excess ) . The surcharge is paid when collecting the car and is not included in the quoted price . However , there are a few other terms on that page with regards to where you hold your current license , and whether you 'll need to supply an international driver 's license . But once you 've got that , you should be good to go .
There 's at least a couple of options , actually . <URL> - they run art and architecture tours by design professionals - " a member of Guiding Architects , an international network for architectural guided tours by professionals . " <URL> - " an educational around-Manhattan architecture tour , hosted by architects and members of the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter ( AIANY ) . " - by yacht , nonetheless ! Finally , there 's a handy thread on <URL> about this - a couple of years back , to be fair , but with a few more handy links that might serve as back up options , including self-guided tours .
The best option is to make some Japanese friends at the conference and get them to take you out . If that does n't work out and you 're on your own , go to Tokyo 's premier foreigner-friendly watering hole <URL> and pick an <URL> , there 's something there for most tastes . Do not let the street touts steer you into bars , and try to remain somewhat skeptical if an attractive sudden acquaintance wants to drag you into an obscure bar tucked away deep inside a building . Also , instead of drinking all night , you can catch a taxi to the Tsukiji fish market ( it 's not very far away ) around 4 AM and go eat some primo sushi .
Delhi is a Modern Indian city with a population of about 15 million people . If you have been to Delhi , you must have noticed the amount of traffic in the city . Even though it is true that cows are worshiped in Hindu Mythology , they are an inconvenience for the flow of traffic . Over time they have been moved away from Delhi and now you wo n't find them on most roads . If you go into the village sections of Delhi , you will still find them in many households but this practice is also decreasing due to unavailability of grazing land . 15 years ago , Delhi had much more cows than now . Agra is a relatively older city which is much less developed . It is not only smaller than Delhi but it more traditional that it . There is a good availability of grazing lands near Agra so you will still find many cows on the street even though they are an inconvenience to traffic . Official removal efforts were also made in Delhi in order to prevent Cows and Buffalo within the city center . Conscious efforts by citizens were also made in order to prevent deaths of Cows . Traffic usually waits when cows are crossing roads as a mark of respect but every once in a while some lunatic crashes into one . It 's simply a step into modernization and reducing inconveniences to both kinds of species . Everything else apart , I was born and brought up in Delhi and have visited Agra several times as well . I truly cherish both cities and find that each has its own beauty . Hope this helps !
With the help of Google maps , using the public transport option , it seems that Hongqiao aiport is closer and needs less time and less subway stops ( cheaper ? ) . Using subway , <URL> is 51 minutes away with 11 stops while <URL> you will need 1h25m with 17 stops .
Your compensation , if any , is governed by the <URL> you agreed to by purchasing the ticket , which in this case states ( emphasis added ) RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS American will endeavor to carry you and your baggage with reasonable dispatch , but times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . American may , without notice , substitute alternate carriers or aircraft and , if necessary , may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket . Schedules are subject to change without notice . American is not responsible for or liable for failure to make connections , or to operate any flight according to schedule , or for a change to the schedule of any flight . Under no circumstances shall American be liable for any special , incidental or consequential damages arising from the foregoing . In the absence of any superseding regulation or legislation -- of which there is none , as the origin and connection are both in the U.S. , which <URL> -- American is not required to give you anything . Despite the new routing , they still fulfill their fundamental obligation , which is to transport you from city A to city B . At best , you could request a refund for the ticket -- though this would necessitate purchasing a new one , which being closer to departure is more likely to be more expensive . If you are an elite frequent flyer with them or on one of the more expensive fares , they may be willing to give you some miles or other token gestures for the inconvenience , but purely in the name of customer relations . Some version of this paragraph is included in most airlines ' contract of carriage . The airline is similarly under no legal obligation to compensate you , notably , for switching a nonstop flight to a connecting flight , a frequent complaint . The same goes for equipment changes -- you may have purchased a ticket expecting a widebody in a three-class international configuration , but have no recourse if it gets swapped for a one-class turboprop at the last minute .
Off the beach snorkeling means on Krabi side of things ( between Phuket and Krabi ) , all those islands will be fine , as well as small beaches like Ralay . In this day and age , air conditioning is easy to find just about everywhere . Good dining options means a larger island like Phi Phi and to a lesser degree Ralay , but if you can eat Thai food , finding good food is never a problem in Thailand . Outside of Patong , you do n't have to worry about too much night life in July . One issue with a lot of Thai beaches is that they are long sand beaches with nothing to see in terms of snorkeling . Going up along the cost in pang nga , you will not find anything worth snorkeling . Swimming , yes , but nothing to see in most places . From Phuket , you will notice a nice little island about 1km from Kata beach . Do n't even think about it . As soon as you get within a couple hundred meters of the island you discover that the place is full of jelly fishes and that because jetskis keep crisscrossing the place , they often get caught and shreded all over and your whole skin starts itching . Not my fondest memory . On Phuket itself , going to the south most beach and crossing over to the small island should n't be too bad for snorkeling , but I still would recommend the Krabi area instead . It 's also more sheltered too which is a good thing as the rainy season should have started in earnest , causing the waves shaking up the bottom ( poor visibility ) . If you are looking for places a little out of the way , head to Kao Yai/Kao Noi . For some reason these 2 islands never got popular and I suspect there are some decent places to snorkel around there . At worst , it 's 5km from the small Islands ( where you would go if you book a snorkeling tour on Phuket ) and 10km to Krabi A lot of people complain that Phuket suffered from mass tourism , but few people hardly ever go to Kao Yai/noi ( yai means big , noi means small ) . Word of advice , use Agoda.com for your hotel bookings . As soon as you are looking for something more than a hole in the wall , they tend to have the best prices by far .
There are probably two acceptable answers here : <URL> - an active volcano in Guatemala , it 's erupted 23 times since the Spanish conquest of Guatemala . It then erupted in 1965 and has been erupting basically continuously since then . <URL> - also in Guatemala ( which makes it easy for you ) , which appears on <URL> in the world . While currently the most activity is lahars ( mud flows ) there are also regular lava flows .
Los Angeles , being a major city , has many cultural highlights ( as you define them ) . You will find a long list of museums on <URL> . I can particularly think of a few . <URL> , with a particularly interesting architecture and filled with art . The <URL> , in downtown LA. . And the <URL> , a large US museum for art . Regarding venues , The <URL> especially has concerts of the Los Angeles Philarmonic . The <URL> seems to have an extensive list of scheduled events . Los Angeles has a lot of other venues , you can look up on ticketmaster.com or such sites for an artist you would hope to see . Regarding clubs , I do n't know much but I remember seeing a lot of people going out in Hollywood when I visited . I suppose you will have a relatively large choice . Depending on where in Southern California you are going , you can also think think of more north San Francisco , famous for its numerous venues and various styles of " city life of twenty and thirty somethings normally entails " .
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
You have named some of the finest such buildings in the world . San Francisco has some attractive religious institutions to be sure , but nothing I would consider truly world class or on the same scale as a church that has been under construction for 134 years . That said , here are a few sights of interest though ( inspired partially by <URL> , which has some others worth considering ) . I would n't really count any as a must-see for a tourist , but if you 're interested in church architecture or want to visit one anyway , there are some good options . All these institutions have websites that list more detailed information , hours , scheduled services , contract details , etc. . . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Kjetil Ree It has been featured in movies and has a <URL> as well . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Chris06 This is an Episcopal Cathedral , so I 'm not sure if it is suitable for your religious needs , but it 's a stunning building . One fun feature are the labyrinths , which are built for meditative walks . Come by Cable Car if you want to arrive in style , or the 1-California bus if you do n't . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Jdlrobson Gothic-style Catholic church with a colorful and detailed <URL> . <URL> <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Robert A. Estremo The namesake of the Mission District , this is n't quite as significant for the architecture but rather for the history : it is the oldest surviving structure in San Francisco and the site of the original Spanish Mission in San Francisco . It , along with the larger Basilica next door , continues to operate as a Catholic parish church . <URL> ( I could n't find a free image suitable for embedding . ) As you mentioned that you are Greek , it 's fitting to include this one , though I 've never visited . The <URL> looks quite striking . It is out on Brotherhood Way in the far Southwestern cover of the city , making it potentially a bit of a trip to reach depending on where you start . Modern Cathedrals <URL> Wikimedia Commons : David Leigh Ellis <URL> Wikimedia Commons : Skier Dude For something different , you could also consider one of the Bay Area 's modern cathedrals . <URL> ( Saint Mary of the Assumption ) may be mocked by some locals as the " washing machine church , " as it looks like an agitator from the sides ( it is , of course , a cross from above ) , but it is a noticeable structure for better or for worse . Across the bay in Oakland , <URL> is comparatively new and was the first cathedral built entirely in the 21st century , with lots of glass and natural light . The Gothic-revival <URL> is nice and dates back to 1851 . It is a far cry from the Sagrada Familia , but I mention it especially because it is quite convenient to Union Square , Muni Metro , and BART lines . Also note <URL> , part of the United Methodist Church , which is n't a whole lot to look at physically , but features an extraordinary gospel choir , plenty of spirit , a commitment to social justice , and prominent programs to feed and help the homeless ( and they can always use more volunteers ) . Some other architecturally significant buildings affiliated with some religion in San Francisco include : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ( Buddhist ) , <URL> ( Buddhist ) , <URL> ( Hindu ) , <URL> ( Jewish ) , <URL> ( Jewish ) , and <URL> ( Jewish , modernist ) . I have surely omitted others from this list .
There 's no simple answer to this because flight prices vary according to time of the year . Flight costs are probably going to be the highest , and while it is not the only indicator , a lower flight price indicates an ' off-season ' . If you try <URL> ( set your airport to Seattle ) then it does indeed seem that cheapest flights in March 2013 would be for Hawaii . However , costs are also likely to be more in Hawaii - so you could also consider a host of Carribbean / Central American countries that may be slightly more expensive as far as flights go but have cheaper hotels . Besides , you did n't really mention a budget , whether you 're going with a family , etc - all factors that can vary the price .
You should expect something between 9 - 15 $ , more than that is suspicious/wrong . I am from Lisbon and live in Sweden now . When Traveling home I take the taxi from the Airport out to Oeiras ( on the suburbs and also a extra taxed ride since it 's outside Lisbon Municipality ) . It costs me between 25-30 $ . The Lisbon airport site you named is not the official one . <URL> is . Check also <URL> about different rates at different days/times , and <URL> unofficial site with some info also . You can also go to the Tourist office inside the Airport and buy a fixed price ride . 19.20 $ was the price I found for weekends .
Since AMS ( Amsterdam Schiphol ) is in the Netherlands and CDG ( Paris Charles De Gaulle ) is in France , both in the Schengen area , any flight to Ireland , which is not in the Schengen area , will definitely be considered as an international flight . Domestic flights are usually defined as flights within the same country , but flights between two Schengen countries can be considered domestic as well . However , this is not the case for Ireland . Regarding the security check , I believe it depends on the specific airport and from where you are connecting . At CDG I was once allowed to board a flight to the USA connecting from an international flight from Europe at a different terminal without passing through the security check again . At other airports , in a similar situation , I was required to go through security checks .
Yes , it would be , if not " rude " , then at least kind of awkward . Malaga , Barcelona and Madrid are all heavily touristed areas and most restaurant staff are very used to dealing with tourists who do not speak Spanish . You also do n't really need any spoken language to convey " table for one " ( hold up a finger ) , " I 'll have what he 's having " ( point at neighboring table ) , " menu please " ( draw a box with your fingers ) , " check please " ( sign an imaginary check ) , etc. . You may need some help translating the menu , but Google Translate and phrasebooks are great for this . The one exception is if you need to convey something complicated and important like " I have an allergy and will die if the cook does not pay attention " , in which case <URL> would be fine .
According to <URL> ( Twin City 's Slovakian partner ) : Selling points : the tickets in the FLORA TOUR Headquarters on Kúpeľná Street ( Bratislava ) , in the FLORA TOUR Office in the Passenger Port ( Bratislava ) or in FLORA TOUR Office at Schwedenplatz ( Vienna ) . In the Kiosk under Nový most ( Bratislava ) it is possible to make a reservation . The exact location of these selling points is available <URL> .
end question
start question
Issues when camping during trek in Georgia ?
The answer to my own question will not deal with all issues mentioned , but because there are no other answers I 'd like to share my experiences . I was n't personally camping in Georgia , but I met people that were camping and I saw people camping . Georgia still has an underdeveloped tourist base , most of the sleeping places are in hotels ( big cities ) and guesthouses/private rooms . But I saw a camping place advertised in Mestia ( Svanetia ) and I saw people camping outside a bar in Vardzia ( so their backyard was a kind of camping place , you could say . I met a few Israeli tourists that were trekking from Kazbegi to Tushetia and they said they 'd slept most of their nights in tents and there were no security issues . But they camped only in places far from villages , when they were near some village , they 've stayed there . I also met one guy travelling from Uzbekistan to Georgia by hitchhiking and sleeping in a tent , and he said he had no problems or security issues , neither from people nor from wild animals or dogs . But one thing you should always avoid is getting near flocks of sheep , because they are protected by very large and aggressive dogs , whose task is to protect the animals from everything including wolves and bears .
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
Lavatories ( airplane toilets ) can be inoperative for many reasons , they could get blocked by someone vomiting in the sink , or by throwing tissues or other objects in either the sink or the toilet seat . Sometimes , when a waste tank is full , or there 's a problem in the sensor of the tank giving a wrong signal , all flushes connected to that tank will not work , this happens in modern aircrafts . If a sink or a flush are not working , the toilet has to be blocked by the crew/maintenance or stuff would be piling up ! For each aircraft type ( usually depending on the passenger load and toilet locations ) , there is a limit of toilets that can be inoperative while airborne before the flight has to land at the nearest airport . This depends on the model and airline 's policy . But a rule of thumb is : half of the toilets in each zone should be operative . Otherwise the flight has to land if this happened during the flight . If the flight is on ground and for example all toilets in business class are inoperative , the plane can take off but no passengers should be in that class . In some airlines , if all the toilets at the front are inoperative , even if there are no passengers , the plane has to land if it 's flying or will not be able to take off if it 's on ground because pilots are only allowed to use toilets in the front .
In Thailand , it depends on where you 'll be going . Anywhere from Bangkok northwards , you wo n't notice anything in relation to Ramadan . There 's a significant muslim presence in the south of Thailand ( the sliver of land that borders Malaysia ) , but I do n't know to what extent Ramadan celebrations there spill over into public life . Malaysia is religiously tolerant , simply because there are so many different communities in that country . So , in the big cities , you might find areas where Ramadan celebrations are hard to avoid , while there will be others where life will go on as usual . Small towns could be markedly different , but I have no info on that , sadly .
Assuming you arrive in the domestic terminal and leave from the international one , I would first go over there and try to check in early , just to get that out of the way . It is always risky to leave the airport and get into suburban traffic when you have to catch another flight , especially an international one . Your time is limited and I would n't spend too much of it in downtown . However even getting there is interesting enough . I would suggest just taking the <URL> from O'Hare to Clark/Lake ( 1h ) , then go up and change into the <URL> , this is an elevated train ' The L' that goes around the loop , so you have some views over downtown Chicago . Get off at Washington/Wells and walk back to Clark/Lake ( 5 blocks ) to get back on the Blue line to O'Hare ( 1h ) . With only 2.5 hours to spend , this is a very tight schedule . Photo credit : <URL> To make things worse , the Blue line leaves from near terminal 2 , to get there to/from terminal 5 takes at least 15 minutes each . I would only try this , if you had checked in already , so that when getting back to the airport you would only need to go through security and to the gate , meaning you do n't have to be back at 11:30 but maybe at 12:00 or even 12:30 . It would be easier if you could check in through to Tokyo in Boston and do n't have to worry about luggage and checkin in O'Hare . You could also not go downtown , but just look around one of the West Side neighborhoods for a short while . Just take the Blue line to Belmont or Logan Square , spend some time there and then go back . There is nothing too special there , but you can get a feel for Chicago outside of the loop .
From <URL> : Camping There are no public wilderness or common areas in the Faroes . As a consequence , camping is only permitted at designated campsites ( See page 88 ) . Moreover , it is not permitted to stay overnight in your camping cars along the road , at rest stops , lay-bys or view areas . Be aware that many camping sites are designated only for tents . Campers ought to be considerate of the environment , keep the camping areas tidy and clean up thoroughly upon departure . Because of the unpredictable weather even in summer , it is advisable to have sturdy , waterproof and windproof camping equipment . Fuel for camping stoves is available at petrol stations . So no , wild or free camping is not permitted - you have to use designated campsites .
I traveled all the way through the USA from the east coast to the west coast , by car and RV . I thought about getting a UMTS / LTE stick for my Notebook , too . But there really was n't any need for this . You can get FREE WIFI almost everywhere : Coffee Shops ( Starbucks , etc. ) Fast food Restaurants ( Pizza Hut , McDonalds , KFC , etc. ) Camp grounds Hotels Shops / Malls Libraries In rare cases you get WIFI access even here : Cinemas Grocery Stores Gas Stations I can also tell you , that the UMTS internet coverage is n't that good when you plan to visit national parks or other nature reserves . Whilst driving through the less populated middle of the USA there are times when you even do n't get your cell phone working -- > NO Service ! So if you really feel the need for uninterupted internet access , you should carefully check the coverage of your Mobile-ISP
It is absolutely legal to shoot at a range as long as you either shoot their guns or bring your own legal firearm to the range provided your weapon meet range 's restrictions . For example : <URL> will rent you a firearm , similar is available from <URL> . Normally the only thing that you need to have with you is a valid photo ID . You can probably use <URL> to limit the list of shooting ranges .
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
No you do n't need to claim and recheck your bags . For future reference at Changi , if you 're flying with SQ on the same ticket they will transfer them for you . <URL> the answer from their Twitter : Are both flights booked under the same booking ref ? If yes , the baggage will be check through to the final destination .
Leave yourself extra time to get to the airport . Other than that , unless one point of your journey is on Staten Island , or literally along the course route , you probably wo n't even notice the Marathon . NYC is a huge city . The Marathon is a big event - and as you 've noticed , the course sprawls all over town - but because of the somewhat mobile nature of the marathon crowds , it tends to not be as big of a deal as some make it out to be . In terms of tourist attractions , anything south of 59th street in Manhattan is going to be 100 % unaffected by the Marathon . Which is a chunk of the city that contains , if not most of the tourist sites in the city overall , certainly the largest single portion of the cities sites of tourist interest in an area of it 's geographic size . Really , the Marathon does n't really hit much of tourist interest at all . Other than it 's jaunt through Williamsburg along Bedford Ave. ( if you 're interested in shopping or brunching with the hipster-set ) , and the run down the UES/East side of Central Park ( with the various museums along that path ) , the Marathon largely stays out of NYC 's tourist districts . As far as getting to the airport - the loss of the Queensboro Bridge hurts . Especially if your destination airport is LGA and you 're headed there from Midtown Manhattan or the UES - it 's a favorite of cabbies for the lack of a toll , and of course , any traffic it would normally carry is probably being redirected to the Midtown Tunnel . But it 's far from the end of the world - give yourself a little bit of additional time ( I 'd say an extra hour to be safe , but you can cut that down the later in the day you need to go ) and you should n't have anything to worry about .
The answer to all three of your questions is " It depends " . The only way you will get an answer is by asking the owner directly . If it 's beoing offered on AirBNB , then my assumption is that it is being offered much the same as any holiday rental . In that sense , the answer to 1 . can be inferred from if it is advertised as " whole property " or " private room " . 2 wil be at the discretion of the owner , and 3 . is likley to depend on the opinions of the owner and any local legal/regulatory requirements . As the boat is being advertised on AirBnB , my assumption would be that it is being offered in the capacity of accomodation that happens to float , rather than as a watercraft . Again , all the above is an assumption , you will need to contact the owner to know if that really is the case . If you are interested in a holiday on a yacht that moves around , then there are many services out there that offer this . Look for terms like " Flotilla " and " Bareboat " . There are packages both with you as the entire crew , or with an existing crew . It is n't cheap , but it 's also not so expensive as to be for the " 1 % " only . It could certainly be a fun way to visit some mediterranean cities .
I guess it depends on what you want to do , and how long you 're staying . Traveling around the country might be a little more difficult , but if you 're just staying in the Reykjavik area you should be fine . I just got back from a short trip to Reykjavik , and had a great time . As another commenter said , more darkness means more time for the Northern Lights . Also more time for drinking and partying , if that 's your thing - Reykjavik has lively , non-stop night-life during the weekends . There is also good food , and lots of public heated swimming pools to explore ( my blog entry about my visit to some of those pools should be up in the next day or two ) . Have fun !
You can do such trip by " <URL> " company : From Kerch to Poti every Tuesday , at next day you are at Poti . Operations service phone : +38 ( 0482 ) 34-76-63 . According to <URL> , schedule is set at the start of each month , so you should call there before you came in Kerch . Also there is a line Batumi - Ilyichevsk , which is more popular line ( ferry goes each 2-3 days ) , and you have more chances to use it than Poti - Kerch .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
TL ; DR : You should n't . Taiwan is nowhere near as " bow-heavy " as Japan , but the same rule applies : foreigners are not expected to know or understand how to bow , and that 's fine . Anybody meeting or being introduced to you is going to shake hands Western style . If you see people bowing at temples , funerals , whatever , what they 're doing is none of your business and you 're best off watching from the back . If somebody bows to you , it 's polite to nod back as an acknowledgement , but that 's about it . See also : <URL>
The <URL> has a page about your rights to camp in Iceland . Camping with no more than three tents is allowed on uncultivated ground for a single night , unless the landowner has posted a notice to the contrary . However , campers should always use designated campsites where they do exist . Do not camp close to farms without permission . If a group of more than three tents is involved , these campers must seek permission from the landowner before setting up camp outside marked campsite areas . So , if there is no sign , and the land is n't being used to grow things , you have the right to camp there for one night . That is pretty much all the law says . So , yes you can camp at the side of the road , IF there is a place to park your car . You should not park your car on the land . Do not drive off the road or track . Motor vehicles can leave marks that last for generations . Driving off roads or tracks is against the law except when the ground is frozen and covered in snow . See further information under " Practical Information/Driving in Iceland " . Staying away from houses is just a basic courtesy . The best rule of thumb to follow in my experience is to never be close enough that you can see anything in the windows , and definitely stay away from gardens and obviously enclosed personal space . 300 meters at the minimum . Sources : <URL> my own personal experiences camping in the wild in Iceland , Sweden and Finland .
According to <URL> there is an Iranian embassy in Tbilisi so you should be able to apply for a visa .
In April , the only period to watch out for would be <URL> at the very end of the month ( April 29-May 5 ) , when transport gets packed . Early April will be fine though , and you 'll have no problem reserving seats on the same day .
Check out <URL> . Freagle is like couchsurfing , instead of your couch you can offer your backyard , barn ... It 's not wild camping per se but it is trying to fill the gap between the <URL> wild camping and the normal camp site . And indeed , not so many hosts available . Still worth a try . My own experience with wild camping in Germany is positive if you keep simple rules in mind . Do n't camp in a bigger group Do n't campfire Do n't litter Keep yourself out of sight Do n't stay more than one night Do n't camp in a natural reserve ( from comments : thanks @amon ) Even if you get " caught " by a ranger or police they will ask you to move or make you pay a little fine . It is more or less a trivial offence in my opinion .
end question
start question
What are the Phone , Data , and SMS service options for a foreigner in Japan ?
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
It all depends on the company . In the US it is customary to tip taxi drivers , however some shuttle companies have no tip policies . The difference between the two are that taxi drivers lease their cab from the company they drive for and rely on tips . Shuttle drivers usually get paid by the hour and tips are an added bonus . If this is a private shuttle 20 % is more than enough . 20 % = Great 15 % = Average 10 % = You 're a jerk
Edit : on closer inspection ( thanks Krist van Besien for the seat61 link ) it seems that sadly , the only practical options really are coach with ID or Eurolines ( cheap , # 20 - # 50ish depending on advance booking , but 5hr + ) , or Eurostar . Train > Ferry > Train Many possible routes , here 's the fastest : High speed train from St Pancreas to Dover : <URL> , hourly ( plus other slower options ) P&amp;O Ferry foot passenger from Dover to Calais : <URL> , hourly ( other operators have 1:30 and 2hr ferries , not all allow foot passengers ) Train from Calais to Lille : <URL> , every half hour ( by road from <URL> ) So that 's 4 hours plus interchange time , costing around # 85 , Central London > Lille , prices seemingly not dependent on advance booking . Edit : The interchange times are horrible : the ferry operators have some savage policies that really slow this down . 45 minutes for foot passengers to check-in ( compared to just 30 minutes for vehicles ) , plus infrequent shuttle buses between ports and stations at both sides that do n't seem to match up with either the train or ferry timetables . <URL> at both Dover and Calais for UK to France train-ferry-train journeys , pushing the total to potentially 6 hours . Unless these policies change , sadly this option is more expensive , complicated and slow than a coach . There might be combined " train and ferry " deals out there that lower the overall price and help you find fast connections , but I could n't find any clear info . There are " rail and sail " tickets to Ireland and the Netherlands , but not to France . <URL> , but these seems to have been dropped - apparently for a while it was telephone-booking only , then even call centre staff stopped selling it . Train > Coach > Train Two fatal problems here : <URL> it does n't seem to be faster than ferry . They mostly take the coach by ferry anyway ( total 2 hours ish ) , and in the rare cases when they do n't ( which do n't stop anywhere in the UK except London except on the return journey ) , it takes about an hour and a half to get from Calais to Folkestone ( near Dover ) , so is barely faster . Despite driving through Dover and Folkestone/Canterbury , neither Eurolines nor ID 's online booking tools allow you to book from these towns . Seems they do n't stop there . They want you to get a coach from Dover to London , then another coach back to Dover on to Calais ...
There are only three operators in Australia that actually own and operate their own networks , and they are : <URL> , the former state monopoly . My usual recommendation if you 're planning to travel even slightly off the beaten track , since they have the widest network by a long shot , but a bit more expensive than the competition . <URL> , an arm of Singapore 's SingTel , and a good choice if you want to save a few pennies and are sticking mostly to the cities . <URL> aka Vodafail , the local branch of the multinational , infamous for poor coverage and network instability issues and recommended only if you 're a masochist . As a representative anecdote , two friends of mine who worked for Vodafone had their wedding in Yarra Valley , a popular tourist destination just outside Melbourne , and the winery they chose , 1 km off the main highway , had zero Vodafone coverage . Both have now quit , and neither uses Vodafone any more ! All three have booths just outside Customs at both Sydney and Melbourne ( and probably other major airports too ) . I 'm not going to go into plan details , since these change at the drop of a hat , but at time of writing ( Dec 2014 ) Optus 's $ 2/day with 500MB/day plan is about as good as it gets . It 's probably worth mentioning that comparing plans in Australia is ( intentionally ) really difficult , since all operators work on a basis of giving you funny money and pricing everything in funny money . For example , paying $ 20 might get you $ 200 of " credit " , but phone calls then cost you $ 7/min ( actually $ 0.70 / min ) , and of course the ratio of real money to credit varies based on the operator and plan you pick . There are also " virtual operators " ( MVNO ) like <URL> and <URL> that license the big boys ' networks . They claim to be cheaper , and occasionally may be , but tend to have really shoddy customer support , puny data speed limits in the small print , etc. . The small savings are n't worth the potential for big hassle in my opinion , but YMMV . Source : Have used SIMs from all three companies , and seen my wife struggle with a MVNO I shall not deign to advertise . Currently on Telstra and happy with it .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
The views are pretty sweet from some of the hotels . Here 's one from a room that cost me $ 25 extra for a " falls view room " : Really , it 's from the room : I 'm pretty sure it was the Sheraton . Update : since someone mentioned the Skylon tower , here 's a shot ( on a fairly old cellphone ) from the restaurant . Go up for dinner on a night they have fireworks , and you can see fireworks from above , which is very cool .
The hotspot you link to is a 3G to wifi device . I 've used a similar device but on AU instead of NTT DoCoMo which the one you linked to uses , but I expect you 'll have a similar experience . ( And AU has a 2 year contract while NTT does n't ) . I found coverage was very good , but that download speeds were not great . I did n't have any trouble using Skype , but did find videos on YouTube , took a while to buffer and were at times choppy . If you need always on Internet this is probably a good choice as WiFi ( esp . free WiFi ) is not common . I 'm personally now using WiMax service which is much faster , but coverage is restricted to large citie . I 'm not aware of any businesses renting WiMax routers in Japan , although it is possible purchase the service monthly without a contract if your device already supports WiMax ( <URL> ) Last note is that Google Voice provides slightly better rates to Japanese phones than Skype ; however it does n't have the ability to have a Japanese number .
This wiki is a very good source of info : <URL> Many companies offer prepaid SIM cards . <URL> is a good option . I use a <URL> SIM card , which is a re-branded blau card that is sold for 5 $ in Netto grocery stores ; other discount grocery stores ( Lidl , ALDI , etc ) have their own offerings . A one-month data plan will cost 10-15 $ . I just saw an ad for what appears to be an amazing deal from Telekom ( the largest operator ) that seems to include unlimited use of the Telekom network for only 10 $ per month : <URL>
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
If she 's there for a year , it might be worth getting a contract , as that may well be cheaper overall . As she already has the phone , she 'd want a " SIM Only " deal , if she can get it . A carrier store on/near campus ought to be used to international students , so should be able to help if possible . ( I 've had a sales guy in a small AT&amp;T shop look at me like I was from Mars when I asked to buy a PAYG sim with data ... Luckily the store manager knew what I was on about , and was delighted to at last sell one ! ) I 've not tried T-Mobile PAYG before ( AT&amp;T has always worked out cheaper for the trips I 've done ) , but I 've not heard of T-Mobile SIMs not working in unlocked phones . It certainly is n't something that was mentioned the last time I almost got a T-Mobile one ... Are you sure it is n't just that most AT&amp;T phones are locked to AT&amp;T , so ca n't be taken to T-Mobile unless you get an unlock code for them ?
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
If you have a GSM phone ( with a SIM-card ) , <URL> is likely to work in many places ( see the list in the link ) . Note that it will work whether you 're roaming , or do n't have a SIM in the phone at all and the phone is locked . That 's basically the only number you 're guaranteed by the GSM standard to always be able to dial , and the mobile operators are required to redirect it to whatever it locally should be .
My personal experience has been that it 's best to get a SIM card for each country I travel in . Local providers almost always have the best deals , and buying SIM cards is relatively inexpensive . Especially in Asian countries ( where I have more travel experience ) you can easily pick up SIM cards at shopping kiosks almost anywhere , and the rates are really very cheap compared to where I live ( New Zealand ) . Data roaming from international providers is also very expensive ; as an example with my New Zealand cellphone provider in China I would pay $ US25 + a megabyte , whereas buying a local SIM card it cost me $ US8 for 250 megabytes .
Updated As of May 2014 , it works in both directions now ! As this edit demonstrates , from somewhere under the channel :) Yes , you can ! But currently until very recently , it was only in one direction ... As detailed in <URL> , Eurotunnel ( who own the tunnel ) have fitted leaky feeder aerials , base stations and repeaters to both tunnels , and it only took 10 months to kit out . Eurotunnel are then leasing them out to mobile operators . The North Tunnel , which is normally used for trains travelling from France to England , has been assigned as " France " and leased to French mobile phone operators . Service in this tunnel went live in July 2012 , and you can now use your phone to call / text / surf whilst travelling from France to England . It 's using French mobile operators though , so UK phones will be charged roaming just as they do in France . The South Tunnel , which is normally used for trains going from England to France , has been designated " England " as is to be leased to English mobile phone operators . However , despite being ready in 2012 , it took until <URL> , and as such mobile signal has only just started working in the UK to France direction . ( Quite why the UK networks were so useless is a different question ... ) The service from France - > UK , works well though , I can personally confirm it from earlier ! If you 're on the phone as you enter the tunnel , your call will continue uninterrupted , and work fine for the whole tunnel . However , just before leaving the tunnel your call will drop , as that 's where the French network ends . A few tens of seconds later your phone will sign-on with the UK network , and you 'll be able to call again . The service the other way , from the UK to France , still ( May 2014 ) seems to be suffering some teething problems . Mobiles do work , with the odd drop-out , but data is pretty flaky and suffers really slow speeds + long ping times . It 's possible they 'll sort that later , but for now internet largely only works in the " French tunnel " . ( I have managed to post to Travel.SE from the English tunnel , but it took most of the trip for the post to go through ! ) AFAICT , there is no mobile service offered in the third tunnel , the service tunnel , only the emergency radios work there .
Well , turns out this is really easy - I just entered a store and asked for a monthly plan which includes unlimited data , and the clerk was happy to offer me a choice between a couple of available plans , without any requirement except a credit card ( no need for zip code or credit check or American credit card / address ) . The store was T-Mobile , but I think other carriers offer similar deals as well . Just be aware that the listed plan prices usually do not include sim cost or one-time activation fee . Still , travelling with an Internet-enabled smartphone is amazing , and definitely worth some money . The sim card was activated almost immediately - I was able to data-surf while still in the store .
There 's a good description of the difference between the two on the <URL> The full version is at the link above , but in short : National parks emphasize strict preservation of pristine areas . They focus on protecting natural and historic resources " unimpaired for future generations . " Park rangers work for the National Park Service ( NPS ) under the Department of Interior . National forests , on the other hand , emphasize not only resource preservation , but other kinds of use as well . Under this concept of " multiple use , " national forests are managed to provide Americans with a wide variety of services and commodities , including lumber , cattle grazing , mineral products and recreation with and without vehicles . The national forests are managed by forest rangers with the US Forest Service ( USFS ) under the Department of Agriculture .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
I would recommend Kumano in southern Mie Prefecture , located about four hours south of Nagoya ( <URL> ) . I spent five years living very close to here and , based on familiarity with the area and its offerings , can recommend it to you ! It satisfies all of your criteria : We love rocky beaches , nature hikes , history , the smell of ocean air , the scenery of water , and we want to experience Japan in a smaller town way Kumano is located at the bottom of Japan 's Kii Peninsula and is one of the most isolated areas of the country , a region referred to as " Nanki " . It has a famous historical hiking path , called the " Kumano Kodo " , which winds through the mountains . It is rather famous in Japan for the smooth black rocks that makes up its beaches , which stretch from the city southward . I want to avoid bears and lethal animals . Ironically , the meaning of the name " Kumano " in Chinese characters ( 熊野 ) literally translates to " Bear Field " , but do n't let that fool you it is not a bear-heavy area . All hiking trails in the mountains in Japan will offer the possibility of some encounters with wildlife , however lethal animals attacks on mountain hikers in this region are exceedingly rare . Due to possible radiation , I 'd like to shun Fukushima and its surroundings . Kumano is approximately 800km away from the reactor in Fukushima prefecture so no worries I wo n't drive , so must rely on public transport and walking ( over reasonable distances ) . You can get to Kumano by express train . From the main train station you 'll be using ( Kumanoshi Station ) , you can get to both the ocean and mountain hiking trails on foot . The main area of the city is also very walkable . Public transportation for getting to nearby areas ( such as <URL> ) is available . However it runs rather infrequently , so you will probably find it easiest to stay in Kumano and its walkable surroundings . I want to evade temples and all buildings related to religion . Though the Kumano Kodo hiking trail , like many hiking trails in Japan , was originally laid out centuries ago as a pilgrimage route between a major template and a major shrine , the trail itself is not religious in the present day . Though there are some forks in the trail that will take you to temples , you can easily avoid them as they are far away from the portion of the trail in Kumano . I should mention that though you can easily avoid visiting temples and shrines while visiting Japan , there is basically no area of the country you can visit where there will be no existing temples or shrines present or nearby . No crowds please . As long as you do n't visit on Aug 17 ( the day of the <URL> ) , you 'll have no trouble with this point . It is one of the least-populated and least-visited areas of Japan 's main island , but has the advantage of being accessible from a major station ( Nagoya ) . Further reading and info in English about Kumano and the hiking trails there : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
end question
start question
Iquitos or Puerto Maldonado , for jungle adventures in Peru ?
I 'll note up front that I 've only been to Puerto Maldonado of the two , but of your interests you 've listed : While Puerto Maldonado is on the Rio Madre de Dios , Iquitos is on the Amazon River proper . At Iquitos it is already at least three times the size of Rio Madre de Dios . Advantage : Iquitos . Monkeys are visible at both , but the river dolphins are only present at Iquitos . Advantage : Iquitos . You wo n't be spending much time in Puerto Maldonado proper if you do visit , as presumably you would be staying in lodges in the jungle . There is not much in town . While wildlife might be " better " ( an admittedly subjective term ) around Puerto Maldonado , it is still largely luck of the draw . The only large non-aquatic animals we saw in half a week were capybara , though we were taken to a family of river otters as well as spotting a caiman . Overall I would suggest opting for Iquitos based off my and others ' anecdotal evidence and your priorities , but with a caveat that if you are willing to spend the time and money to travel up to Manu National Park you may receive a different experience to our 's .
I am told , the problem with them Indian customs is , you can read them boys all the rules from the book , but if they see you with more than 2 average sized ( 750 ml ? ) alcoholic bottles , you have had it . By the book , you can carry 2 liters of alcohol : <URL> The best option in experiences of people I know and as others here have suggested , it 's best to buy in US , pack well and put it in the check in luggage . Many liquors are way cheaper in the state run package stores than what it is in any other package/beverage store . In case it helps , I think last time I bought a Gelnlivet 18 year old 750 ml was 95 bucks . But you have to also keep in mind , the bottle weight of such liquor can get very heavy . There should n't be any problem all along the way . Just my personal suggestion ; You get all the GLENLIVETs and GLENFIDDICHs in India for reasonable price . How about taking something exquisite which is n't available in India at all ? May be a Tequila 1800 ?
Yes , you do need an ESTA . <URL> ( = ESTA needed for EU citizens ) , and like all other US airports , <URL> does not recognize the concept of visa-free transit .
Confusingly , there 's another option if you want to visit Takayama and Kanazawa : The <URL> , which is n't listed in the <URL> , but on another page called <URL> , which has the logos of JR Central and JR West , which was linked to from the site of <URL> . That was the option I chose .
There are a few companies in Tarapoto that go to Chachapoyas , we asked around and we found Movil tours ( big buses ) and Turismo Selva ( combi ) that went direct to Chachapoyas and Excluciva ( big buses ) and Virgen tours ( combi ) that went to Pedro Ruiz . Pedro Ruiz is a common stop along that route , on the way back we stopped there and flagged a combi type van that took us back to Tarapoto . There 's very frequent vans on that route so it 's always possible to just signal to one and if there 's space they 'll take you . In the end we went with Turismo Selva because they had the earliest departures ( 7am ) and it cost 35 soles .
Short Answer The short answer to your question is you should check the " staying " box since the purpose of your layover is to visit friends . The duration of this layover is not important according to US immigration laws . What matters is the purpose . See below for the explanation . Long Answer Defining Transit vs Stay I believe that the temporal definition of " to transit " and " to stay " do not apply in this case . The difference between the two lies not in the duration of your permanence at a given place . I think " transit " means that you remain in the international area of the airport , thus you never really enter the country . Whereas " staying " means that you go through immigration checks and exit the international area of the airport . Thus you effectively enter the country . US Transit vs Visit I could not find a true air-travel-related definition , however there is <URL> ( thanks @ <URL> ) , from the US Bureau of Consular Affairs . Here a clear definition is made between the transit visa , which allows you to layover in the US for transit purposes only , and a visitor visa , which allows to layover in the us for the purpose of visiting friends . This seems to apply directly yo your case : Travel purposes not permitted on a Transit ( C ) Visa - Examples : A foreign citizen whose layover in the United States is for a primary purpose other than to transit , for example to visit friends or sightsee , requires a visitor ( B ) visa . So to answer your question you should check the " staying " box , even if you plan on departing 24 hours after entering the country , since you are visiting friends . Schenghen Transit vs Visit Similar concepts apply <URL> . There are transit visas which allow you to remain in the transit area of the airport , and the short-term visa which allows you to exit the transit area to go sleep in a hotel . Quoting the website : Therefore you would not be considered " in transit " if you spent a night anywhere outside the international area of the airport . UK Transit Visas Thanks to <URL> I now have new information regarding yet another particular situation : the UK . The UK has <URL> : <URL> <URL> Visitor in Transit Visa Apply for this one if you are going through immigration , i.e. if you are effectively crossing the border into UK . This can be because you have to check-in your luggage on a connecting flight , because you want to visit friends , or do sightseeing . Maximum validity is 48h . Direct Airside Transit Visa Apply for this one if you are changing flights without having to go through immigration .
I ultimately found one walking tour in the region , in Bonn to be specific . The website is <URL> . As the details are buried in a PDF I 'll quote them here . Bonn - Roman Settlement , Baroque Residence and Beethoven City Discover Bonn ´ s numerous sights on a walking tour through the historical city centre The historical centre of Bonn offers an abundance of sights which are easily reached on foot . The major points are the Beethoven monument , the romanesque Minster Cathedral , the Electors palace ( nowadays the University ) with the elegant Hofgarten and the baroque City Hall . The tour also takes you to the banks of the Rhine , near the Opera , from which river excursions on the boats of the Weiße Flotte ( white fleet ) are possible . The imposing view of Germany ´ s oldest nature park Siebengebirge ( seven hills ) can be seen from the banks of the Rhine . The tour ends at Ludwig van Beethoven ' s birthplace in the Bonngasse . Here you have the opportunity to visit Beethoven ´ s birthplace with the Digital Beethoven House on your own . The entrance fee must be paid separately at the Beethoven House . Date and Time : Saturdays from 27 April to 26 October at 11 am Meeting place : Bonn-Information , Windeckstraße 1 / am Münsterplatz ( nearby Minster Cathedral Square ) Duration : around 1 1/2 hours Price : Adults 9 $ , with reduction 5 $ ( children aged 12-17 , students , disabled ) I did n't find out until after I payed , but tour is actually conducted in German and also in English if there are English speaking people joining the tour . As I was the only English speaker in the tour it felt a bit awkward , but the tour was still very interesting and I would recommend it .
Depending on the country , long stays can be exempt from various taxes . This is an example for <URL> , but I believe it is also the case in many ( all ? ) other US states . Permanent Residents ( 30-Day Rule ) Guests who occupy a hotel room for 30 or more consecutive days are considered permanent residents and are exempt from hotel tax . There can be no interruption of payment during that period . If your stay is not this long , depending on the hotel , the cost of a stay can be any combination of subsets of that stay . I stay in hotels 100s of nights per year and the cost of a 3 day stay in the hotel chain I use could be cheaper if I book as day 1 + days 2-3 , or 1-2 + 3 , or 1 + 2 + 3 or 1-3 . I wrote a program to calculate all of this and can save over $ 1000 for a 2 week stay by finding the optimal combination . Just like airline ticket prices , hotel prices can also fluctuate massively . Booking shorter refundable stays and monitoring the price can lead to being able to rebook these and save considerably . However , in this case you are gambling that the refundable price drops below the current non-refundable price . As Calchas says , you can also attempt to negotiate with the hotel directly too .
Getting a B1/B2 would easily cover both your needs and makes more sense in your case . Supplying more information would also improve your chances of getting that visa .
First of all , it 's definitely Soi ( but sounds more like ) , this is official transliteration of the . Secondary , as others mentioned , you must do a stop during your flight at Moscow - unfortunately , in Russia many flights are made with such stop . I suggest you to stop for a day in Moscow , just for another sightseeing there . Also : Flight duration from Moscow to Sochi - 2 hours Flight duration from Moscow to Khanty-Mansiysk - 3 hours , and flight by is made from other airport than you 'll land from Frankfurt ! , if you choose the UTAir . You can choose the TransAero , but it 's not as cheap as Sochi flight . And most important part : sightseeing and weather . Khanty-Mansiysk 's average temperature is -9,8 ° С , and sometimes there is cold weather , down to -40.1 ° С ( March , 1st , 1966 ) . Sochi 's average temperature is +15 ° С , with sea temperature up to +9 ° С . You can try it out - extreme , but quite fun :) There will be a snow machines for Biathlon in Sochi , but natural snow is in Khanty-Mansiysk . As for the sightseeing , in Khanty-Mansiysk is all about the World Cup - people there love skiing , and you will be bored there if you are not a fan of it . There are quite <URL> ( in Russian ) , and even less of them you 'll be interested in during cold weather . As for <URL> , you 'll find much more fun there - because it is a very popular touristic center during long time . And because of preparing for the Olympic games , there are much more easier for foreign tourist to get information about city - people started to study languages , and whole touristic situation changed in a good way . So , make your choice , but if I were you , I 'd start with Sochi ( plus 1-2 days stop in Moscow ) - for start it will be enough . But if you want some extreme - choose the Khanty-Mansiysk , it will be a journey of the year for you .
I do not believe it is legal for hunters to sell their wild game directly to restaurants in the surrounding states , so even though " wild " game and poultry are available on many Washington , D.C.-area menus , a farm-to-table arrangement is usually advertised . Chowhound and , to a lesser extent , MenuPages , is a good resource . Bison , duck , quail , and rabbit are relatively widely available , and you can even get elk and deer venison burgers at the Fuddrucker 's hamburger chain . There are a couple of restaurants in the Washington area known for their wild game offerings ( bolded below ) , but note that such dishes are often seasonal and that menus change often . It 's always good to contact the restaurant to confirm a particular dish is available . Great Falls has two restaurants featuring wild game on their regular menu . <URL> in Great Falls offers emu , antelope , rabbit , venison , wild boar , and assorted wild game dishes . " <URL> , an Alsatian restaurant , has deer and quail dishes , and has offered pheasant and elk in the past . In Arlington , there is <URL> with venison , rabbit , and bison dishes , and in Falls Church the well-regarded <URL> offers a venison chop and has offered guinea hen and pheasant in the past . In Washington , <URL> offers a separate wild game menu , currently featuring quail , venison , and wild boar . Other places with the occasional quail , venison , or boar dish include <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> .
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
If you were storing a few bags for one day , or one bag for a few days , you might have more options . To leave a few bags for a few days , however , you will need to do some legwork . The first place I would check would be with your hotel in San Francisco . Some hotels are more willing to do this than others , and storage conditions may vary widely -- a locked room in some cases , stacked in a corner behind the desk in others . It is extremely common for guests to ask that bags be held for a few hours on the day of checkin or checkout ; asking for multiple days is worth a shot , especially if you are staying there for several days , and most especially if you are staying there before and after the excursion . Generous tips ( before and after ) to the concierge or bell desk may help . The second place I would check is with the motorcycle rental agency . You 're hardly the first people to not want to lug suitcases around on the back of a bike . I know EagleRider and MotoQuest explicitly do offer luggage storage as a complimentary service . I would also check to see if any private clubs you are a member of have reciprocal relationships with San Francisco-area private clubs , and if they have facilities you could leave the bags at . For example , members of the <URL> can request an invitation from the <URL> . It 's a thought . But there 's little incentive for a company or other organization with no relationship with you to accept . They do n't want to store , or be accused of storing , anything dangerous or illegal , and they do n't want responsibility for the bags or anything in them being stolen . The only public left luggage facility in San Francisco proper , so far as I can tell , is at the <URL> at <URL> ( toward the eastern end of Fisherman 's Wharf ) , which charges $ 5 per bag . The lady with whom I just spoke on the phone , however , says they do not permit overnight storage . You could call around to other hotels and hostels and see by trial and error if anyone will take them on . The Chancellor Hotel comes up in some web searches as an option . The Pacific Tradewinds Hostel <URL> storage to its guests . Now , maybe you do n't care to stay there , but at $ 32/night , booking a bunk that stays empty would still be cheaper than the airport ATA . The <URL> and <URL> say they offer luggage storage facilities , but I could not find any information on the services , prices , or policies . Online comments about the temporary transbay bus terminal are universally negative . Emeryville is not especially easy to get to by public transportation , either ; you would need to take BART to <URL> then the <URL> shuttle bus . Speaking of BART , I have seen some people advise renting a bicycle locker , but this takes a lot of advance planning , and presumably , a local address for your application form , only to leave your bags half-exposed to the elements and at risk of theft . I do n't recommend it . Further down the list , you could rent a car , stick the bags in the trunk , and find someplace safe and cheap to park for the duration of your excursion . I extended a rental car for a day once precisely for this purpose in Hawaii , but have no recommendations for the Bay Area .
Personally , I 'd definitely go for renting a car . Puerto Rico 's a very car-centric place and you really need to your own wheels to get around anywhere outside San Juan ( and arguably there as well if you plan on venturing outside the old city walls ) . Roads , signage and driving is n't too far behind mainland US standards , especially compared to what you see elsewhere in Central America and the Caribbean , so it 's the easy option as well . Plus they even use kilometers and liters like sensible people ... although for some bizarre reason speed limits are still in miles ! A taxi from San Juan to Fajardo would cost you around $ 80 one-way , which is pretty poor value compared to just renting a car for $ 50-ish/day . I 'm not sure what buses you 're talking about , since as far as I know Puerto Rico 's only long-distance public transport option is the público , which is really just a shared taxi without a fixed schedule . ( San Juan does have scheduled buses , but they 're all local services . ) They leave from awkwardly located terminals at random times when they happen to fill up , and unless you get there at the hairy butt crack of dawn ( 6-7 AM ) , you may be in for a long wait . I made the mistake of showing up at Ponce 's terminal at 10 AM once , and it took me two hours to get a ride to San Juan , this on what 's probably the " busiest " route in the territory between its two biggest cities . Once they do get going , they stop randomly along the way and at your destination to drop off people , which also makes them far slower than driving from point A to point B by yourself . Pretty much the only upside is that they 're cheap , SJ to Fajardo would be around $ 5/head .
I have called the bus companies and checked some testimonies on web and of my friends regarding the WiFi on this buses . I 'm glad to tell you that the 3 of them have the service , however it is not available for all the routes . Cruz del Sur : It has WiFi available for 80 % of the routes . It is not a fast connection but you can check email , and look at webpages ; but it would be a bad idea to use it for viewing YouTube videos and such . Ormeño : It has WiFi for their international routes . Oltursa : It has WiFi for only 50 % of destinations . Of course the WiFi service is only for the premium tickets so you will have to pay extra and speed is not that great . You have to know that 70 % of the internet users here in Peru only have 2Mb ... so it is going to be slow and possibly get disconnected during some hours in the trip .
No each of these countries has a different set of carriers . Even where the name is similar such as Claro Peru and Claro Argentina the SIM chips do not work on each others networks . However the solution is simple . Just buy a cheap unlocked phone here ( most phones in South America that I have seen have been unlocked ) and buy a new pre-paid SIM chip in each country . They usually cost a few dollars for the chip plus whatever phone credit you want for the chip . You might need to have your passport or national ID card with you when you buy a chip or have a local friend buy it for you . This was n't required in Peru or Bolivia but was when I was in Brazil and might be in Argentina . Personally I got a quad band phone that it could work in any country in the world but if you want to save on the phone you could get a dual band ( GSM Frequencies : 850/1900 ) one that would in in South America and maybe a few other places . Nextel phones only work on their network . Carriers : Peru : Claro , Movistar , Nextel . Bolivia : Entel , Tigo , and Viva . Argentina : Claro , Movistar , Nextel , Personal . You can find info on cell phone companies and bands in other North and South American countries here <URL>
Both Turin and Genova are two big cities able to provide you a lot of attractions , the choice of the best one really depends on what you are interested in and what kind of cities you prefer in general . As a personal point of view I consider Turin far more elegant than Genova : nice streets with elegant buildings , the possibility to climb ( by car or by a little old train ) on the hill of Superga close to the city and have a wonderful view on the city and the Alps in the background , a lot of history related mostly with the period of the wars that brought to the formation of Italy as a single state ( but also big roman ruins ) , the biggest egyptian museum in the world outside Egypt and a vibrant night-life . Genova has a strong connection with the sea : the wonderful acquarium is considered its main attraction and its internal streets ( Carrugi ) are quite peculiar too . Even Genova has a rich history and has been one of the major european cities in term of power , so you can find several nice buildings reflecting this . I do n't know about the night-life there but I never heard anybody praising it like I did with the Turin one . Regarding the food , both have particular regional dishes ( pesto from Genova for example ) but I guess that Turin with the wonderful wines from Piemonte and the " fassona " meat could be considered better even from this point of view .
If you have a Nokia Symbian device , then you can get <URL> installed on it . Ovi Maps allows you to download map files for as many countries as you want and store in on your memory card . Once that 's done , you can set Ovi Maps to offline mode and still be able to use it to get directions . If you get a local SIM , then it will be able to show you rough location data too . I find Google Maps ' public transit planning feature very handy too but I often can not use it on roaming . Instead , I use this app called <URL> ( available for iPhone , BlackBerry , Symbian , Windows Mobile , PalmOS - no Android or Windows Phone 7 version yet ) that allows you to store public transit information data offline for many major cities around the world . <URL> ; you can also use the same page to customise your download in case you do not want the full package . They are <URL> too . EDIT : Google Maps has recently launched a beta feature ( only on Android phones though ) that allows you to save map data for a specific radius on your phone for offline usage . Not as useful as downloading maps for a whole country like Ovi Maps allows , but if you have wifi access every now and then on the road then you should be able to take bits of Google Maps offline on the go . EDIT 2 : Android users can also try out the free <URL> app that allows you download offline maps country-by-country . The maps themselves are mostly barebones with no point-of-interest data .
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
If you want to experience perpetual summer , starting in Paris in October and then going to eastern Europe is not the best of ideas . And , depending on where in Turkey you plan to go , winters can get quite cold . Parts of Ethiopia have perpetual cold nights , any time of the year . Northern Iran can be very cold in winter . Furthermore , based on your description , you seem to plan on getting to South America in the middle of the year , which is the southern hemisphere 's winter . South American winter ai n't comparable to , say , central Asia 's , but particularly the south ( of South America ) can get very cold . And plenty of the beach resorts on the continent 's west coast wo n't be open for swimming . If , on the other hand , your only option is to go to the US from Paris , you 'd head into North American winter , which can also be pretty harsh . So , if you are flexible in your journey , but not in your dates , and assuming you will be traveling for about a year , I 'd say your best bet would be something like ... Paris - South America - North America ( at the start of spring ) - Asia - Middle East ( at the start of autumn ) - Europe .
end question
start question
Can I get a discount on my flight for not being overweight ?
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
You can look up a comparable flight for today on <URL> . This is best done as close to your date of departure as possible , as terminal use may change occasionally . You can usually see tomorrows flights as well . For example : <URL> <URL> The websites of the respective airports will also usually have this information , especially the outbound airport . Terminal info on arrivals varies between airport websites .
I agree that the information on the linked webpage is useless . The refers to card ( <URL> in Slovenian ) , which is a localized co-branded variant of the <URL> . There is also a localised non-branded version , called , which does not provide the same benefits ( no rail related discounts ) and is therefore equal to the youth cards purchased in other countries . It seems ( <URL> in Slovenian ) that this version is available only to permanent and temporary residents , aged 12-26 , that pay the yearly subscription fee ( 10 $ at the time of writing ) , which might exclude you . The absence of translations of this webpage seems to confirm the suspicion that it is only intended for locals . Note that the discount only seems possible with this specific co-branded card , not the youth cards that may be purchased in other countries . Searching the international discount database does <URL> the Slovenian railways , but there 's a remark , claiming that is needed . The reason for residence requirement appears to be that these cards are mailed-only , meaning you need a local address to mail to . It might be worth to ask the railroad company about this directly , to see if this can be wroked around . You can find the email at the bottom of the page which you linked ( the potnik.info one ) . Just send them an email in English .
Usually , depending on the country , an embassy or consulate is where you 'd go to , in order to obtain a visa . In your case , the nearest ( that I can find ) is the <URL> . 1233 West Loop South , Park Tower North , Suite 1150 Houston , TX 77027 (713) 961-3063 / 64/65 Fax : (713) 961-3070 E-mail : consbras@brazilhouston.org So they 'd be your most likely best bet for first point of call . For a rough idea of the documentation you 'll need to apply for your visa , have a look at the <URL> - they have a solid wall of information which will be of great use . If you 're really worried about the process , your travel agent would be able to help out with the whole thing . If you do n't have a travel agent , do n't worry , really , many of us apply for visas all the time , and while the wall of documents required sounds scary , as long as you follow the steps it 's actually pretty straightforward . Note that according to the Miami website , it can take 10-45 days to process depending on the method taken , so given you are travelling in March , I 'd get the ball moving on the whole process pretty soon .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
I did a route like that last year with a friend of mine . We started in Belgium , went first to Ukraine , then down through Romania , Bulgaria , Turkey , Syria and Jordan , where took the boat to Egypt , then went down to Sudan and Ethiopia . We could easily have driven further down , but we ran out of time . ( Planning to continue later on in my/our life . ) We avoided Israel as otherwise it can be difficult to enter other countries ( especially Egypt and Sudan ) when you have Israelian stamps in your passport . Although we 've been also told that you can get stamps on a separate paper , so you can easily remove them after you left the country . But this is still no guarantee they will let you in as an attentive border control agent could see that there is a period of time missing between different stamps in your passport and still refuse to let you in . Another point which might be interesting : most countries tell you you need a Carnet de Passage to be able to temporarily import a vehicle . We experienced that it is actually possible to do a trip like that without a Carnet . See this question for more information : <URL> Another tidbit of trivia worth mentioning : Did you know , once you get on to the European highway E40 ( which does n't run far from Amsterdam ) driving East , you can actually travel more than 8000 kilometer <URL> !
It should be okay for you to apply for ESTA , because the visa you hold is not a B-1 or B-2 visa . If you were to travel to the United States for purposes of tourism , or business purposes unrelated to the visa you now hold , you would in fact be required to apply for ESTA or for a B visa . ( I 'm not sure , however , what will happen if you can check in using your ESTA , and subsequently enter using the visa . ) For example , at <URL> , you can see that for an E-2 visa " you must be coming to the United States to develop and direct the enterprise . " See also at <URL> : Q : What if a traveler has a current , valid visa ? A : Individuals who possess a valid visa will still be able to travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose for which it was issued . Individuals traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA authorization . This implies that you can apply for ESTA to travel to the United States for a purpose other than one for which your valid visa was issued . You also express concern about whether you might have trouble when entering the United States , since you will have been indicated on the carrier 's passenger list as a VWP traveler , but you will be presenting a visa at entry . I doubt that you will have trouble because of it . I can think of two reasons you might : Applying for ESTA with no intention of using the VWP Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations , section 217.5 ( a ) says Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) must , within the time specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , receive a travel authorization ... You might therefore run into trouble because you do n't actually intend to travel to the US under the VWP . But it does n't actually say that those who do n't intend to travel can not receive the authorization . Furthermore , CBP notes that people can apply for ESTA <URL> . Checking in with ESTA and entering with a visa Here , I can only speculate , but I guess that the carrier is more likely to get in trouble for this than you are . You could approach the ground staff at the airport to correct your record with information about your visa , but this would defeat your apparent purpose of getting on the plane quickly and easily .
Assuming we 're talking about a watch-style or pedometer-style fitness tracker , it should be no problem . Just take it off and put it through the X-ray , like you would with any other electronic device . In rare cases , it 's possible the security agents will ask you to demonstrate that it 's functioning , at which point you could show them the LCD display , but it 's pretty unlikely they 'll ask . Source : personal experience . Also the TSA 's <URL> feature says a Fitbit is fine .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
You can get Biometrics for a Canadian Visa done at any USCIS Application Support Center ( ASC ) . The list of <URL> . You can find the instructions for attending an ASC on the <URL> - scroll down to the section entitled " If applying from within the United States "
You 're unlikely to have much issue with the carry-on limitations with just one or two small items held in your hands . A cell phone and pair of earphones in your pocket certainly does n't count toward carry-on baggage limits . The bigger issue is the need to secure items in the cabin for takeoff and landing . Many airlines ( particularly US airlines in my experience ) will instruct passengers to stow laptops at this time ( as they can become dangerous projectiles in case of an emergency ) and specifically state that a seatback pocket is not an acceptable place to store a laptop . Many new seat designs have done away with seatback pockets all together as well . Laptops must be stored under the seat in front of you or in the overhead bin . These are not places I would want to leave a bare laptop ( laptops will slide on the plane 's carpet ) . As such , I 'd highly recommend at least a small inexpensive <URL> to protect your MacBook . At security , customs , and immigration , one issue is just physically handling your items ; navigating an airport with a bare laptop in hand is somewhat inconvenient ( how would you hang on to it while you went to the bathroom for instance ? ) and makes it easy to accidentally lose something . Quickly handing over your ID and scanning your boarding pass is difficult to do one-handed , and carrying a tray of food while trying to hold your laptop in your armpit can quickly become precarious . Furthermore , security officials are trained to be suspicious of people who do not fit into the normal pattern of travelers , and someone who has no bag and chooses to carry a laptop in his hands is at least a little unusual . It 's not that you would n't be allowed to travel , but an immigration officer might ask you more questions . At a minimum , the items would need to come out of your pockets at airport security . Beyond that , there are some additional items I like to carry with me when I travel even if I am checking the bulk of my luggage . Medications , if you take any , should never be checked , as you would have a problem on your hands if your bags are delayed or lost . A change of underwear and a spare t-shirt are a nice backup in cast of lost luggage too , and I generally want basic toiletries for long flights . On a long flight , it 's nice to be able to take keys and such out of my pockets for a little more comfort . All those things go inside my bag . Finally , where 's the charger for your MacBook in all this ? In short , while this can work , I ca n't really understand why you want to do this . There 's a reason you do n't see people clutching laptops in airports ; a small bag or laptop case is the simplest way to carry and protect your items . Most travelers have realized this and so bring one along . How is not using a bag more convenient ?
Hotels , like most travel services , work very much on a supply-and-demand basis . If the demand is high , then prices will go up , and eventually hotels will sell out even at the higher prices . If the demand is low , prices do sometimes come down over time - although frequently the hotels themselves will not want to drop their prices below a certain level , which is where opaque bookings like Hotwire/Priceline come in , selling the hotels excess inventory depending on how many free rooms they have . Priceline/Hotwire prices definitely do vary significantly night-to-night for the same properly , based primarily on the hotels expected occupancy rates . This means that as the date gets closer , the price may drop , but it may also rise or even not be available at all . Depending on the size of the event you 're attending it 's even possible that it will have an impact on the number of rooms available - frequently it 's difficult to find any rooms available in an area , let alone cheap rooms , if there is a major conference/sporting event/etc occurring at the time . As the event gets closer , room availability gets lower , prices get higher , and opaque booking venders end up getting allocated zero rooms to sell ! If you must have a hotel , it 's often a good idea to find somewhere with a good cancellation policy ( eg , allowing you to cancel up until at least a day or two before the event ) - this gives you the certainty of having somewhere to stay if prices go up , but also allows you to keep looking/bidding for cheaper rooms as the date gets closer . If you find somewhere cheaper , simply cancel your initial reservation !
<URL> provides an excellent overview of radiation types and what you are most liable to encounter . For airline flights gamma-radiation is the most probable type . ( Alpha particles are stopped by paper , Beta by thin foil or similar . You can buy commercial instruments that will detect radiation for from about $ 200 on up . An off the shelf " PIN diode " acts as an adequate gamma radiation detector in many cases . <URL> from Maxim . Their notes are worth reading in this context . <URL> They say : Abstract : A PIN photodiode , four low-noise op amps and a comparator are used to detect individual photons of gamma radiation . The schematic , design considerations and component selection are discussed . The circuit of Figure 1 includes a PIN photodiode that detects individual photons of gamma radiation . When a photon strikes a depletion region created by reverse bias on the photodiode , it produces a small amount of charge in proportion to the photon 's energy . The resulting signal is then amplified and filtered by four amplifiers and a final comparator distinguishes between the signal and noise . The comparator output pulses high each time a gamma photon with sufficient energy strikes the photodiode . <URL> <URL> <URL> ADDED Here is a description of a DIY real world Gamma Ray detector based on a PIN diode . Made by VK2ZAY - Australian radio-amateur . A number of other on-web designs are based on his work . <URL> <URL> good . Here is a <URL> Related videos - same device <URL> and <URL> and <URL>
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
Having arrived at Malta airport February 1 , 2016 , there was a booth ( I think towards the right hand side from Arrivals ) where I was able to purchase a Tallinja card for $ 21 for 7-days . The booth also accepts Amex cards . This covers the whole of Malta and Gozo ( Għawdex ) . Whether or not this can be topped-up I 'm not sure . <URL>
The only international student ID I am aware of is ISIC and in Poland you can get one in one of the places listed on their Polish web site : <URL> I do n't know if they will be willing to issue you with a card based on your American student ID though . It might depend on local branch managers interpretation . You should also check if you are entitled for travel discount , the rules seem to be different for different cities and modes of transport . It seems that the ISIC card is enough for trams in Wroclaw : <URL>
end question
start question
What headwear are women legally required to wear in Iran ?
I visited last year . My pure understanding of the law there obviously is n't perfect as an outsider , but the following of the ' law ' seemed very rough , women would wear a covering , but sometimes only over the bob of a pony-tail , for example . However , if in a place of business , eg a hotel or restaurant , you 'd regularly see proprietors or staff quickly address a woman who had had her hijab slip back or off a bit too far , usually apologetically - they did n't want to get into trouble themselves . There was a variety - you 'd see headscarves , niqabs and hijabs , but the basic rule seemed to be - cover most of your hair , or get told off . This was in public , however , in the privacy of people 's houses , these rules seemed to vanish .
I would suggest a thin jacket to protect you from cold wind and a thin sweater that you can put over whatever you are wearing . Both together should protect you enough . The temperature might drop end of December/January some more so the later you come the colder it gets , sometimes down to 8 degrees . Right now it 's 25 for example . What I have to tell you however is that you will never get a good answer to that . I know people from South India who wear woolen hats and winter jackets when it 's below 30 degrees . And I see enough people in Hong Kong that wear shorts &amp; t-shirts when it 's 10 degrees in Hong Kong . So you will have to make your own decisions . It also highly matters where you are going , what you do and where you stay . Feeling cold is not a matter of being outside in Hong Kong . Homes and offices are usually colder than hotels and restaurants . Homes have often very thin windows and few have heaters and offices have maybe good insulated windows but a central aircon that can not heat and will blow cool air the whole day . That makes them colder than outside in cases . I know enough people who walk around in thick jackets in the office and sometimes at home during the days where it 's below 15 degrees . Outdoors it also depends what you are doing ... hiking , walking around , sitting somewhere ...
Right , I 've not been there , but I 'll try and say what I would do , as your food methodology seems to echo mine :) The <URL> would be my first stop if you 've not tried Ostrich meat . Dried , sliced , or in a burger , it 's a delicious meat . Snorkelling sounds pretty great there , and for once you 're not left out with wrecks that only scuba divers can get to ( I ca n't scuba dive , so I 'm jealous ) . There are many snorkel tours , and the one that sounds interesting to me is the Antillla Shipwreck . It is the remains of a scuttled 400-foot German cargo ship that was anchored off of Aruba during WW2 . It was thought that this ship was supplying German U-Boats in the Caribbean and after Holland was invaded in 1940 , the captain was given notice to surrender the ship . Instead of surrendering the ship to the Dutch Marines the captain sunk the ship by blowing up the boilers . I 'd also check out the Arikok National Park - The park consists of lava formations , a quartz diorite formation and a limestone formation extending inward from the coastline . If you enjoy spelunking , there 's the Guadirkiri Caves to check out as well ! Boca Catalina beach is near the aforementioned wreck , has more snorkelling options and great white sandy beaches . Most chains are there ( Subway , BK , Pizza Hut and the rest ) but I 'd be trying to hunt out the local foods - the most unusual sounding being Iguana soup ! Yum ! And if you drink , you 're in Aruba , please do n't forget to try some Jamaican rum !
You can take the N10 ( <URL> ) all the way across the southern coast of Pakistan and it will put you in the south of Iran , completely by-passing Afghanistan . To get to it though , you 'll have to travel from China through India and cross into Pakistan . If you fancy a journey through Pakistan itself , you can cross at the Wagah point in Lahore ( the provincial capital of Punjab , Pakistan ) . You can get to it from Amritsar in Indian Punjab . From Lahore , you can take the highway ( or fly ) down to Karachi ( the largest city in Pakistan ) , and then just take the road to the port of Gawadar . The journey will take you through a <URL> and a <URL> . You will cross the border at the city of Taftan , which will drop you in Mirjaveh in Iran . Update : I recently returned from Pakistan and the passages are still there , but due to the <URL> a police escort must be requested for foreigners crossing land borders into Iran and Afghanistan .
<URL> is the largest of its kind in the UK . This year it will take place at Herstmonceux Castle East Sussex , UK on the 24th , 25th and 26th August 2013 . Held annually since 1992 over the three days of the August Bank Holiday Weekend , England 's Medieval Festival at Herstmonceux Castle is Britain 's largest and most magnificant celebration of the colourful Middle Ages . Edit : Also of interest <URL> is now widely regarded as the largest medieval gathering of its kind in Europe , and attracts re-enactors , traders and entertainers , and visitors from all over the world . Its central attraction is a re-enactment of the Battle of Tewkesbury , on part of the site of the original 1471 battlefield . Many of the participants including wives and children live as a medieval army in authentic medieval encampments for the whole weekend . The event features a wide range of period entertainment , including music , dance and drama as well as a collection of fascinating characters from the past . This year the festivities will take place on the 13-14th July 2013 . See their <URL>
While I do n't regularly sleep in the airports , I suggest you check out <URL> : Whether you are sleeping in the airport by yourself or with friends , it is good to know where security is . Know where their office is and look for video cameras in the spot you decide to stay the night . They 've probably seen many airport sleepers before you and they will direct you to a safe spot . If you suspect a problem with airport security , you may want to follow this tip and sleep in the car : Whether you are stuck in the airport overnight or choose to be there voluntarily , there may be a chance that you will be uncomfortable and unhappy with your surroundings in the terminal . If you are travelling on a budget and do not want to fork out for one of the airport hotels , head over to the car rentals hall to find out the cost of a car rental and ( assuming you can keep the car in the lot at no cost ) sleep in the car . The great part about this is that you can recline on padded seats and there will be no annoying security announcements or rattling luggage carts whipping past your head throughout the night . On the negative side , car horns and screeching tires may jolt you from your slumber . Sure the car rental staff may look into your car wondering if you 've had a stroke and the bathroom may be an issue depending on the location of the nearest toilet , but hey , you 're saving money here ! Very important - remember to check the drop-off hours to ensure a staff member will be there when you " drop-off " the car before your flight the next morning ! This is easier at larger airports . Also , make sure to <URL> so you know if there are known problems before you face them . Good luck !
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
For the general area , there 's no dress code - you even see people wandering through in their swimming gear after they 've been in the pool ! I 've been in wearing tshirt and jeans , feeling underdressed until I saw the tourists in their tshirt and shorts with flip-flops . However , you may wish to consider what else you want to do in Vegas , and dress accordingly . Many nightclubs have dress codes , as do some of the restaurants . Night clubs in fact often suggest <URL> - leather shoes , collared shirts , and so on . If you 're seeing a show , people tend to dress up for those - smart long-sleeved shirt and trousers , although again it 's not a strict rule . And if you 're just wandering the streets looking , it 's handy to have light clothes in summer - it can get seriously hot !
As a UK Gov directive it is still applicable . <URL> states A person who intends to remain in the United Kingdom for more than 6 months should normally be referred to the Medical Inspector for examination . If he produces a medical certificate he should be advised to hand it to the Medical Inspector . Any person seeking entry who mentions health or medical treatment as a reason for his visit , or who appears not to be in good mental or physical health , should also be referred to the Medical Inspector ; and the Immigration Officer has discretion , which should be exercised sparingly , to refer for examination in any other case This <URL> ( Last updated 10 March 2010 ) states Advise the applicant to carry the original TB certificate ( and their chest X-ray ) in their hand luggage for presentation to an immigration officer on arrival in the UK to prevent delays or referral to the Port Medical Inspector ( PMI ) . Whether it is followed in practice at LHR , I 'm not sure . I did travel to UK on a Work Permit between 2002 to 2006 and was not once asked to present the X-Ray even after clarifying my long term stay .
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
Basically , the answer is no . It 's anecdotal but I have heard many reports about people being denied entry to the US based on repeated travel to " unfriendly " countries , never to European countries ( and especially not to the Schengen area ) . Generally speaking , there is a sharp distinction in the US between citizens and residents , whose rights enjoy strong legal protections , and foreigners , for whom everything goes , especially at the border . Not so in the EU . It 's not to say that EU countries are exemplary ( they are not , you can find many egregious examples of that ) but there is an expectation of due process at the border and a rather restrictive list of valid reasons to deny entry . Denying entry based solely on your having visited a third country is not common practice and would probably not be legal . Beyond fraud and intent to immigrate illegally , the main reason to deny entry is that you present a threat to public safety and the hurdle for that is higher than just having visited a country .
<URL> : lockers are now available in Porto downtown at Trindade metro station - with direct connection to Porto Airport . The station is opened all the year from 06am to 01am , and the service it 's not expensive . Another link to the <URL> shows more information . Their FAQ is broken in English , but from my rough translation , it 's not necessary to reserve , they 're open from 6am to 1am , and the baggage dimensions for storage are : Small : 36x48x85 cm . Medium : 36x65x85 cm . Large : 36x99x85 cm . The prices depend on how long and how large a locker you require , and are available <URL> . It varies between 1 Euro for 1 hour for a small bag up to 6 Euros for an all day storage of a large one . At the time of writing there is just one block of lockers comprising 16 small lockers , 9 medium and 2 large , as shown in this picture ( from the aforementioned company website ) : <URL> If you are travelling with large suitcases you 'll need to either find a free large locker or try to cram the suitcase in a medium one . Note that being the only self-service luggage storage service in Porto , the lockers tend to be all occupied most of the time .
The contents of the main page in a passport is dictated by standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) , specifically the Machine Readable Travel Documents standard ( <URL> ) . This document states that all passport photos should meet the following requirements : Pose 1.1 . The photograph should be less than six months old . 1.2 . It should show a close up of the head and shoulders . 1.3 . The photograph should be taken so that an imaginary horizontal line between the centres of the eyes is parallel to the top edge of the picture . 1.4 . The face should be in sharp focus and clear with no blemishes such as ink marks , pen , pin , paper clip , staples , folds , dents , or creases . 1.5 . The photograph should show the subject facing square on and looking directly at the camera with a neutral expression and the mouth closed . 1.6 . The chin to crown ( crown is the position of the top of the head if there were no hair ) shall be 70 -80 % of the vertical height of the picture . 1.7 . The eyes must be open and there must be no hair obscuring them . 1.8 . If the subject wears glasses , the photograph must show the eyes clearly with no lights reflected in the glasses . The glasses shall not have tinted lenses . Avoid heavy frames if possible and ensure that the frames do not cover any part of the eyes . Sunglasses can not be worn or appear on the person 's head . 1.9 . Coverings , hair , headdress , hats , scarfs , head bands , bandanas or facial ornamentation which obscure the face , are not permitted ( except for religious or medical reasons . In all cases , the person 's full facial features from bottom of chin to top of forehead and both edges of the face must be clearly visible ) . 1.10 . The photograph must have a plain light coloured background . 1.11 . There must be no other people , chair back , or objects in the photograph . Lighting , Exposure , and Colour Balance 2.1 . The lighting must be uniform with no shadows or reflections on the face , eye-glasses or in the background . 2.2 . The subject 's eyes must not show red eye . 2.3 . The photograph must have appropriate brightness and contrast . 2.4 . Where the picture is in colour , the lighting , and photographic process must be colour balanced to render skin tones faithfully . Submission of Portrait to the Issuing Authority Where the portrait is supplied to the Issuing Authority in the form of a print , the photograph , whether produced using conventional photographic or digital techniques , should be on good or photo-quality paper . Compliance with International Standards 4.1 . The photograph shall comply with the appropriate definitions set out in ISO/IEC 1974 -- 5 . The last of the points above is probably the most important as far as " why " - <URL> defines standards for Biometric data interchange formats , with part 5 specifically being Face image data . According to the ISO/IEC 19794 documents : To enable many applications on variety of devices , including devices that have the limited resources required for data storage , and to improve face recognition accuracy , this part of ISO/IEC 19794 specifies not only a data format , but also scene constraints ( lighting , pose , expression , etc. ) , photographic properties ( positioning , camera focus , etc. ) , digital image attributes ( image resolution , image size , etc. ) .
The proposed change does n't affect you or your wife , and she wo n't need a visa . The <URL> allows citizens of certain countries to visit the US without getting a visa or any other form of authorization . It is n't what your wife has been using ; she can enter the US any time , because she already has a different form of authorization : a green card , which avoids any need for a visa . The VWP is unrelated to permanent residency , and I have n't heard of any proposed changes to the permanent resident program . Anyway , Iran is not one of the countries included in the VWP , which is another reason why your wife has n't been using it up until now , and why any changes to it would n't affect her .
<URL> Is the best place to get information on motorcycle overlanding . Answer I can give you is : it depends where you live . It 's easiest to get the carnet in your own country so you 're usually restricted by what 's available there . I can only speak for the UK , where I was able to get a carnet insurance for ~ # 1,300 for a # 2,000 motorcycle ( but the UK is notoriously expensive for carnets ) , though upon the safe return of the motorbike and carnet to the home country , I got a refund of about # 700 of that . You 'll have to contact the carnet issuing companies in your country for a definitive answer .
I went to Seoul in summer 2015 and I could use my Visa everywhere . I can not tell if there are some places which will reject your mastercard , most likely there will be but I 've stayed there for a month and I could pay and withdraw money without any issue . As far as I know , Koreans have plenty of credit cards and they use it on daily basis so you should not have trouble using yours . ;) I did not have my Mastercard so I could not try but most ATM were compatible with it . I did n't check for American Express since I do n't own an AE card . EDIT : see more details <URL> and <URL> EDIT2 : as said in one of the link , do n't forget to notify your bank that you 'll use your card abroad ... For security matter my bank was denying any operation from abroad , I had to tell them where I was and the dates of my travel . NB : I used a Visa credit card issued by French bank .
None is completely reliable in that part of the world . Bring plenty of patience and plan a good amount of time between bus arrivals and departures . The La Paz - Uyuni segment is the roughest . While you can do half ( Potosi-Uyuni ) on train which is more comfortable , it makes logistics more complicated . Train cancellations are common and so are bus ones but at least there are a lot more buses going back-and-forth . If you do not mind going back to La Paz , you can do a round-trip to Uyuni by plane which is what I would do having done the bus to Uyuni route 2 months ago . While I had booked a more spacious bus , a few hours before its departure I received a call saying it broke down and had to take the regular bus which transports more locals than tourists and makes more stops . This one was supposed to take 12 hours , instead of 10 for the tourist bus , but it actually tool 22 hours which include two flat tired , road-blocks , detours and taking the wrong route ! It wo n't surprise you that I flew back after that . Peru buses are clearly a level ahead of those in Bolivia with fewer delays and more space per person . As they are more touristy though , you get more thefts in Peru than Bolivia . Inside the bus is not much of a problem if you keep your things close but watch where your luggage is at stops . If you can not see it from where you are seated , exit at each stop and hop back on when the luggage compartment closes .
One option would be to bring cash with you , convert it to Iranian currency and then buy something called " Gift Card " from a bank . You can easily obtain them from most of the well-known banks without having an account . You can use these cards to buy stuff almost anywhere within the country . They are also password protected and only the owner can use them . In case you lose them or get them stolen , you can contact the issuing bank to block the missing card and get another one . This is just one of the ways that can help you avoid carrying money . There might be other ways too :) Update : A new card <URL> called Tourist Card : Bank Melli , Iran 's first national bank , plans to issue a debit card exclusively for foreign tourists visiting the country . Issued under the title ' Tourist Card ' , visitors can apply for the charge card at the Bank Melli branch of Imam Khomeini International Airport , said a report in Tehran Times . With all charges converted and billed in the local currency , the card limit will be set at $ 5,000 or $ 5,000 . The tourist card will be valid for the length of stay of the visitors and any remaining money in the card will be reimbursed , the report said . The card can be used at the issuing bank 's ATM 's across the country as well at points of sale ( POS ) and online shopping . The bank plans to issue the cards in more than four Iranian cities , which are yet to be determined , the report said . And <URL> the official website of Iran Melli Bank , which has fully introduced this new card : It is a card in Iranian Rial which is issued for tourists against foreign currencies received from them with designated expiry date and it can be used in whole Iranian banking system . A Tourist Card is given to clients with exclusive passwords . There are two passwords for each card . First password is to be used when the card is used to buy by POS and the second password is used for internet buying . Both passwords can be changed by the holder of the card . Specifications of Tourist Card : It can be used through whole Iranian banking system Cash can be withdrawn only in BMI ATMs . Funds can not be transferred to Tourist Card Cards can be used to buy through internet , their passwords can be changed and funds can be transferred from Tourist Card to other cards . The remaining cash in Tourist Cards can be converted to foreign currencies and paid to customers . The expiry date of Tourist Card will be the date when clients ' visas are expired . The limit of charging these cards in $ 5,000 Customers can be informed about the remaining balance of Tourist Cards through Bank Melli Iran 's website ( www.bmi.ir ) , all ATMs throughout the country and all POS systems . Customers can take billing statements and be informed about the breakdown of their Tourist Card transactions in BMI ATMs .
Oh now this is my question :) If you like parks , there are the ' tourist ' ones in town - Hyde , Regents , St James and so on . But take the tube down to Richmond and walk up the hill to Richmond Park . Firstly you 'll get a great walk along the Thames on the way up , and then you 're in the biggest open air space in London . Originally a hunting ground for King Henry the 8th , I believe , he built a wall and kicked the peasants out . Fortunately today anyone can go in , and there are still 2 herds of deer - 300ish fallow and 300ish red , plus squirrels , foxes and more . It 's beautiful , and the view from Richmond Park to St Paul 's is so special that it 's protected by law ! For clubs , um ... Clapham Common has a great number of bars and so on around it which wo n't get the tourist crowd , but you may get a lot of Kiwis and Aussies who live in the area . For a market , try Borough Market - it 's near the London Bridge tube station , Borough High Street exit , open from Thursday to Saturdays in the mornings . Lots of great food , a little expensive perhaps , but you can actually do well by eating the free samples ;) One way we found to really get ' local ' Londoners was to catch the long tubes to the end of the line - Cockfosters , for example , has a fantastic pub called the Cock and Dragon , and you 're practically guaranteed not to find tourists there ! Epping is similar , but you may experience the music-stopping-and-locals-staring feeling as you walk through the door of the pub . London is huge , and so cosmopolitan that it 's hard to even define what is a Londoner these days ! But it 's a great city and there 's lots to find and explore .
end question
start question
Is it really permitted for travellers to work while visiting Georgia on a tourist visa ?
Georgia 's Reforms Associates <URL> called FactCheck <URL> : Conclusion Our research has established that in Georgia certain professions have nationality restrictions due to national and public interests . In order to bring in a verdict , we must also take international experience into consideration . Both strict and lenient , there are certain restrictions and limitations in Europe , the US and CIS countries for granting a work permit to foreign citizens . There are , however , no such limitations in Georgia and any alien can start working in Georgia without any permission ( only a temporary residence permit is necessary after the visa has expired ) . Compared to the current situation , the initiated draft bill regulates the immigration policy of the country . Based upon the abovementioned , we conclude that the statement of Paata Kvizhinadze : " Any foreign citizen could work in our country without any restrictions or quotas . This practically never happens in Europe , the US or CIS countries , " is TRUE . Since the old law allowing for 360 days visas has been <URL> , it is highly likely that there are no employment restrictions for citizens of visa-on-arrival countries . The <URL> also fails to list any restrictions on people arriving to Georgia on tourist visas .
The Faroe Islands are <URL> ( albeit self-governing ) . <URL> , it 's legal to hitch in Denmark , apart from on motorways : Destination boards are recommended . For safety reasons , it is illegal to hitchhike on the expressways , so it is better to use the on ramps and service areas . When crossing by ferry , try to get into a car that already paid for the ticket . This is backed up in <URL> which states that it 's generally rare , but easy , legal and you 're not usually expected to pay for the ride .
To the best of my knowledge Cambodia Tourist Visas and eVisas are single entry only . But it is possible to transit in Siem Reap without entering the country , assuming you can have your bags checked through to Laos . Are you flying on the same airline or are you changing airlines ?
The <URL> " allows citizens of participating countries * to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of 90 days or less " . ( Ireland IS a participating country ) . Each traveller must have authorisation under <URL> . It costs US$ 14 , and the <URL> has all the information you would require . It takes up to 3 days to process , is valid for 2 years , and you need to have it approved before you leave for the US . It 's all done online . ( - and is fairly simple - I 've done it twice before , myself )
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
Speaking from experience ( 2 double-entry visas for me , and a few multi-entry visas for someone else ) , there 's definitely both an entry and an exit stamp for each entry . Of course , there can always be exceptions - I do n't think passport stamps are ever 100 % reliable - some border agents may not know all the rules , etc. . Some border crossings can be really strange - e.g. land border between Kyrgyzstan and China - it 's really easy to miss a stamp there . Did the Chinese consulate ask you for a scan of your previous Chinese visas or did they also ask for entry/exit stamps ? If it 's the former , chances are they 're just going to look up your information by the visa number in some database ( but I 'm just guessing here ) .
I 've been on Thailand in January/13 for about 2 weeks passing through Bangkok , Koh Samui , Krabi , Phi Phi , Kanchanaburi , etc. . In Bangkok was where I saw more freedom of natives in talking about sex with tourists . In everywhere was someone offering to me to go to any of theirs sexland places ( In Bangkok we can see an entire district with expertise in Sex Tourism including some bizarre things like Ping Pong show , etc ) . So , this subject is broadly talked in Thailand and I think this will not be a problem to you . I only think you will need to pay for it . There is a chance of them to charge you for an " Interview " about their job . A way to get this interview is to visit a sex house and search for one sex worker who looks sympathetic and allows you to interview her . I 'm sure her will not mind in spend her time talking with you . I hope this can be useful to you .
To add to @mouviciel 's answer , yes , Morocco and Iran do have an embassy presence in each others countries but here 's the catch : you can only apply for a Moroccan visa in a country you are n't a citizen of only if you 're a resident of that country . So in this case , your Iranian friend would need to be resident in Georgia to be able to apply for a visa in the embassy there ; otherwise , he needs to apply for a Moroccan visa back in Iran . I found this out when doing research for <URL> .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
Closing time of Phoenix Market City in Mumbai is 00:00 not 11:30 . Yes you will find plenty of shops open at 22:30 . There are movie shows that end after midnight and some shops stay open for that leaving crowd too . There are a few bars that stay open well after midnight . I was at the Irish bar until 00:30 with no signs of closing down and they were taking new orders as well . Source : I was there in December 2015 .
There is no such thing as a " tourist " Schengen visa . Indeed , you wo n't find any information about " categories " of short stay visas in the regulation because there are only three types of Schengen visas : short stay visas , airport transit visas ( which do not allow the holder to get out of the airport ) and limited territorial validity visa ( for special cases including some refugees or diplomats ; you wo n't get one without knowing ) . All regular short stay Schengen visas cover a range of different purposes , including attending conferences . On the other hand , lying on the application ( i.e. pretending you are going to do some tourism when you want to attend a conference ) is obviously not OK . But if you hold a multiple-entry visa and already used it for the trip you mentioned in the application , then it 's completely fine to use it for other purposes . Be aware that border guards can check that you fulfil the conditions of your visa at any time and therefore inquire about your income , purpose , etc. when crossing the border , even though you had to explain all this to get the visa in the first place . So it 's good to have documents to establish the purpose of your trip in case someone asks . See <URL> to know what those documents are in your case . See also <URL> <URL> or <URL> for detailed explanations of what you can and can not do with a Schengen visa in a range of related situations .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
Three approaches : choose an airline that has in-seat power . get a sheet battery - the one I have for my Windows laptop adds another 7 hours or so - that attaches to the laptop and does n't look external , so you can use it in place get an external battery and take a break for a little while to let it do its charging under your seat or somewhere the crew ca n't see it , then remove it and go back to working My old laptop used to trip the breakers on planes if I tried to both use it and charge it , so I 'd use it a while , close the lid , plug it in and set it aside while I ate or whatever , then pick it up and work again . And yes , I choose my work wisely . If I 'm rendering video then my 9 hours of battery life will disappear in an hour or two . Still I occasionally render video on planes anyway . External battery packs for Macs surely exist . <URL> and <URL> . It says 32 hours for MBA , and 8 for MBP . That should help . And in a pinch , you might even carry two :-)
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
Contrary to the popular opinion The City is not that big . So let 's lay out a few rules that will help your search : If you are going to stay in Manhattan there are very few places that have more then a 4 block walk to a subway that will take you almost anywhere you want to go , so drop a pin and there you will stay ( just do n't stay in the parks police does n't particularly like that :) ) . Areas of Brooklyn and Queens as well as some places in the Bronx also offer great views and ease of access to the city , such as Williamsburg , Brooklyn Heights have great views of east and south sides of Manhattan as well as access to the Subway so 15-20 minutes will get you to practically every place of interest in Manhattan . Consider looking in Hoboken or downtown Jersey City . These can be slightly on the expensive side but have access to PATH which runs 24 hours and buses that get you in and out of Manhattan really quickly ( having lived in Jersey City time to commute to Times Square was less then for some Brooklynites ) . Sights . Considering what you have listed I would assume you wanted to see Grand Central Terminal rather then Penn Station because the original Penn Station is gone . Hotels . Hotels could get expensive in New York City and around Christmas and New Years you might have to pay arm , leg , and a few other body parts for a room . If you are looking to stay a week you might look at <URL> to see if you can rent an apartment . One thing though is there are a few Supermarkets around so if you decide to cook locate those first . But in all enjoy the city .
Yes you can , a few years ago Saudi Arabia began to allow this and now people on Umrah/Hajj visas can visit any place in Saudi Arabia and it is not limited to Makkah and Madinah only as it was before . Just make sure to carry your Hajj/Umrah visa with you .
The official page is the <URL> page . Working Holiday visa holders from the UK are an exception to the usual rules , where you are able to extend your total stay to 23 months ( the normal maximum for visitors from most other countries is 12 months without the ability to extend ) . The only restrictions on employment are : You must not take up permanent employment ( unless you apply for and are granted an ordinary work visa while you 're here ) . You must not work for a period exceeding 12 months . You can enrol in one or more courses of training or study of up to six months ' duration in total during your visit . The second point means that you can not work for the same employer for a time greater than 12 months . Working Holiday schemes for visitors from other countries may have different restrictions . For example , visitors from <URL> can not work for the same employer for more than three months . These restrictions change from time to time , and when you get a visa it should state on the visa itself what your restrictions actually are .
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
The region has a very long tradition of international trade , and it 's a cornerstone of the economy . Taxes and tariffs are low , so many things are indeed cheaper . Additionally , the sheer number of shopping opportunities is an attraction in itself . Dubai has one of the world 's <URL> ( among 50 others ) , one of the <URL> , and even a special <URL> .
I think you should not have any problem roaming around India on a valid business visa . Most places in India welcome foreigners and very rarely you will be stopped and asked for valid visa . if you carry your passport and visa copies along with you at all times - you should be fine .
end question
start question
What first aid material and medicines are absolutely essential when traveling ?
Let me suggest a rule I learned from packing for camping that I think applies just as well to packing for business or leisure travel . It seems a little counter intuitive at first . Do n't bring things you need for emergencies . Bring what you need for trivial little annoyances . From a camping point of view , this means treatments for sunburn , bug bites , blisters , and " tummy troubles . " I do n't bring slings or splints or giant pads of gauze . If we need those [ and we never have ] , we can use shirts and sticks and towels . People who are grumpy , in pain , or distracted by trivial stuff make bad decisions , trip and fall , and generally are at risk of needing emergency treatment . By treating the petty stuff we all stay healthy , and we enjoy the wilderness trip we 've worked so hard for . Similarly , when I travel within civilization I bring common-or-garden painkillers ( what you would take for a headache sitting at your desk , no prescription needed and no regulation by other countries ) , bandaids ( for blisters or small cuts ) , sunburn cream if I 'm going somewhere sunny , antacids , and other " minor " and " trivial " stuff . If you are injured or fall really ill , you 're going to get medical treatment in that country . Unless you 're climbing Everest , they 'll have what they need to deal with your appendicitis or whatnot . What you need to bring is the familiar and comfortable treatments ( that you already know how to use ) for the kind of petty stuff that might keep you from enjoying your trip . I enjoyed the adventure of working out how to buy hair conditioner in Berlin , but it would have been much less fun to work out how to buy something in a foreign language when I was suffering from whatever symptoms needed to be treated by it ! By treating the petty stuff I can relax and enjoy the wonderful place I 've come to , without being dragged down by a small pain or itch or not wanting to walk far or to go in the sun . That 's the real purpose of bringing the medications .
My wife and I have a travel wallet/organiser that we take on all trips . It 's a pretty dorky thing , but very handy . It 's made of nylon material , and is large enough so a sheet of A4 folded into thirds will fit inside , has a zipper down three sides and contains several pockets . It 's made by Eagle Creek and is similar to <URL> . We 've had it ten years and it 's been on countless trips and is still in great condition . In it we pack : Passports Printouts of flight tickets/boarding passes/hotel reservations and directions , stacked in the order in which they 'll be used on the trip Immunisation certificates Travel insurance documents Frequent flyer cards Scuba diving certification cards ( if we 're off on a diving trip ) About a third of any currency we 're taking on the trip ( the other two thirds divided between my wallet and my wife 's purse . The travel wallet typically lives in my carry-on luggage during a trip . For some trips , I 'll pack a separate set of printouts ( sealed in a large envelope ) in hold luggage . As an additional backup , any relevant electronic documents are in a OneDrive/Dropbox folder and I will have synchronised the documents to my phone before leaving ( in case I need them in a location where I have no phone reception ) . As the trip progresses , I 'll remove printouts from the wallet as they become redundant and stash them elsewhere in my luggage , ready to be <URL> . This may sound like a lot of pre-trip hassle and organisation , but it means that when we 're away we can get on with relaxing and enjoying things ! Below are a few photos of the travel wallet . It also has space for a pen - very handy when filling out landing cards and luggage tags ! :-) <URL> <URL> <URL>
Unfortunately " No need for Japan resident card " and " Japan phone number " ( along with voice and SMS ) are not compatible . Non-residents are n't able to buy voice SIMs . B-Mobile appears to be the best option in most cases . There 's some info in English at <URL> that looks to be up to date . There are no high-speed unlimited options but the Chamelon SIM is available in LTE and goes up to 5gb/month . Nano SIMs only appear to be available on the visitor plans . Since you wo n't have voice , Wimax is another option . It 'll require carrying another device , but their current Wifi router is about the same size as a stack of 6 credit cards . Data is unlimited and speed is claimed to be up to 40mbit . Buying the router probably makes this less economical than a data SIM for less than 12 months .
Generally , new and longer-distance trains will , older suburban ones wo n't . Quite a few have them in first class , but not in standard . CrossCountry Voyager trains have power available in most seats , and a nice seating plan : <URL> East Midland have power on their ' Meridian ' trains but not their HSTs - <URL> South West Trains do n't generally - it appears that some of their carriages do ( <URL> ) , but it 's not publicised ... Virgin West Coast Super Voyager have power at all seats . Pendolino First Class have power at all seats . Pendolino Standard Class have power at seats with tables . <URL> Virgin East Coast Seats with tables have power ( all first class seats have tables ) <URL>
This is going to vary strongly from carrier to carrier because as far as I can tell what really matters is how long it 's been since the interiors were refurbished ( a process airlines do one plane model at a time ) and whether the route is considered important by the airline . Sure , you can make some overall opinions about narrowbody ( one aisle ) vs widebody ( two aisles ) but not much else . Power , inflight entertainment , and even just the upholstery are all going to matter as much as layout . If I was travelling alone on AirCanada , I would go with the 330 because two of the three banks of rows have no " middle seat " . If I was travelling as a family of three , that same difference would cause me to reject the 330 . I guess maybe a family of four would prefer the 330 since you could get two rows of two and have two windows and a little family cluster . However I 'm only 5 ' 4 " and my shortness is all in my legs , so a 31 " pitch does n't scare me . It might be more of an issue for you .
A Geiger Counter measures the current radiation level . It can really only tell you " It 's safe here " , " do n't stay here too long " or " get out of here , NOW ! " . If you 're going to stay in an area where the length of your stay could expose you to a dangerous total amount of radiation , you need a <URL> ( The Wikipedia page links to a list that compares specific models ) . But any area where you could receive a dangerous amount of radiation over the course of as little as 8 hours is almost certainly not accessible to the public .
This is a good question . If you have 5 days and you travel via Geneva there is an interesting option , which provides a good balance between time spent in trains , cities and mountains . This options involves using the scenic <URL> between Montreux and Luzern . The nice point about this trip is that it can be done at any time of the year . The trains are running all year round . And the mountains are always nice ! The trip runs as follows : Paris - Geneva - Lausanne - Montreux - Zweisimmen - Interlaken - Luzern - Zürich . Below you find a proposal of how to allocate the 5 days . The travel times are approximate . Use the <URL> to find out the precise information . Day 1 : Travel from Paris to Geneva ( 3 hours ) in the morning . Visit Geneva and continue to Lausanne ( 40 minutes ) in the evening . Spend the night in Lausanne . Day 2 : Spend a day and a night in Lausanne . Day 3 : Travel by train to Montreux ( 20 minutes ) and take there the train to Zweisimmen ( 2 hours ) and from there a train to Interlaken ( 90 minutes ) . You can spend the night in Interlaken or in Grindelwald or Wengen . The latter are two nice villages in the surroundings . It 's a matter of taste ( and possibly of budget ) . Day 4 : Spend a day in the mountains and visit the <URL> . Stay overnight in Interlaken , Grindelwald or Wengen . Day 5 : Travel to Luzern ( 2 hours from Interlaken ) , in the morning . Visit Luzern . When you are done , continue to Zürich ( 45 minutes ) . Of course , the 5 days can be allocated a bit differently , according to your gusto .
For safety , consider the aircraft age and the company operating the flights . A larger , well established company is less likely to skimp on maintenance and crew . A newer plane costs more , and is probably safer . Germany has tighter aviation safety standards than Russia .
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
East Coast Park is a nice place for camping especially in Singapore . The first thing is that you 'll need to get a camping permit , which you can <URL> or at AXS self-service machines . You will only be able to do this if you have permanent residence or a long-term visa for Singapore as the permit requires you to enter an IC number or FIN ( and AFAIK , AXS machines only accept NETS payments for this particular transaction ) . You are n't allowed to have open fires , but there are many places in campsites that hire out BBQ pits for cooking for which again you can <URL> . Bringing your own BBQ pits is n't allowed unless on specific occasions ( public holidays , etc ) so that 's not an option . <URL> ( and to be honest , information does n't get more comprehensive than that ) . There is n't a lot you 'll be left wanting for that can not be solved by a quick trip to a convenience store , so camping at ECP is easy that way . Cycling is a one of the major activities to do when camping at ECP and the trails are fairly easy to attempt , can be done as a family activity I would say . You rent cycles for a day at fairly reasonable prices ( S$ 6-12 ) . <URL> is another place to consider camping ; feels a bit more secluded as it 's not on the mainland , and if you 're into off-road biking there are some good trails there . Camping at Pulau Ubin does not require a permit .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
First of all , Saudi is a normal working environment . You can say it is different but surely it is normal :) Do not believe CNN or any western media regarding Saudi . They simply exaggerate things to the maximum which will give a bad first impression that will be stuck for a long time . People are touchy . Saudi men do shake hands all the time and it is considered disrespectful not to shake hands . Also , men do kiss cheeks ( Italian style ) . But most people will avoid that with foreigners . People greet each other all the time by saying Salam Alaykum which means " peace upon you " . Try to use this as often as you can ; it will give a good impression to people and make things easier . People do not sleep early . Most people sleep after midnight . Most shops close around 11:00 or 12:00 at night ! Restaurants are open till 2:00 A.M. Fast food restaurants and Walmart-style malls are open 24 hours . You will be surprised that people go out at night more than morning . I think this is due to the hot weather . Avoid talking to ladies or staring at them unless they start talking to you . It is a cultural thing . People drive like crazy . So be careful whether you are driving or a pedestrian . Saudis have problems with queues so do not be surprised . Sometimes this is for your own good ;) Gasoline is cheaper than water . You can fill a big car for not more than 10 USD . English is not a problem . Most people do understand some English . All shops are closed at prayer times . Muslims have 5 prayers a day . When the prayer starts all shops will be closed , and most people will go to mosques to pray . Saudis love to talk about football , cars and religion . So expect people to ask you in the middle of any conversation , " What 's your religion ? " . Kabsah is the national dish here . So if you get invited you may see a large grilled lamb in the middle of a huge plate filled with rice . Saudis are generous -- sometimes to an extreme . You often see people fight next to the cashiers about who will pay . Everyone wants to be the one who pays !! If you go out with a Saudi it will be a shame if you pay . If you are the guest , then he has to pay ! So let him pay ! If the police stop you , you are the one who should get out of the car and go to them ! it is ok if you wait in your car but that will take longer . Police rarely stop foreigners though . Most taxis do not use a meter . They are cheap in general . Just remember prices vary from 10 Riyals ( 2.6 USD ) to 30 Riyals ( 8 USD ) so if they ask for more , wait for another taxi . There are lots of sea activities here -- boats , lots of sun and scuba diving . All restaurants have family and ladies section and single men section . So never enter the family section when you are alone ! unless you are with a lady . Saudi Arabia is a very safe place . You can go out any time with no problems at all . Due to the location of Jeddah ( next to sea ) and to the mixture of people from different places in it , Jeddah is totally different than the rest of Saudi . People in Jeddah tend to be less conservative . BTW , I live in Saudi Arabia ( Jeddah ) , and I tried to be fair and mention both good and bad things . Please remember , being different is not a bad thing . Not all cultures are identical otherwise there would not be cultures !
If you are used to travelling by yourself , you will be fine . In subways and trains they usually make announcements in English as well as Japanese . At the very least for stations where tourists would want to get off , but often for all stations . If you go to the information counter or the guy sitting next to the ticket gates in the train stations you can get subway and train maps with English text . Staff is usually very friendly everywhere , and they will try to explain in English , even if that takes some time . Buses can be Japanese only , but they are seldom needed to reach tourist attractions ( depends a bit on where you want to go ) , and if you talk to the driver ( try not to be there at rush hour ) and tell them you want to get off at soandso and sit near them , they will usually get you to the right place . It is also useful to visit tourist offices , the people there usually have English maps and flyers and can tell you how to get to places . They are usually in every bigger train station . If you have to ask someone on the street , you should go for someone between 25 and 40 who does n't look too busy . Their English might not be perfect , but they will almost definitely try to help you and send you in the right direction . If you give me a list of where exactly you want to go , I can probably give a more detailed assessment . Of course , a guided tour might enable you to see more things , but you will probably really only see them . Out of the bus , photo , back into the bus . But if you are the kind of person that likes to look at stuff at their own pace , you are definitely better off going by yourself . I do n't know if you like that kind of thing , but backpacker 's hostels usually have very talkative English speaking staff who will give you lots and lots of directions and recommendations if you ask .
If you have some specific plan and are not moving constantly , consider booking specific trains directly . This will definitely be cheaper than renting a car for several weeks and will probably be cheaper than an Eurail pass as well . You can read more about elsewhere on this site or on <URL> but since many trains have restrictions for Eurail pass holders , they do n't provide as much flexibility as they used to , especially in France . An important factor is whether you are traveling alone or not . With a group , traveling by car can be cheaper but if you are alone it 's likely to be much more expensive . Depending on where you come from , you might find petrol to be quite expensive ( less than in the UK or the Netherlands , though ) and you have to remember that most motorways are toll roads ( crossing France East-West will cost you about 60 $ toll , that 's excluding petrol and any other cost for the car ) . If you need to cover long distances ( say go from Paris to the South of France ) , trains are also likely to be faster and more comfortable so the car 's main advantage is really flexibility . Regarding snow , I do n't think it should be a big concern , certainly for Normandy or most of the South and West of France . Unfortunately , I think most rental cars will not be fitted with winter tires so if you are unlucky and there are a couple of snowy days in December , the best solution would be to " sit them out " wherever you are and just delay the next step of your trip for a day or two . Driving with tire chains is only ever necessary in mountainous area when there is a layer of snow on the road , which is almost never the case for long on main roads ( besides , you ca n't drive fast with tire chains so it 's a last resort to reach some isolated places , not something you would realistically do on a long trip ) . If anything , ice or " freezing rain " is more often a problem than snow . Finally , Normandy as a whole is n't a rural area at all . There are relatively large cities with heavy industry and decent connections to Paris by train . At the same time , if you want to visit the rural or coastal parts of Normandy , a car would certainly be useful and give you a lot more flexibility .
There are great many options along the various highways and byways in the US for lodging , though if you are looking for B&amp;B s you would have to check ahead because they are usually small and may be booked . When travelling on the interstates and other divided highways you would see signs like : This one is to indicate that at exit 14B there is a <URL> . Of course you could see a sign which will leave you wondering : But these are rare . Mostly along the roads you will find inexpensive chains like : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and a few others . Most of these are quite clean and safe to stay at though <URL> . One thing I would suggest is when you are travelling with kids is to actually plan out your route . For example , last year I went to a <URL> region in the 2nd week of July and there was no hotels/motels/B &amp; Bs to be had ( except for obscene amounts of money ) because of the local festival so check for those first and if possible make reservations ahead of time .
<URL> / transfer is simply opposite to public transportation , unlike buses for example where it is public to anyone , private transport means having your private non-shared transportation method like renting a car , motorbike , taxi or private jet :)
I have traveled extensively throughout Argentina , and I would have to say that the siesta ( which does exist in some places ) has never affected anything I wanted to do there . Within Buenos Aires , many smaller shops are closed for a siesta , but then many are not , and large ones certainly are not . Outside of Buenos Aires , the siesta may become a factor , but probably not . It depends on what you are trying to accomplish . For me , when outside of BA , I have always been out and about seeing the sights or exploring town or experiencing the nature during those hours . Obviously transport continues as usual , though in cities you may have a slightly harder time finding a taxi . Longer-haul transport you 'll obviously want to buy tickets for in advance anyway . When it comes to restaurants , most do indeed close in the middle of the day for several hours , but this is more for the changeover from lunch to dinner service . I do n't think this happens until 3 or 4 PM though . Perhaps restaurateurs take a slightly later siesta as some do n't reopen till much later . Many Argentinians seem to have dinner incredibly late . I have seen families with young children sitting down to eat steak dinners at 11:00 PM . But I digress . In sum : it may be a minor factor . But as long as you arrange anything that needs to be arranged in advance , you will be fine . Personally , it has not been an issue for me as much as it has been in , for example , parts of Spain .
You are better off asking a doctor this . A child often needs medication labelled for children and it 's important you do not give him an adult dosage . Does your child have the flu ? Or are you trying to pack medication ' just in case ' ? If he has a runny nose I would recommend a simple salt based nose spray , if he has no complications at all and you are just trying to prepare , do n't bother .
end question
start question
How can I know of strikes that affect public transport in Italy ?
I recommend checking out the below links . Hopefully these will tell you what you need to know . Link 1 : <URL> You will need to translate the page , if you are in Google Chrome , you will be automatically prompted to do so . If not , go to google translate website and paste in the url of link 1 . If you are looking for a particular date when there may be strikes , your best bet would be to go to the below address . <URL> Here , you are able to search based on details you enter including date , location , sector etc. . All fields are optional . Again , translate the page first . The sector you are likely interest in is " trasporto ferroviario " for trains and " Trasporto Pubblico Locale " for local public transport . In the list of strikes , clicking the symbol on the right will give you more details on the strike , especially the intended duration . If you do not know any of the date , location or sector , link 1 will show you strikes in columns - the date , the location , the sector , details and location . Link 2 : <URL> In short , Itallians plan their strikes in advance . Details of when strikes are scheduled can be found on link 1 . If there is a specific service you are wanting to check , please comment it below . In response to your bonus question , " If your train is providing local transport during essential services for the peak times ( from 06:00 to 09:00 and from 18:00 to 21:00 Mon-Sat ) these will be are guaranteed . Some long-distance trains are also guaranteed on all days including holidays . " " Essential services mean that you will be transported to your destination somehow asap , just not nessecarily on the same train as originally booked . "
Picking a random date in the future , <URL> shows that flying to Larnaca and then going by airport shuttle is probably the cheapest option in terms of paying . However , if you 're searching elsewhere for flights , check out both Larnaca and Ercan as options , and flying out of both CDG and ORY in Paris , as they seem to produce quite different prices . Other than that , you 're down to hitching or cycling - driving and taking a ferry looks extremely exorbitant !
Re Minimimising weight of checked in " suitcase " : In probably everywhere I 've been you can buy large strong cheap ( choose any 3 ) polypropylene ( I think ) bags which fold flat with a very small volume , are strong enough to resist airline handling and which cost very little ( see photo below . They have a zip top , come usually in pastel stripes or tacky tartan or a generally ikky colour . I and my family use these as what I term " Ocean Jumping Bags " . They are light enough and compact enough that that can be folded up and kept until the next ocean-hop arrives - but also cheap enough and available enough that they can be discarded and replaced when required . In the absence of these life savers a piece of plastic tarpaulin plus parcel tape would be almost as useful , but lacks the zip and more easily sealed nature of the bag . These bags can either be packed with all checked-in material and no other bag , or smaller bags &amp; boxes and loose material can be placed in them . They are usually of larger volume than required and , rather than committing a large floppy bag to the baggage handlers ' tender care , I usually fold them into a compact bundle and then wrap them in parcel tape . The handles are sewn on and will tear off without much effort , but the actual bags are awesome strong . As the bags offer little or no protection against impact I put more delicate material in the middle wrapped around with clothes ( and sometimes extra packing if required ) and / or with rigid less breakable objects and then wrap with tape . Such an arrangement has never been torn open in transit when I 've used it , and would probably survive any conceivable treatment it would receive OCEAN JUMPING BAGS Three samples - various sizes . The largest is 700mm square by 250mm thick and weighs 210 grams ( 7 ounces ) and 120 + litres capacity and cost about $ US5 retail late at night ( In Australia , but relatively cheap anywhere ) . Add a bit more weight for tape if desired . Middle can be thicker if desired just by packing more in there . Coke box for sizing . Tasteful editing to meet domestic censor 's requirements . That bag has more volume ( 120 litres + ) than the all except the very largest suitcase you 'll be liable to find . ( The large bag was bought in Australia and brought two backpacks back to NZ . The medium one was bought somewhere in Asia and brought now unknown sundries to NZ . ) <URL> Added October 2015 : I just visited Australia for two weeks . On the return flight I ended up on a China-Airlines flight . Reading the fine print showed the checked baggage allowance was 20 kg ( unlike the now usual 23 kg ) and they specifically said that bags combined together either by taping/wrapping or with several bags inside a large outer bag were unacceptable - the only time I 've ever seen either of those stipulations . In the event - at checkin we were told that the checked allowance was 25 kg and while the person on the counter was aware of the " not taped together " requirement it was clear that it WOULD have been acceptable if done well - they appeared to be trying to avoid a multi part mess thrown together badly so that it may come apart en route Given hjow baggage handlers sometimes throw bags around extremely roughly ( based on numerous reports and my personal observations on a number of occasions ) this seems a reasonable requirement .
Unfortunately , my flight was very late , so I did n't actually arrive at Nice airport until just before 1am . The first thing to note is that the <URL> is very prompt about leaving , and at 30 seconds past 1am you 'll see its rear lights disappearing off into the distance ... The bus stop for the <URL> is not well signposted from the airport , and the route is a bit complicated by various carparks and roads that do n't seem to show properly on maps . Do n't expect to be able to find it very quickly your first time trying ! However , it is more frequent than the N100 , so may work better . Generally though , the bus service is pretty good in the day and early evening , and not too bad in the late evening , it 's just around midnight when things start to get hard , and you 'll probably need a delayed late flight ( like mine ... ) before you 'll end up with issues . At 1am , there was a huge line of taxis available at the airport ready to whisk people into town . When I returned at 1:20 ( having given up trying to find the N4 bus stop in the dark ) , there was a short wait for a taxi to arrive . At that time of night , taxis are a flat rate of $ 35 to the centre of Nice . I believe there are different flat rate prices for other areas . ( <URL> has a link to a slightly outdated price list ) Oh , and one thing to note for coming back from Nice to the airport - at the moment ( 2013 ) there 's lots of work going on around the station , and Place Massena . Lots of bus stops have been temporarily moved , but there are maps around which show the new locations . The <URL> ( airport < - > station ) and <URL> ( airport < - > city by coast , runs later ) are both very good and worth getting , but allow a bit of extra time to find the stops !
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
Cagnes-sur-Mer has a railway station , with frequent trains from Nice ( generally every half hour ) . Trains take about 15 minutes , and you just buy the ticket at the station on departure . Depending on where you are in Nice <URL> might be useful too . The local bus company has its website here : <URL> ( Press the British flag for English ) . Generally speaking : Getting there by public transport is easy and cheap . Doing it as a day trip perfectly feasible . Haut de Cagnes is about 1km from the train station . If you really do n't want to climb , you can walk to the town center ( square Bourdet , also a stop on bus 94 ) and take <URL> uphill .
The cheapest solution I 've been able to find was the <URL> ( Italian only , sorry ) which is a nice camping not so far from downtown Mantova . It 's actually a 15 mins walking from almost every place in Mantova with an event associated to the festival . The camping is provided with plenty of space to plant your tent , a common area where you can have your meals and recharge your phone/laptop/whatever batteries and toilets and showers with hot water . The cost for one night is 5 $ , 15 $ if you plan to stay all the 5 days the festival last . Parking the car is free of charge .
Only the March 29th and the April 1st are bank holidays in Spain . Between them there is a weekend that may be affected . Also the March 28th is bank holiday in some regions . There are not less transports in buses and trains , really there are more than a normal day , but there is more people trying to take it . In my experience , you should book your long distance transport one week before or you will have problems these days ( and maybe the 3-4 days previous and the 3-4 days next ) . Anyway , Andalucia will be the most affected region . About the Morocco ferries , the same applies . You can check the timetables and <URL> .
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
They do n't . The US does not know how many people have overstayed their visas . This implies that in any individual case , the US ca n't be sure whether a person has complied with visa terms . As others have mentioned , the US tracks exits by gathering data from the airlines and other carriers . However , because the US does n't have exit controls , the system can easily be defeated . See , for example , the New York Times article <URL> . A visitor to the US could fool the system by checking in for an international flight ( for example , to London ) and then swapping boarding passes with someone on a domestic flight ( for example , to Chicago ) . The visitor then flies to Chicago , and the confederate flies to London . The US government believes that the vistor has left the country , but in fact , the visitor is in Chicago .
The website I prefer for UK train timetables is <URL> . One of it 's handy features is being able to look up the last train of the day , for example <URL> . As Roflcoptr pointed out , the last weekday train at the moment is the 22:35 , which gets you into Cambridge at 01:22 ( via a cross London transfer to Kings Cross ) . You might just be able to get away with the 22:50 from Gatwick , if you have n't got too much luggage . The 22:50 gets into London Victoria at 23:20 , which gives you 40 minutes to get down to the tube , wait for a tube , travel 5 stops , and get up to the station . Fine if there are no problems and you 're not too bad for luggage , but ca n't be guaranteed ... Otherwise , it 's a National Express coach to London , then change onto a different National Express coach to Cambridge . The website for looking up times and prices is <URL> . Does n't look good though , leaving Gatwick at 23:40 today wo n't get you to Cambridge until about 5am ...
As Andra said , RER B ( 5stations ) + Metro ( 3Stations ) will be way faster than Ligne 4 all the way down . The thing is the interconnection Line 4 to the train can take you up to 10 minutes , moreover if you have lugages with you . But taking the line 6 from Denfert-Rochereau to Montpartnasse will save you this time , trains are at the first exit . Summary Gare Du Nord - > RER B - > Denfert Rochereau - > Line 6 - > Montparnasse Bienvenue Enjoy your trip and welcome in France :)
I recommend checking out the below links . Hopefully these will tell you what you need to know . Link 1 : <URL> You will need to translate the page , if you are in Google Chrome , you will be automatically prompted to do so . If not , go to google translate website and paste in the url of link 1 . If you are looking for a particular date when there may be strikes , your best bet would be to go to the below address . <URL> Here , you are able to search based on details you enter including date , location , sector etc. . All fields are optional . Again , translate the page first . The sector you are likely interest in is " trasporto ferroviario " for trains and " Trasporto Pubblico Locale " for local public transport . In the list of strikes , clicking the symbol on the right will give you more details on the strike , especially the intended duration . If you do not know any of the date , location or sector , link 1 will show you strikes in columns - the date , the location , the sector , details and location . Link 2 : <URL> In short , Itallians plan their strikes in advance . Details of when strikes are scheduled can be found on link 1 . If there is a specific service you are wanting to check , please comment it below . In response to your bonus question , " If your train is providing local transport during essential services for the peak times ( from 06:00 to 09:00 and from 18:00 to 21:00 Mon-Sat ) these will be are guaranteed . Some long-distance trains are also guaranteed on all days including holidays . " " Essential services mean that you will be transported to your destination somehow asap , just not nessecarily on the same train as originally booked . "
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
Enter a bar or supermarket and ask if they can change your 10 $ bill into 1 $ / 2 $ coins for the parking . Repeat again in some other place . Probably they will stare badly at you . You 're not obliged to consume or buy anything . Be warned that some cashiers may refuse your request . This is a common behaviour even for italians . <URL> reports that parking meter accept " bancomat " ( debit card ) . An alternative would be to buy a pre-paid Verona Park coupon .
OK , I can answer a good part of this . From Europe , you can get into Russia fairly simply with a visa - tourist visa is for 1 month max , however , which is a bit limiting ( maybe not for you , but it was for me ) . From there I went south and into Kazakhstan , across Uzbekistan , into Tajikistan . Afterwards I continued north - Kyrgyzstan , Kazakhstan , back into Russia and across to Mongolia . All of this was done with public transport - trains are great in Russia , are OK in Kazakhstan if you can get on one , iffy in Uzbekistan when they 're running and mostly non-existent in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan ( although China wants to connect the one track in Kyrgyzstan with the Chinese rail system ) . Most of the travel was on trains in Russia , and then shared taxis , minibuses , walking and 4WD taxis in the other ' stans . ' What is safe ' is always subjective - I could argue that nowhere is safe , or that anywhere is safe . However , follow the usual safety tips , and keep EVERY SINGLE PIECE OF DOCUMENTATION for unscrupulous border guards , security guards , dodgy police and militia who will often look for a way to get some cash off you . See <URL> for some more information on that fun aspect of travelling in the area . From Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan there are ways out into China , so you could do that , and then travel south . However , I did all this in the heat of summer . There will be some road closures especially at altitude in Tajikistan over winter . Trains should still get you to China via Kazakhstan if you so wanted ( Urumqi seems to be the place to aim for in China ) . I 'd personally wait until warmer months if possible , having flown over the area as late as April and still been amazed at the gigantic frozen lakes in Kazakhstan !
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
I ca n't tell you why you get no results with a Google transit search , but I can tell you that you wo n't find anything useful searching the OC Transpo web site unless you already know exactly where you 're going , and it wo n't show you what you need to know anyway since OC Transpo does n't really go into Gatineau . So , here 's the kind of so-so news . There are buses which reach the southermost edges of the park boundaries , but they do not go into or around the park , and do not reach as far as the visitor centre or many of the places within the park you might want to go . You 'll have a bit of a hike ahead of you . Fortunately there are plenty of hiking trails ... So , <URL> routes 35 and 48 reach the southeast and southwest boundaries of the park respectively , and you can get either of these in downtown Ottawa . They enter Wellington Street at the Portage Bridge and travel to their last Ottawa stop at Rideaux and Cumberland , before returning to Gatineau via King Edward Avenue . The <URL> shows a few other routes which overlap those at some points , in case those might also be useful to you . ( For instance , routes 35 and 48 only run Monday-Friday , and you may want to find a weekend bus . ) Cash fare is $ 3.90 , and some discounts are available .
This should not be an issue in big stations . Usually they have an international ticket desk . Though my experience does n't include Germany , I was able to buy tickets for foreign trains in France ( for Italian , Spanish and Belgian trains ) , in the Czech Republic ( for Swedish trains ) , in Sweden ( for German and Italian trains ) , and probably others that I do n't remember .
You are correct that most people travel by car . The main roads are excellent and signage is impeccable . The best I 've seen anywhere ! There are even maps along the road every few hundred kilometers . The other main form of transportation are buses . Within a city , they are easy to take and there is also an extensive network of bus routes . Most , if not all , are available from June to August . The central station in Reykjavik is very well connect but as you go to most other cities , you basically encounter buses going in 2 or 3 directions at most . It 's hard to get lost ! The main issue if with timing , inter-city buses have fixed schedules which are not that frequent . I recall 1 to 4 times daily , depending on the popularity of the route . The tourist-oriented options do a circuit which lets you see more than one site in a day without having to time the buses yourself . When you consider timing , your schedule not only gets dictated by bus timetables but you also arrive and leave exactly at the same time as everyone else . You lose the sense desolation and immersion with nature is lessened as the hordes of people coming out of buses are large and noisy . You can bridge some gaps in the bus network with domestic flights and even ferries . Usually short-cut between fjords . These are certainly not cheap and neither are car rentals by the way . I met a few people who brought their own car from Denmark since there is a thrice-weekly ferry which lands on the east side of Iceland . One of them basically drove from Italy in order to have is own car there .
end question
start question
Is it rude to talk on a mobile phone for the whole journey , when travelling alone in a London black taxi ?
I 've been in a similar situation many times when travelling during business hours to/from meetings - or , often , when going to the airport - where I 've had to jump in on conference calls where I knew it would be for the duration of the ride . I usually excuse myself before the call , letting them know that I 'm going to be on a call ( even if I 'm not talking ) . That 's usually okay with most black cab drivers : it helps them turn down the radio , etc for instance . Black cabs are usually partitioned anyway to separate the driver and the passenger ( s ) so it 's not that uncomfortable . ( If you 're taking a ride from Uber on the other hand I 'm usually more conscious of it since drivers rate passengers as well . I do the same thing by letting the driver know that I 'll be on a call . )
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
Yes you 'll have to pay for your bike spot , but only if your trip includes a TGV segment . The map you 're showing is for intercités which is another type of train and does not seem to run the route you want . If you search on the SNCF <URL> with your itinerary you 'll see you 're allowed a free spot for the bike on the segment from Saint-Malo to Rennes , but you 'll have to pay on the TGV from Rennes to Quimper . If you 're taking the TGV you need to reserve a spot for your bike , the reservation costs 10 Euros . There 's another , slightly longer trip , that does n't take the TGV where you 'll have a free spot all the way to Quimper ( as long as you 're on a TER ) . While travelling on a TER you do n't need to reserve a spot for your bike , but you can tick the " Travelling with a bike " while reserving your <URL> . Il est possible de réserver votre billet et voyager avec votre vélo en cochant la case " je voyage avec mon vélo " . [ ... ] L'embarquement du vélo non démonté est gratuit sur les TER et certains INTERCITÉS sans réservation obligatoire . Cet embarquement est alors autorisé dans la limite des places disponibles . <URL>
Generally speaking German IC and ICE are somewhat comparable to Dutch IC in that they do not stop at every station along the way . Their comfort level is higher ( often with a bar/restaurant and always the possibility to reserve a seat ) which make them feel more luxurious than Dutch trains but they are not really " exclusive " . Like TGV in France , ICE are in fact very common , gradually replacing IC on many lines so planning around them is difficult . Practicality of regional trains to cover long distances is going to depend on the precise time and destination . As an example , a quick search on bahn.de shows that Hengelo to Stettin is about 11 hours with 5 to 7 changes . You can reach the same destination in less than 8 hours , with two changes using the Amsterdam-Berlin direct train . If you travel alone and are able to book in advance , the price difference is not big : 39 $ to Berlin from any station in the Netherlands plus 10 $ for the Berlin-Stettin-Ticket , which works out to 8 $ more than the schönes Wochende Ticket . Following the same idea , you can also cross the Dutch border with a regional train or by some other means and book a Europa-Spezial ticket from the first German train station to Poland ( <URL> ) , also for 39 $ . You do n't even need to stop near the border , from Berlin you can get a connection all the way to Gdańsk , Warsaw or Kraków with the same ticket . You can travel on a week day as well so this solution is a lot more flexible and comfortable for a very small price difference . However , for several people , the price difference would be significant because one of the main advantage of the schönes Wochende Ticket is that a whole family or a small group ( up to 5 people ) can travel with one ticket .
Georgia 's Reforms Associates <URL> called FactCheck <URL> : Conclusion Our research has established that in Georgia certain professions have nationality restrictions due to national and public interests . In order to bring in a verdict , we must also take international experience into consideration . Both strict and lenient , there are certain restrictions and limitations in Europe , the US and CIS countries for granting a work permit to foreign citizens . There are , however , no such limitations in Georgia and any alien can start working in Georgia without any permission ( only a temporary residence permit is necessary after the visa has expired ) . Compared to the current situation , the initiated draft bill regulates the immigration policy of the country . Based upon the abovementioned , we conclude that the statement of Paata Kvizhinadze : " Any foreign citizen could work in our country without any restrictions or quotas . This practically never happens in Europe , the US or CIS countries , " is TRUE . Since the old law allowing for 360 days visas has been <URL> , it is highly likely that there are no employment restrictions for citizens of visa-on-arrival countries . The <URL> also fails to list any restrictions on people arriving to Georgia on tourist visas .
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
I think the most standard scenario is visibly leaving the money ( or a credit card ) in the book/cup/whatever . Make sure banknotes can not fly away and wait . The waiter will expect you to do that and try to check again shortly . Just laying the cash and leaving is not the end of the world but it 's clearly not the usual way , at least in France . If they are too busy and you really want to leave , you can also walk up to the counter/desk/whatever but that would also be somewhat unusual . Whatever you do , waiters will try to accommodate you but people standing up before they have paid does create some stress . Note that in France for example , a tip is not really expected ( when I worked as a waiter I was happy to get one of course but at least half of the tables do n't give any and that 's perfectly OK ) . The way most people tip is by getting their change and then leaving some ( or perhaps even more than that ) on the table when leaving . Saying " make 15 " ( say on a EUR 20 banknote for a EUR 13 bill ) is something Germans do ;-) I do n't know precisely about Italy or Belgium but I think that in the Netherlands there is a stronger expectation that you stand up and go to the desk to pay , at least if the place is not too fancy .
If you intend to stay in UK and Hungary more than a couple of days in each , you 'd need to buy a package for each country separately . The global services rates you cite are actually pretty competitive , if I compare with what I 'm charged for roaming in countries in Europe other than my own . I 'd just try to reduce my voice usage as much as possible , and look at a VoIP solution instead . Free Wi-Fi is not difficult to find in UK and Hungary ( obviously depending whether you spend your time in large cities or not ) . Apart from that , it 's best that you shop around yourself -- recommendation questions are actually off-topic for this site . Look at <URL> and check the available operators and conditions in each country . Check also <URL> for some more information . Skype charges $ 0.026 / minute for calling US numbers , and you can get a monthly subscription to the amount of 60 minutes for as little as $ 1.09 / month ( see <URL> ) . These prices are hard to beat . You can use <URL> ( using your Skype credit to access otherwise paid-for Wi-Fi networks ) . Granted , the Skype Wi-Fi rates are extortionate , but are per-minute rather than per-traffic , so they actually might work well enough depending on your use case . It will be certainly cheaper than $ 0.25 / MB , though .
I will readily presume your family is OK with this idea . It is not our place to speculate on that . Despite what @GayotFow indicates I ca n't find any gender specific information . The only airline flying London-Islamabad direct , Pakistan Airlines <URL> says : 7.7.1 You will not be accepted for carriage if you are under 5 years of age on the date the flight commences unless you are accompanied by an escort aged 18 years or more . If you are between 5 and 16 years of age , we can arrange for an escort , provided we receive 7 Days or more notice prior to travel and an extra charge is paid . Nothing else in the CoC is about this age range , 7.7.2 only applies to 5-12 year olds . I would strongly recommend to arrange such an escort . If something goes sideways , you do n't want a 13 year old to deal with it alone . Another airline which specifically mentions Pakistan is <URL> but only in regards of being a short haul flight for them , no gender specific restriction . In general , without knowing the specific airline , the above is typical : above 12 the UAM service is optional but strongly recommended .
Crossing into the West Bank itself is simply a matter of continuing on whatever road you were already on and passing a check point , ( though usually they are only checking anyone going the other way ) and it 's perfectly doable with an Israeli taxi , or any one else willing to take you there for that matter . Furthermore , it 's just as doable to procede from there into an Israeli settlement ; it 's just like driving into any other town . However , I would recommend finding out the best way to get there in advance from the person who lives there , as many roads can be much more safe than others . It is also perfectly possible to return to the fully recognized part of Israel , this time through an actual checkpoint , again in any Israeli vehicle . Whether you will have to pre - arrange depends on where you are ; your host will likely know local taxi options . However , for a journey to Tel Aviv it may be a good idea to pre-book regardless . In terms of general safety , both day and night it depends where exactly you are . But in all cases most likely people living there will say it 's safe enough for them to travel . At the same time there are other places that are probably statistically safer to be , so it really is up to your comfort level . This is another question that would be best for your host who is likely familiar with the exact roads you will be on . ( Also , obviously a taxi from Tel Aviv will cost quite a bit ) Getting to Palestinian towns from the west bank will be very different , as Israeli taxis will not go there , and there may be more security checks on the way in and/or out of the towns/cities . You will have to take an Israeli car into the west bank as above and then transfer somewhere to Palestinian transportation .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
When the tour guide / tour operator quotes you a price for a private package , it is more often than not a set offer . You can always ask if they can discount the price a bit , but most likely they would respond by simply changing up the package to use other components , lower grade hotel room , less game drive time , etc. . A reputable tour company has already established the value of its programs and is not really inclined to start discounting for the sake of getting just one more booking . A small , lesser known company would be more amenable to discounting to build up their customer base and word of mouth . This is part of the reason why you rarely see the big name tours offering trips on discount offer websites like ZOZI , LivingSocial , etc. . You can always ask , but do n't count anything huge ( a couple of percent off ) .
Implementation of rules on whether a device should be allowed in flight mode or not is spotty . Ryanair is one that I 've come across that has a blanket ban ; I 've also encountered <URL> ( which operates in South-East Asia / Australia sector ) . Not surprising , perhaps , when you consider that when it was started it was partly owned by Ryanair 's owner . I 've also come across the same rule on one of the Thai low-cost airlines - Orient Thai or Nok Air - I forget which one . I think it 's just a case that it 's quicker to check whether a device is switched off rather than checking whether it 's in flight mode . Most of these low-cost airlines have short turnaround times ( same plane that lands in a city flies back within 45-60 minutes ) , and their pre-flight check is faster if they can just zip through the aisle telling people to switch off their mobile devices . I have n't been told I ca n't use a device in flight mode on a full-service airline .
I can add that we participate in the NYC Walkabout which runs annually . Unfortunately , the one this year already happened 3 weeks ago . walkaboutnyc.com
First of all , it depends on why your card is retained . I can think of at least three common situations : You have entered a wrong PIN too many times . Your issuing bank has decided to cancel and retain your card , e.g. because you have exceeded your credit limit and they want to prevent you from charging the card at " offline merchants " . This may of course be a mistake by your issuing bank . A failure ( software or mechanical ) in the ATM prevents it from returning your card . In the first two situations , you are unlikely to get your card back . The wrong PIN count is recorded on the card itself , so even if you got it back , it would be retained again the next time you are trying to use it . The wrong PIN counter on the magnetic strip can at least in theory be reset , so that the card itself is reactivated . This can however only be done by the issuing bank . If you are using a card with a chip , the chip may permanently deactivate if you exceed the number of allowed wrong PIN entries . In this case , you need a new physical card . If the card is retained on request by your issuing bank , the cause is not specified through the ATM network , so the ATM operator would not know why your bank wants the card to be retained . Common practice is to not return such cards to the holder . After all , the operator must assume that your issuing bank requested the card to be retained for some reason . In this case , the card is not necessarily permanently deactivated , but can be reactivated if you are able to solve the issue with your bank . This may of course mean a lot of hassle for you and may require you to convince both your issuing bank and the ATM operator to get in touch with each other , so that you can get your card back . In the third case , if the ATM swallows your card without obvious reason , you are likely to be able to get your card back . Even if it 's not solved immediately , the ATM operator will have no reason to further retain your card , and return it to you . If the ATM is not located in a bank office or you are using the ATM outside the opening hours , there is of course no one immediately available to do this . In many cases , you can find a phone number for customer support located on the ATM . They may or may not be able to help you . Unfortunately , it is not possible to reliably prevent any of these situations from happening . Even if your card is retained by mistake , do not expect too much effort from the ATM operator to help you with a swift solution . There are however a few things you can do to mitigate the consequences of a retained card : Do not use ATMs outside regular bank offices . If they are malfunctioning and retaining your card by mistake , you are bound to spend much time resolving the issue . Try to use ATMs in actual banks during the opening hours or at least in a location you can stay until the bank opens again on the next working day . In this case , you have at least someone to talk to , who can actually get access to your card . Check with your bank or card issuer in advance which options you have if your card is lost or retained . Do they offer emergency cash on a short notice ? Are they able at all to issue you a new card , which is delivered to you on short notice in or near the locations you are traveling to ? If not , you should consider a travel insurance with such benefits . If possible , bring at least two ATM cards from different banks . If one of the issuing banks for some reason decides to bar your card , you can use the second card until the issue with the first card is solved . Do not be unreasonably afraid to carry enough cash . I guess this depends on where you are traveling , but my experience is that it is much more likely to run into problems when trying to pay with or withdraw cash from an ATM card than to be robbed .
Since there is only eight hours of daylight in London in January I would suggest you take the afternoon class . If you take the morning class then most of the daylight hours will taken up studying inside . It is probably safer and more enjoyable to wander around an unfamiliar city during daylight . For typical sunrise / sunset hourse see : <URL>
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
Here you go : <URL> ￥ 1,296 from Amazon.co.jp . Here 's a <URL> with some pictures of the map folded out . And yes , that 's entirely in Japanese , I very much doubt such a thing exists in English . To get some idea of the effort that would entail , <URL> of another incomplete &amp; partial map covering just the Tokyo metro area .
I have been to Dhaka many , many times . In these times I stayed in two different hotels , they both had toilet paper just like any other hotel in the world . A quick google image search using the query <URL> revealed a lot of toilet photos for hotel toilets there , all of them seem to show toilet paper . Also , reading Dhaka hotel reviews in TripAvidor showed no such issue . Finally , you are free to ask for the toilet paper because most people who live in countries where they use water instead of toilet paper they also use toilet paper to dry after using the water . So no worries .
First off , it 's never going to be ' cheap ' , unfortunately . There are a few reasons for this . ( * these prices correct as of November 2010 ) The Base If you fly , there 's no way around the fixed fare of USD$ 420 to fly return from Quito or Guayaquil . Then there 's the $ 100 National Park entrance fee . And another $ 10 for taxes . So we 'll ignore all that and just call that the ' base ' , and focus on the rest being cheaper ... A lot seem to focus on the cruise you 'll " need " to do . That 's not always the case . From <URL> : The airport beside Santa Cruz is on a small nearby island in the north side called Baltera , and from here you must get a 50 cent ferry across , then a $ 3 bus down south to the town . Once in town , it 's very easy to set yourself up with a $ 20 private hotel room with A/C and TV , and even Wifi ! Even out here in the middle of the Pacific ocean you remain connected to your Facebook Wall posts ! ( or GlobeNotes obviously ! ) The volcanic island of Isabella is about 2 hours by boat from Santa Cruz , and boats leave daily for only $ 25-30 . Bear in mind that boats only leave Santa Cruz at 2pm , and then leave Isabella only at 6am , so an overnight is required . Many people have told me that , with these two islands ( Isabella alone being 52 % of the total Galapagos landmass ) you can actually see MOST of the wildlife that you see on the far off islands that require cruises , the main exception being red-footed boobies and a few other bird species which are only found on the remote islands . Giant-Tortoise , Sea lions , Penguins , and TONS of Iguana . You name it . . you can see them all within about 15 min boat ride from the coast of either Isabella or Santa Cruz . Score ! It 's worth noting that according to <URL> : If you are planning to visit the Galapagos Islands , Guayaquil is the cheapest place to take a flight from . There are three air carriers that will take you across the Galapagos Islands as well as the Ecuadorean mainland , LAN-ECUADOR <URL> , Aerogal <URL> and TAME [ 5 ] have non stop daily flights , departing from Guayaquil is cheaper than leaving from Quito ( Is closer and most of the Quito flights do make an stop at Guayaquil 's airport for Refueling and picking up passengers . International departure airport tax was just recently increased in Guayaquil and is exactly $ 29.75 ( January 2010 ) . About 15 $ cheaper than Quito airport . Now , once you 're in Quito or Guayaquil , there are two sides to consider with tours . One - the travel agents will often claim the best tours are gone months in advance . Certainly some will be , but I 've NEVER hard of a person disappointed with their tour , no matter when they booked it . However , I have heard of some FANTASTIC deals bought on the ground in Quito . When staying at the <URL> in Quito , the <URL> downstairs was very closely linked with the hostel , offering free city tours and salsa lessons and the like . In addition , they were able to advise people about Galapagos options . I heard of people getting final berths on 5-star boats for the equivalent of paying 2 days for 7 , others getting discounted meals , and they were all booked in Quito or Guayaquil . So in conclusion , it 's hard to say for certain whether things are cheaper on the ground , but from anecdotal opinions , my experience , and the very reason tour companies exist in these cities , is that it is possible to beat prices when on the ground . And of course , this will flex with seasonal trends - more likely to get bargains in low season .
end question
start question
Where is this castle ?
This is <URL> in Schwangau , Germany . For more information about the castle and how to visit it , here is the <URL> . Photo from <URL>
From Wikitravel 's <URL> : Rome has excellent shopping opportunites of all kinds - clothing and jewellery ( it has been nominated as a top fashion capital ) to art and antiques . You also get some big department stores , outlets and shopping centres , notably in the suburbs and outskirts . Main shopping areas include Via del Corso , Via Condotti , and the surrounding streets . The finest designer stores are around Via Condotti , whilst Via del Corso has more affordable clothing , and Via Cola di Rienzo , and the surroundings of Via del Tritone , Campo de'Fiori , and Pantheon are the places to go for cheaper items . Upim is a good shop for cheap clothing of workable quality . Some brands ( like Miss Sixty and Furla ) are excellent , some are not as good - be sure to feel garments and try them on . There are also great quality shoes and leather bags at prices that compare well with the UK and US . But when shopping for clothes note that bigger sizes than a UK size 16/US 12 are n't always easy to find . Children 's clothing can be expensive with basic vests ( tank tops ) costing as much as $ 21 in non-designer shops . If you really need to buy clothers for kids try the Oviesse chain . Summer sales in many stores begin around July 15th and Rome also has New Year sales . As mentioned above , Via Condotti is Rome 's top haute couture fashion street ( equivalent of Fifth Avenue in New York City , Via Montenapoleone in Milan , or Bond Street in London ) . Here , you can find big brand names such as Gucci , Armani , Dior , Valentino and Hermès , and several other high-class shops . However , the streets around the Via Condotti , such as Via Frattina , Via del Babuino , Via Borgognona and the Piazza di Spagna also offer some excellent high fashion boutiques , including Roberto Cavalli , Dolce &amp; Gabbana , Versace , Prada and Givenchy ( and several others ) . So once in the city , the big boutique names are n't absent . In these luxurious streets , however , you neede n't only do clothing shopping - there are some really good and funky jewellery ( e.g. Bulgari , Cartier , Tiffany 's &amp; Co. ) , pen and accessory ( i.e. Mont Blanc ) and artsy stores peppered here and there in these streets . If you want to spend a day in a large shopping mall , there 's the Euroma2 with about 230 shops ( mainly clothes and accessories ) and restaurants , to be found near the EUR district . Take Metro B line from Termini to EUR Palasport station , cross the road and take the frequent free bus ( ride takes 5-15 minutes ) to the mall . In addition to many shops and food , the conditioned air and free toilets may be a welcome relief if you are in Rome during mid-summer . La Rinascente , Rome 's first department store , having been opened in 1887 , is also a good retail department store , selling fashion , design , houseware and beauty products . If you like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch or Hollister , you have an Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Italia store in the Via Collatina . There are lots of fake plastic ' Louis Vuitton ' bags being sold at the side of the road . Be aware , that buying of fake products is illegal in Italy . Fines up to $ 1000 have been reported . If you are happy to take the risk , make sure you haggle ; unsuspecting tourists pay up to $ 60 for them . If you want to buy souvenirs or gifts , a museum would be the worst choice since there are many stalls along the streets of touristic areas that offer reasonable prices . It is likely that the same item in the gift shop of any museum will cost much more . Factory outlets <URL> , near Rome , along the Via Pontina highway . A very large Factory Outlet with more than 100 branded shops . A car is needed to reach the place but a 30 % discount in a designer shop is surely worth the 20km trip . <URL> . A little further away from Rome than Castel Romano , you can find Valmontone outlet on the motorway towards Napoli just 50 Km far from Rome . Valmontone itself is a delightful little town - 30 mins by train .
For Singapore , camping is limited to certain places : Changi Beach Park - From Carpark 1 to Carpark 4 and Carpark 6 to Carpark 7 ) East Coast Park - Area D and Area G Pasir Ris Park - Area 1 and Area 3 West Coast Park - Area 3 For all the places above , a camping permit is required , however you can apply for it easily online at the <URL> . The maximum camping period is 4 days for each applicant . You could also try to camp in Pulau Ubin ( Jelutong , Noordin and Mamam Beaches ) . These beaches do not need any permit . Another option is to camp in Sentosa beach , with permission from Sentosa authorities . Try to email to administrator@sentosa.com.sg to get the permit .
You can find the site at <URL> but AFAIK it 's Persian only . I am slightly curious as to what you searched for on Google , really :
Indeed as Doc says , it was Wat Sok Pa Luang , more commonly written as Wat Sokpaluang or , in Lao , " ວັດໂສກປ່າຫຼວງ " . Sokpaluang is also the name of the suburb or region of Vientiane where it 's located . The Wat is apparently also known as " The Jungle Temple " . Sadly , in answer to the part of your question If it still exists ? and according to reviewers on TripAdvisor , the answer is no because <URL> . I have n't found anything yet on whether it 's being rebuilt or opened elsewhere . I have n't found up-to-date pricing yet but here is pricing from 2011 <URL> : The Wat Sok Pa Luang herbal sauna and traditional massage is open to the public from 1-8pm daily . It costs 15,000 kip ( $ 1.90 US ) for the steam room and 35,000 kip ( $ 4.45 US ) for an hour massage . Lao nationals pay 30,000 ( $ 3.80 US ) kip for the same combo . ( I 've updated the exchange rate but it 's practically the same . ) It 's hard to find on Google Maps due to the variety of ways Lao can be written in the English &amp; French alphabets . <URL> with the help of the directions in some of the blog posts on the temple . You could walk there in about 45 minutes by heading south where half the embassies are located and turning left into a road that has the same name as the temple but apparently lacks a street sign . Obviously you could get a tuk tuk there more quickly and very cheaply too . It 's actually very close to the German Embassy , so you could just head there and then find the temple : <URL> is also more helpful than Google Maps in this case .
You should stay in Levanto , which is just before Monterosso : it 's much cheaper , and you will have a lot more options regarding accomodation ( B&amp;B s , hotels , etc ) . There is a train station allowing you to go directly to all of the villages if you want to go by train . You can also take the boat , and hop from town to town : it 's really a nice way to discover the villages , I definitely recommend it . There is also a trail linking Levanto to Monterosso if you want to hike ( and then between all villages ) . You should also definitely go to Portovenere ( at the south side ) , real nice as well .
Rossio / Chiado area are both very good options . And so is near Parque Eduardo VII though I have some comments here : If it 's near the Rotund ( Marquês ) , it 's practicaly downtown , it 's perfectly walkable . It 's no longer than 10 min for Bairro Alto . You have the begining of Avenida da Liberdade right there and right after starts Rossio . You can find many ( good ) restaurants along the way . This is a very important and beautiful Avenue . If it 's in the upper part of PE VII , than you can add an extra 10 min to arrive to Bairro Alto or anywhere else downtown . It 's , of course , walkable as well , but a bit more . It depends on your likes/dislikes . Regarding subway : depending on where you stay near PEXVII you have several choices for the station : Marques , Parque or S. Sebastiao . Subway closes around 1AM .
One journalist did attempt to <URL> - both the artificial labs and the natural spaces . He details it in his book - <URL> if you 'd like to read it . The highlights in nature : Several years ago , the Campaign to Protect Rural England declared a <URL> the most tranquil place in the country ( when the nearby military base is n't doing training exercises ) . 12 such quiet places exist in the US , with more found around the world . A spot in the <URL> in Washington is one , as are places in <URL> in Canada , <URL> in Minnesota and <URL> in Hawaii ( see gallery ) . The others , however , he keeps confidential . On the other hand , he identified a quiet place deep in the <URL> , he suspects other such places in Poland , Norway , Sweden and Finland Recently , <URL> was created to show the quiet spots on a summer day . So that gives some idea for sound levels in the US . As you 'd expect - away from people , cities , and wildlife tends to produce quiet , although windy areas also affect it . Aside from nature , he points out the quietest places are custom built , such as the <URL> , in Minnesota . <URL> : " Group tours are available a few times a year and include a brief stop at the anechoic chamber ( call the lab for details ) . But the facility has had so much interest in the 45-minute challenge that the founder Steven Orfield is considering making that option available to the public within the next year , and is working with the Guinness Book of World Records to establish an official record for the longest time spent in an anechoic chamber . The 45-minute challenge will not come cheap , however , as companies renting the space normally pay $ 300 to $ 400 an hour , and someone trained from the lab must be able to supervise the participants to ensure their safety . " UPDATE : As of this month , Microsoft now officially holds the Guinness World Record for quietest place on earth - <URL> .
There is/was a community around Taize activities in Vienna , but they don ´ t seem to be very active anymore . Many informations and activitiy dates in the net are very outdated ( eg . nothing new since 2013 ) . The only thing which could be active to this day ( could ) is A weekly Taize prayer , each Wednesday 19:00 ( except Christmas week ) in the St.Ruprechts church 1010 Wien . ( <URL> ) A contact mail address is given , if you want to ask if this is still valid : taize.wien@gmail.at Nearest stations of public transport is Schwedenplatz of subway lines U1 and U4 ( or station Morzinplatz by Bus ) . Source ( in german ) eg . <URL> ( and more sites saying the same thing ) .
Basically , it 's because the the fare rules for these flights explicitly disallow what you 're trying to do . Firstly , AT do n't have a specific fare published from SID to NSI . This is n't surprising , and does n't in itself normally stop you from booking a ticket between them as you can ( normally ) just book it as two separate fares for the two flights - all on the same ticket . They do have fares published between SID and CMN , and between CMN and NSI - so you can book those two sectors individually . The problem is that all of the fares that they have published between those cities include the following rule : An " End-on-end " ticket is what it 's called when you use two separate fares to create a single journey . As you can see , they are allowing end-on-end combinations ONLY with domestic fares . This means that although you can book these two segments individually , you ca n't book them as a part of a single ticket - as the rules explicitly disallow it when the connecting flight is international like yours is . Combinability rules like this are common on cheaper fares , but in this case they have the exact same rule on even the full-fare ( Y ) tickets , so it 's not just bumping the price up like you 'd sometimes see , but actually stopping you from doing it at all . The reason you can book SID-DLA is because they have a specific fare between those two cities ( TA0W0CVA SID to DLA ) , so you 're booking it as a single fare rather than attempting to combine two fares . This could be an oversight on their part ( eg , someone forgot to create a fare for SID-NSI ) , or it could be deliberate - nobody but the airline fare management people will know , and you 're not going to be able to get in touch with them ...
Clicking " show more " below the video you will read : The Performance of Russian guitarist Estas Tonne at the Buskers Festival Stadtspektakel in Landshut in September 2011 in the Old Town with " The Song of the Golden Dragon " . . The shoe store " Lipp " and the Commerzbank in the video give away the precise address : Altstadt 76 , Landshut , Germany . Here is a link to the website of the <URL> . It is also shown ( among others ) during the last seconds of the video .
The highest jump is at the Macau tower , at 233m , but it 's technically a controlled descent , not a true bungee . That 's the Skyjump . They do however , have a bungee with a guide rope there too . However , it 's not over sea or water , as you requested . So then you have to look at the jump from the top of the Verzasca Dam near Locarno , Switzerland . It appears in the opening scene of the James Bond film GoldenEye , and is 220m high ! The Bloukrans Bridge Bungy has been operated by Face Adrenalin commercially since 1997 and uses a pendulum bungee system . It is 216m high , from the platform to the river below . So if you 're wanting one over water , that would qualify as the true highest , and indeed is the highest bridge jump in the world . However , if you 're wanting one over the sea as in ocean ( so not river ) , then you 're going to be looking at the 150m jump in Helsinki , Finland . Source : <URL> and <URL> .
This may be better suited for photography.SE Generally speaking your requirement of time lapse photography you will need a permit if you will be on <URL> and explanation of <URL> . When it comes to private buildings access to using the observation deck or the roof is regulated by the building owner . Normally places with accessible observation decks forbid tripods without a <URL> because they take too much space . There are <URL> that make suggestions on what to do instead . So the option you choose is up to you .
Kangaroos are wild animals . While you will come across them if you are driving in rural areas , do not approach them . While most will simply run away , some may enter a more defensive posture especially if there are young ( joeys ) nearby . A kick from an adult can kill a human ( <URL> ) . Kangaroos can be mean vicious creatures . When I was growing up as a kid in Australia , we were cautioned away from getting anywhere near them . The best and safest way to get a selfie with a kangaroo that is n't a cardboard cutout is to go to a zoo that has a petting zoo component . Instead of kangaroos , they often pick the smaller/friendlier cousin , the wallaby ( <URL> ) . This is just one of many petting zoos that have wallabies : <URL>
Temple Bar is generally considered the night life / pub / club centre of Dublin . There is a wide range of accommodation from hostels to quality hotels , and there are a vast number of pubs and clubs within crawling distance .
I ca n't tell you what they would actually do , but I 'm going to <URL> anyway , because that 's what lays out what they 're legally obliged to do . And , alas , the answer is basically nothing . Boldface mine : The Hosts , not Airbnb , are solely responsible for honoring any confirmed bookings and making available any Accommodations reserved through the Site , Application and Services . If you , as a Guest , choose to enter into a transaction with a Host for the booking of an Accommodation , you agree and understand that you will be required to enter into an agreement with the Host and you agree to accept any terms , conditions , rules and restrictions associated with such Accommodation imposed by the Host . You acknowledge and agree that you , and not Airbnb , will be responsible for performing the obligations of any such agreements , that Airbnb is not a party to such agreements , and that , with the exception of its payment obligations hereunder , Airbnb disclaims all liability arising from or related to any such agreements . So basically , if the host cancels your booking for any reason ( # 2 ) , Airbnb will refund your money and suggest other listings nearby : If a Host cancels a confirmed booking made via the Site , Services , and Application , ( i ) Airbnb Payments will refund the Total Fees for such booking to the applicable Guest within a commercially reasonable time of the cancellation and ( ii ) the Guest will receive an email or other communication from Airbnb containing alternative Listings and other related information . If there are no other listings nearby because of the World Cup or a Godzilla rampage , too bad . More or less the same applies to an apartment you ca n't get into ( # 1 ) or an unusable/defective apartment ( # 3 ) , which is covered by a separate but similar <URL> . This policy also applies to cancellations made " shortly before the scheduled start of the reservation " , although what exactly this means ( hours before ? same day ? ) is left undefined . If you are a Guest and suffer a Travel Issue , we agree , at our discretion , to either ( i ) reimburse you up to the amount paid by you through the Site , as determined by Airbnb in our discretion , depending on the nature of the Travel Issue suffered or ( ii ) use our reasonable efforts to find and book you another Accommodation for any unused nights left in your reservation which in our determination is reasonably comparable to the Accommodation described in your original reservation in terms of size , rooms , features and quality . All determinations of Airbnb with respect to the Guest Refund Policy , including without limitation the size of any refund , shall be final and binding on the Guests and Hosts . This seems more generous at first glance , since it looks like they 're promising to actively find you alternative accommodations including non-Airbnb options , but on more careful reading there 's that " or " in there . In other words , they can take option ( i ) , refund your money and say " too bad " . Now , that 's the T&amp;C . <URL> they 'd actually go beyond this minimum and offer you automatic credit to upgrade : What happens if a host cancels my reservation ? 3 ) Book something nicer . We 'll help cover the difference if you want to book a more expensive listing . Just look for an email from us with details on how much credit we can offer based on your existing reservation amount . Although <URL> that credit is not too generous : In our case , we spent over $ 1,200 and they offered $ 37 worth of a voucher for the inconvenience . That 's less than 3 % of the price paid . All this looks a bit mean at first glance , but truth be told , if you examine the fine print of most any hotel chain 's T&amp;C , you 'll find pretty much the same wording . Most better hotels do adopt the practice of " comping " your room if they have to turn you away , meaning they 'll find alternative accommodations and foot the bill , but this is customer service , not a requirement -- and I 'd expect Airbnb to go beyond the minimum as well if you really do run into the worst-case scenario of knocking at somebody 's door in the middle of the night and not getting an answer .
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
Not sure where you 've been reading that , but I can assure you they 're quite wrong , <URL> sells every make of cheap electronics , so Chinese no-name brands and outright ripoffs are legion . Back in the day when iPhones were the new hotness and were n't officially available in Singapore yet , I remember seeing a plethora of " jPhones " , " iFones " , " iPhons " etc , all thinly disguised Windows or Linux . Some dealers are n't above selling you the real thing and slipping a clone in the bag instead , although the Tourist Board is cracking down on this pretty hard . The general rule of thumb for exploring SLS is that the higher up and deeper down you go , the more esoteric the fare on offer . To generalize , the ground floor is mercenary camera dealers and is best avoided , while the first floor is mostly mainstream audio gear , but the second floor up is all IT . The " inner ring " stores facing the atrium are fairly mainstream ( laptops etc ) , but the windowless " outer ring " stores behind them sell components , used gear , etc. . The <URL> is a good place to start hunting , most shops have their own websites . <URL> is also an excellent forum for more info .
The general answer is yes . It is safe to travel there . Nevertheless , Turkey being a very big country one can not lump everything together . The more detailed answer to this questions largely depends on where you go . The area around the Syrian border should be avoided . But that 's nothing really new . Some areas in the East and the South-East should be avoided too . This is n't new either . The Tunceli province has been a place of tension for years . But anyway that 's not a place a tourist would go to . Diyarbakır has also been the theater of recent tensions . But it has calmed down again . More recently , there have been demonstrations in the bigger cities , especially in Istanbul and Ankara . They have on some occasions been violent . There has been some vandalism from the side of the demonstrators and the police has used brute force ( water cannons and tear gas ) to dismantle the demonstrations . These demonstrations are pretty localized though . In Istanbul they are confined to the Taksim square . And there is strictly nothing in the other parts of the city . If you happen to be in this area , just pay attention to what is going on . But do n't be paranoid . A water cannon parked in one corner of the square and some policeman around it can be considered as " normal " these days . However , when they start closing the access to the square , it is time to go . But you do n't have to go very far . Crossing the Tarlabaşı boulevard is enough . On that side you are quiet and you will find a taxi or dolmuş to get away if necessary . So just avoid to get too close to protests and you are fine . There is no use in playing the war correspondent and getting too close to take pictures or videos . I have been to Istanbul and Bursa , some weeks ago and what I am telling here reflects my experience . I have seen the beginning of a demonstration in İstiklal Caddesi . At that moment I decided to go away and go back to the Hotel , which was near the Taksim square . The trip by taxi to the airport was much more dangerous ! It is also worth noting that there is a high <URL> in Turkey . This extends beyond the period you are interested in . In case you are interested , you can follow <URL> , an English speaking source for news about Turkey .
The <URL> tells us that is a 90 mile long valley in Northern California , the city of Salinas is at the northwestern end of the valley , the Salinas rivers flows all along the valley . Steinbeck 's novels where all over the valley , I do n't know about any specific location worth checking out .
end question
start question
What is the absolute cheapest accommodation in Kuwait ( besides couch surfing ) ?
There are 5 HI hostels in Kuwait , including one in Kuwait City : <URL> Apparently the price for HI members is 3 KD/night , or around US$ 10 . Not too shabby . Guest workers almost always stay in company dormitories , which do n't cater to random travellers . And you 'd probably want to avoid them anyway unless sleeping in a tin shed with 50 people and no air con in 50 + degree temps sounds like your idea of a good time ...
I see that every answer here is going on and on about special , luxury trains . This is specifically what the OP does NOT want . <URL> , trains higher up in the hierarchy are usually costlier . There are some exceptions , such as ' Garib Raths ' where the air-conditioned fares are lower than those of ' Express ' or ' Mail ' trains , but by and large this list shows the hierarchy of trains . Within a specific hierarchy ( such as ' Express ' ) and for a specific fare class such as ' sleeper ' or ' third sleeper ' , the fare is proportional to distance . This implies that for ' regular ' trains , the most expensive fare simply depends upon the distance . This can be found from the list of <URL> .
Aha , a site that @Ankur only just showed me earlier this week comes in handy in answering ! The <URL> would appear to answer your question . You have three main choices - O2 , Vodafone and TMobile . It appears ... that O2 might be the best option , as it looks like their acceptable use policy is that once you 've used the small amount of data a day , the speed throttles down . Best to confirm this when you buy , of course . If all you 're using it for is a little geocaching , you may not need much data and this could work ? ( as an aside , why do you need data to geocache ? If you have predownloaded maps ( eg Navdroyd app on Android ) , then all you need is GPS reception , which does n't use data ... ) However , obviously it 'll depend on what else you want it for , for how long , and what speeds , so I suggest having a look at the page and seeing what suits best .
As a general rule , Cape Verde is not very developped for tourism , except in some specific areas ( ie . Santa Maria on the island of Sal , which is full of hotels , bed-n-breakfast , &amp; surf-camps ) . My impression is that because of this , the range of accommodation options is not very wide . So most of the times , you have to go for the local hotel or bed - &amp; - breakfast . Price of local hotels usually starts around 38 $ for a double room ( breakfast included ) , &amp; 30 $ for a single room ( breakfast included ) . Some of these hotels or bed - &amp; - breakfast can be excellent though . You might run into extremely cheap hotels when in more remote places : ie . Tarrafal de Montetrigo , on the island of Sant Antao , we paid 15 $ for a double room , without breakfast , without hot water , but very clean . As a rule of thumb , travelling as a group of 2 to 5 people might be the best option to get cheap accommodation . You can then share a bedroom , a flat , &amp; so on ( btw : same goes for transportation , hiring a guide , ... ) . You rarely find youth hostels , except in some cities . See for instance in Mindello <URL> A good option is to stay at some local 's . You might just ask someone you meet , a taxi driver or else . But it might mean not having hot water &amp; sleeping in rougher conditions ( bad mattress , noisy rooster next door , etc ) . This will be probably the cheapest option , starting around 10 $ per night , for 2 people ( breakfast not included of course ) . Airbnb seems to be a great option in order to get good accommodation at a very descent price . Especially if you are a group of people , and can rent a whole studio/apartement . At the time of writting ( 2015 ) , Airbnb seems to be developing slowly but surely . Some organisations also provide services where you can do activities ( ie . hikes ) &amp; stay at some local 's house . I heard these were very good . Price is not cheap though , as you go through some agency , starting around $ 200 per person for 3 nights &amp; 4 days . Wild camping is a great option , many parts of the country are very quiet &amp; several locals told me it was no problem to put your tent in the country side . Or just ask a farmer if you can use a piece of his land . If you look for camping gear , you probably can only get it in the biggest cities ( Mindello , Praia , &amp; so on ) . CouchSurfing is also an option , although there is not so many members I 've been told . I met a few when in Santa Maria ( island of Sal ) &amp; it was a great experience .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
The usual Aussie website for comparing flight prices is <URL> , but in my experience they do n't list everything . Also they charge a booking fee so use it to find a flight but you might get a better price on the same flight elsewhere once you have the details .
From <URL> ( same article as <URL> ) : <URL> - <URL> ( <URL> ) flight number : LOG 313 , 2.7 km ( 1.7 miles ) 02 min , aircraft : <URL> , first flight - 3 February 2004 It is obvious from that list that the best option is try searching near the islands . Second place is for the <URL> ( from St. Kitts to Nevis ) . Update : <URL> ( with video ) ! Update by Rory Alsop : Flight by my father , Capt. Andy Alsop <URL> , and then reduced by him to 58 seconds ! Screenshot of the page linked above ( from <URL> ) , as it may not be viewable to everyone : You can fly this on a <URL>
What Is the US Visa Waiver Program ? The <URL> allows travellers of certain nationalities to visit the US for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . This is a bilateral agreement , meaning that all countries participating in the VWP must allow US citizens to visit for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . To date <URL> : Andorra ( 1991 ) Australia ( 1996 ) Austria ( 1991 ) Belgium ( 1991 ) Brunei ( 1993 ) Chile ( 2014 ) Czech Republic ( 2008 ) Denmark ( 1991 ) Estonia ( 2008 ) Finland ( 1991 ) France ( 1989 ) Germany ( 1989 ) Greece ( 2010 ) Hungary ( 2008 ) Iceland ( 1991 ) Ireland ( 1995 ) Italy ( 1989 ) Japan ( 1988 ) Korea , Republic of ( 2008 ) Latvia ( 2008 ) Liechtenstein ( 1991 ) Lithuania ( 2008 ) Luxembourg ( 1991 ) Malta ( 2008 ) Monaco ( 1991 ) Netherlands ( 1989 ) New Zealand ( 1991 ) Norway ( 1991 ) Portugal ( 1999 ) San Marino ( 1991 ) Singapore ( 1999 ) Slovakia ( 2008 ) Slovenia ( 1997 ) Spain ( 1991 ) Sweden ( 1989 ) Switzerland ( 1989 ) Taiwan ( 2012 ) United Kingdom ** ( 1988 ) Passport Requirements Travellers wishing to benefit from the VWP must have a machine readable <URL> with a digital photograph printed on the document . All countries participating in the VWP must , and do , issue these passports to their citizens . If you do n't have an e-Passport to date , you 'll have to apply for one . What Is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? The <URL> is a fully automated process which allows visitors to verify if they are eligible to travel to the US under the VWP . The ESTA is not a visa . The ESTA is not a guarantee that visitors will be admitted entry to the US . Obtaining an ESTA simply means that the applicant meets <URL> . Namely : Who You Are : You are a citizen or eligible national of a Visa Waiver Program country . You are currently not in possession of a visitor 's visa . Your travel is for 90 days or less . You plan to travel to the United States for business or pleasure . You want to apply for a new authorization for one person or a group of applications for two or more persons . <URL> : Q : What is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? A : The Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) is an automated system that assists in determining eligibility to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and whether such travel poses any law enforcement or security risk . Upon completion of an ESTA application , a traveler is notified of his or her eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP . Who Needs to Apply for ESTA ? <URL> Travellers who normally would require a visa to enter the US should apply for a visa and not for an ESTA . Travellers who are eligible to visit the US under the VWP must obtain an ESTA prior to travelling to the US . This includes travellers who will only transit in the US on their way to somewhere else . Quoting from <URL> : Q : Who is required to apply for ESTA ? A : All eligible nationals or citizens of VWP countries who plan to travel to the United States for temporary business or pleasure under VWP are required to receive an authorization through ESTA prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or vessel . The term " United States " refers to the continental United States , Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands of the United States , and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands . Accompanied and unaccompanied children , regardless of age , are also required to obtain an independent ESTA approval . A third party , such as a relative or travel agent , is permitted to submit an ESTA application on behalf of a VWP traveler . Q : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require an ESTA if they are only transiting the United States en route to another country ? A : Yes . Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require either an ESTA or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the ESTA application , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination in the address lines under the heading " Address While In The United States . " <URL> An ESTA is required only for travellers seeking entry by air or sea . How Long Is my ESTA Valid For ? Once approved , an ESTA is valid for two years , and can be used multiple times , provided the reason for the multiple visits to the US remains within the scope of the VWP : business or tourism . If the applicant 's passport has less than two years validity left , the ESTA expires when the passport expires . My ESTA Expires Halfway into my Trip in the US <URL> It does not need to be valid for the entire duration of stay in the US . Therefore , there is no need for a traveller to apply for a new ESTA if their existing one expires whilst they are visiti
If you intend to stay in UK and Hungary more than a couple of days in each , you 'd need to buy a package for each country separately . The global services rates you cite are actually pretty competitive , if I compare with what I 'm charged for roaming in countries in Europe other than my own . I 'd just try to reduce my voice usage as much as possible , and look at a VoIP solution instead . Free Wi-Fi is not difficult to find in UK and Hungary ( obviously depending whether you spend your time in large cities or not ) . Apart from that , it 's best that you shop around yourself -- recommendation questions are actually off-topic for this site . Look at <URL> and check the available operators and conditions in each country . Check also <URL> for some more information . Skype charges $ 0.026 / minute for calling US numbers , and you can get a monthly subscription to the amount of 60 minutes for as little as $ 1.09 / month ( see <URL> ) . These prices are hard to beat . You can use <URL> ( using your Skype credit to access otherwise paid-for Wi-Fi networks ) . Granted , the Skype Wi-Fi rates are extortionate , but are per-minute rather than per-traffic , so they actually might work well enough depending on your use case . It will be certainly cheaper than $ 0.25 / MB , though .
The following route is cheaper , but not all that much , and it 's not possible in a day . Bus from Taipei to Keelung , NT$ 55 ( < US$ 2 ) , every 10 min Ferry from Keelung to Matsu , NT$ 620 ( ~ US$ 21 ) in economy , daily except Wed , overnight ( dep 21:50 , arr 08:30 ) Ferry from Matsu to Fuzhou ( Mawei ) , NT$ 1300 ( ~ US$ 43 ) , daily at 2pm , ~ 2 hours Train from Fuzhou to Shenzhen , US$ 23 in hard seat , dep 21:25 arr 16:00 next day Total price ~ US$ 85 , but time required close to 48 hours . Note that you can substitute both Taipei-Matsu and Fuzhou-Shenzhen with flights , or travel Fuzhou-Shenzhen on faster trains , but that 'll eat up any price advantage ( eg . FOC-SZN for CNY 480/US $ 80 for random dates in March ) . Ferry prices and schedules courtesy of <URL> , trains by <URL> .
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
The cheapest solution I 've been able to find was the <URL> ( Italian only , sorry ) which is a nice camping not so far from downtown Mantova . It 's actually a 15 mins walking from almost every place in Mantova with an event associated to the festival . The camping is provided with plenty of space to plant your tent , a common area where you can have your meals and recharge your phone/laptop/whatever batteries and toilets and showers with hot water . The cost for one night is 5 $ , 15 $ if you plan to stay all the 5 days the festival last . Parking the car is free of charge .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
You will be able to rent a bike from <URL> . The operating dates : May to mid-October ( 7 days a week ) , 7:00 am to 9:00 pm ◦ except August 25 , 2015 , open 7:00 am to 5:30 pm
Hotel pricing in Japan is generally highly seasonal , and many hotels go so far as to publish a " room rate calendar " ( 客室料金カレンダー ) that shows exactly how prices vary through the year . Disney has a <URL> , but I 'll use this rather more typical image from the <URL> in Kyushu to illustrate : To parse that , 月 means month ( 6月 = June , 7月 = July , etc ) , and prices are ranked by color so that yellow ( priciest ) > green > light pink > orange > dark blue > dark pink > light blue > cyan ( cheapest ) ; and no , that order does n't make a whole lot of sense . ( Adding in letter codes , eg . <URL> , is pretty common too . ) A few trends are clear : August is the most expensive month , particularly around Obon ( the yellow days ) , with late July not far behind . This is summer holiday season , when families are traveling . The week around New Year 's Day ( late Dec/early Jan ) and Golden Week ( late April/early May ) are also very pricy . Saturdays ( 土 ) always cost more , often Fridays as well ( although not for this particular chain ) . Winter weekdays are cheapest . This is , I 'd posit , the " standard " pricing pattern for hotels and ryokan in tourist-heavy destinations . Business hotels often reverse this to some extent , with cheaper weekend deals . There can be significant deviations from the norm though : Western-style dynamic pricing is becoming more and more common , especially for identikit city center business hotels that can really only compete on price . Tourist hotels tend to go more for " packages " including dinner and drinks and hot spring passes and whatnot . For both , <URL> is the only English-language website I know of where you can reliably find these deals , its main ( Japanese-only ) competitor being <URL> . Places famous for cherry blossoms ( eg . Kyoto and surroundings ) get an extra high season in late March or so . Ski resorts obviously have their high season in winter ( but for these , too , New Year is super-peak ) . The very cheapest lodgings will have more or less flat pricing year-round , although love hotels etc will usually jack up Fri/Sat prices , and the cheapest rooms tend to sell out first at times of high demand .
From what I have heard/read , people always seem to say that Fall , such as September and onwards , is the best time to cruise ( particularly for the Caribbean ) for the following reasons : School has started , so there are less family vacations and college kids looking for cruises . The worry of hurricanes puts some people off . Lack of vacations after Labor Day and before Thanksgiving . I do n't have any hard data to back that up though . Keep in mind some places , like cruises to Alaska , are only around during certain times of the year so there 's no ' time of year ' for them to be cheaper than others . And finally , the cheapest deals I can usually find are from last minute cruise deals , but you have to be ready to go within a week or two . Those are typically much cheaper because the cruise ship wants to fill up their vacant spots .
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
There are actually many cheaper options in Probolinggo than the ones visible on internet or in lonely planet Indonesia ( edition 2013 ) . I stayed in a guesthouse for 80 ' 000 IDR per night , for a double bedroom with shower ( cold water only ) . It was clean , not far from the train station , and staff was nice . The guesthouse is called " female guesthouse " , although I 'm a male , this name made no difference . Note that I went with my girlfriend . Tampiarto hotel has double bedrooms with AC for 195 ' 000 IDR . <URL> . <URL> . Hostel Dharma has double rooms without AC for 75 ' 000 IDR , &amp; with AC for 125 ' 000 IDR . <URL> . I also found another few places with higher standards ( i.e. With swimming pool for around 200 ' 000 IDR ) . Please find below a picture of a flyer from 2015 with different hotels and the relevant prices , address , phone number , and so on . For further info , contact the tourism information office in Probolinggo , they were very helpful when I got in touch with them .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
end question
start question
What conditions can hold luggage expect during a flight ?
Pressure is going to be basically the same as the passengers enjoy , as the entire fuselage is pressurized . The only real difference will be temperature , as the cargo hold area is not usually heated to any great degree unless the aircraft is transporting live animals or cold sensitive perishable items . The cold section of the cargo hold may drop down to 10C ( give or take a few degrees ) , but they would n't let it drop below freezing as they do n't want bottled liquids in suitcases freezing solid .
Late March can be pretty cool in Budapest , I mean less chance for 20 degrees ( Celsius ) and more for 10 ! Prepare for possible rain and wind also . Nights will be between 0 and 5 degrees , so take a warm sweater and a waterproof jacket with you . Enjoy Budapest anyway !
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
Probably not ( but it does not hurt to ask ) . RyanAir as actually a Q/A section that answers the question " can i book a seat for my luggage " . If taken verbatim this seems to apply almost exclusively to musical instruments , you would need to ask if your CP30 falls under those exceptions . However they give maximum dimensions , so if your robot exceeds those you already have your answer . From <URL> . Sporting or musical equipment including but not limited to large fishing rods , golf clubs , bikes * ( bikes have a weight limit of 30 kilos ) , scooters , fencing equipment , boules , pole vaults , javelin , surfboards , bodyboards , snowboards and skis and large musical instruments including but not limited to harps , double bass and drums are inherently unsuitable for carriage by airlines operating fast turnarounds such as Ryanair . However , these items may be carried in the hold of the aircraft in addition to your personal checked baggage allowance up to a limit of 20 kilos per item . Fees apply , click here for details . Any sporting and musical item weighing over the 20 kilos allowance will be charged for the excess at the applicable excess baggage rate per kilo . Bicycles - MUST be contained in a protective box or protective bike bag in order to be accepted for travel . Electric bicycles can not be transported by plane . Smaller musical items such as a guitar , violin or viola which exceed our cabin baggage dimensions may be carried in the cabin if a seat for it has been reserved and the appropriate fare paid . There is no checked or cabin baggage allowance associated with the purchase of an extra seat . To book an extra seat for an item the word " ITEM SEAT " must be entered as the surname and " EXTRA " must be entered at the first name . EXTRA ITEM SEAT will then be displayed on the reservation and online boarding pass . The accompanying passenger 's travel document details must be entered during the online check - in process . Reserved seating in emergency rows 1,16 and 17 may not be purchased if you have purchased an extra seat for item/comfort . For health and safety reasons Ryanair does not accept for carriage any individual item exceeding 32 kilos or with combined dimensions of more than 81cms ( height ) , 119cms ( width ) and 119cms ( depth ) . This weight limit does not apply to mobility equipment .
From a former cabin crew 's point of view , there are two issues here : 1 . Waking the passengers up : This is done for two reasons actually : Safety reason : It is a good practice for the airlines to wake passengers up whenever possible , the real reason behind that is checking if the passenger is ok or not . Many cases of very sick passengers ( incapacitated ) were discovered this way . Sometimes the crew fails to wake up the passenger and call a doctor onboard , doctor comes and discovers something wrong and saves the passenger ! . ( I have personally experienced that ) . Sometimes dead passengers are discovered this way . Furthermore , this practice is embedded in most airlines ' safety policies . Service reason : If the crew did not wake up the sleeping passengers at the time of the service , once the passengers wake up they will ask for a meal . This is not easy for many reasons , the meals can not be re-heated again ( food poisoning risk ) and most likely the crew will heat all of the meals for that service at once so no extra frozen meals available . The crew also can not use the meals from the second service before its time , also heating the meals takes from 20-30 minutes and there will be no time especially after the second service . So to save their selves from some problems , wake them up and ask them , that 's the best for both crew and passengers . 2 . Asking the passengers to put the seat in upright position : Now this does not really make sense , most of the airlines interior manufacturers have solved this issue and not the space nor the position of the opened tray table is affected by the seat position ( either upright of fully reclined ) because tray tables are not originated from the seat itself , they are originated from the seat legs which are fixed and do not move . So reclining the seat will only makes the upper area smaller but does not actually move the table backward . I worked for years as cabin crew on different models and different interior designs and never seen this issue . Yes reclined seats can make it harder for you to enter the row because the upper are will be more narrow but for sure it will not affect the lower area where the tray table is . Many airlines do distribute a " Do Not Disturb " sticker in long-haul flights to people who wants to sleep undisturbed will stick it so crew will not wake them up during services . First and Business classes passengers do not have to worry about this because they usually have more space between rows and in-seat tray tables . To answer your question , why do they do it in this airline , I really do not know and I can not know , but I am sure they have a good reason . Either they have a bad interior design or just some policy for a reason I am not aware of . As you can see in the photo above , the tray table is attached to the seat leg which is fixed . Reclining the seat while the table is down will not affect the table position . Otherwise the table will also be tilted !
Getting back to my own question . I was successfully able to take the 23kg luggage on the domestic flight as well . I had to collect my baggage at mumbai for custom related checks and again had to checkin at Jet Airways counter , but there was no problems at all and without any additional costs .
No you do n't need to claim and recheck your bags . For future reference at Changi , if you 're flying with SQ on the same ticket they will transfer them for you . <URL> the answer from their Twitter : Are both flights booked under the same booking ref ? If yes , the baggage will be check through to the final destination .
The simple answer is , it depends ! Each airline , and even sometimes each airport , will have different rules about what is and is not allowed . As a general rule , most airlines will NOT automatically check your luggage through for an overnight connection . You will normally need collect your luggage when you land , and re-check it the following morning . This is normally a good thing as it allows you access to your luggage for your overnight stay . However this is not true for all airlines - some WILL check your luggage through , especially for short overnight stays ( eg , arrive 11:30 pm , depart 5:30 am ) . The only way to find out exactly what they are going to do is to ask the airline , and even then you might find that when you get to the airport they proceed to do something different anyway ! If you want access to your luggage at the stopover point then basically all airlines will honor such a request at check-in . This is called " short-checking " , and although not all airlines will do it in a general sense , they all should for an overnight layover . If you want them to keep your luggage overnight , then it may be a bit more of a struggle . Some airlines , and even some airports , have policies that they simply will not do this - so whilst you can ask , be ready for a refusal . The one time you may be able to talk them into doing this where they otherwise refuse is if you are not able to go through passport control at the connecting country ( eg , you do n't have a visa ) , in which case you will not be able collect your luggage - in this case they may be more willing to check it all the way through , however I would not bet on this always being successful .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
My father did Liverpool - Azores - Halifax in a 26 foot wooden sailboat ( a Thames Bawley , mahogany ) in 1984 with a total crew of 3 . Liverpool - Azores took 17 days ; Azores - Halifax took 21 . ( They spent a week in the Azores resupplying and changing some of the crew since taking 6 weeks vacation to be part of something like this is quite a challenge . ) BTW he took no GPS or the 1980s equivalent and navigated with sextant and the like . Eccentric no doubt , but it could n't break and its batteries could n't run out . You might want to spend a few weeks , months , or years learning that kind of thing before trying to sail the Atlantic . It took about 7 years to get back to that longitude , but that was because he carried on around the long way , and broke the trip into many legs with multi year pauses in between them . 20,000 miles took a total of 202 days sailing .
As Mark mentioned it does depend on the airport and country , but as a general rule , the inspectors are only required to repack your items back into the suitcase they came out of . The plastic wrap is a disposable item and even if they slowly and carefully unwrapped it , it would be near impossible to rewrap . So plastic wrap would be tossed by any inspection after you have checked your bags . If you have something like a cardboard box and the plastic wrap was keeping it shut , then the inspector would likely use tape to close the box after completing the inspection .
Maui Weather Is Very Localized Weather on Maui is very localized , so the average temperature does n't really tell the whole story . Also , the rain tends to fall all at once like a flash food , so the quantity of rain is n't that relevant except for the windward shore ( i.e. Hana ) where it rains all the time . Key Aspects Determining the Weather You Will Experience on Maui In my experience here 's what you need to know about weather for Maui : The weather on the windward shore ( i.e. Hana and the road to it ) is wet and not hot . Unless you stay in Hana you can comfortably drive to most of the island on a day-trip basis , particularly if you stay in Kihei area . There is good weather ( sunshine , little wind , warm temperature ) somewhere on the island almost every day . It is relatively common for any one part of the island to have sort of lousy weather ( by tropical standards ) for a week at a time . Your Strategy Will Determine Your Odds of Experiencing Good Weather Assuming you 're not staying in Hana , you 've got two basic strategies that will determine the weather that you experience . Strategy 1 : You rent a car and drive to wherever the weather is good every day . Likely Outcome : You 'll enjoy a hot beach every day -- you just wo n't know which one until the day of . Worst Case : You 'll have one or two days of bad weather . Strategy 2 : You stay in one place all day every day . Likely outcome : You 'll have a few good and a few bad weather days . Worst Case : The weather is miserable for your entire stay . Recommended Clothing Even for those who are cold most of the time , and even when it 's raining , it is rare that long sleeves are required . ( The one exception is at elevation on Haleakala -- temperatures decline all the way to freezing as you reach the top the crater . ) My wife and I have been on several multi week trips to maui at all times of the year and have never needed more long pants than those worn on the plane . We normally wear short sleeves and swim gear ( i.e. bikini or board shorts ) Then we use cotton hoodies and hats or <URL> to regulate body temperature up , or go shirtless and into the water to regulate down . Sun Exposure Maui is pretty close to the equator which has two effects : the peak midday sun is very high and intense the days are fairly short so the peak is also short In other words , Hawaii has an extreme peak of UV exposure in the middle of the day . That peak is difficult to manage even with sunscreen , hats , and sleeves ; particularly if you are hard-starting a tan . This is demonstrated by the many tourists you 'll see with sunburns on the top side of their bodies . If you stay in the shade between 11a and 2p you 'll have a much lower likelihood of burning . Water Temperature The ocean water often feels cold when you get in , this is because your skin temperature is typically high in Maui , so <URL> when you first get in . Once you are in the water , it is warm enough to stay indefinitely unless you are completely sedentary . Many swimming pools in Maui are not heated and seem to be noticeably colder than the ocean . I usually ca n't stay in these unheated pools indefinitely because they are too cold .
TL ; DR - for almost all cases , all trains which permit seat reservations need to be with the same TOC to get a cheap deal Advanced Purchase tickets on their own are always for specific trains . When you get your ticket , it 'll have 2 + parts , one for the route , one saying what trains you have to take ( and normally your seat too ) . In some cases , the ticket will be an Advanced Purchase &amp; Connections ticket , which allows you to travel on " local " trains at one or both ends of your Advanced Purchase ticket . Not all AP tickets have a + Connections option though , and it tends to only be certain stations that it 's offered for . Next thing to know - on the backend side , there are two kinds of UK train tickets . There are ones valid on any operator , for which the <URL> shares the revenue between the different companies who 's trains you could take based on seats + trains , and ones valid for only one operator , for which on that operator gets the ticket cash . Secondly , within certain bounds , normal ticket prices between any two stations are priced by a single operator , even if multiple operators might have trains on the route . For example , Oxford to Reading is set by FGW , even though you can pick between FGW and XC trains on that route . Advanced Purchase tickets are restricted to specific trains . If all of those trains are with the same company , then that TOC can keep all the money . If it 's a with connections one , then they 'll need to share some of it , which they 'd rather not do on a cheap ticket . So , from Reading to Lancaster , you hit a problem . From Reading north to about Wolverhampton , ticket prices will be set by XC ( Cross Country ) . From Wolverhampton north , that 'll be set by VWC ( Virgin West Coast ) . For a Reading to Lancaster complete ticket , they 're also set by Virgin West Coast as <URL> . While both companies can offer Advanced Purchase tickets for the whole route , they 'll have to share the revenue for a fair bit of the ticket , so they wo n't price it so keenly , and probably wo n't release very many seats for the " &amp; Connections " . If you book a Reading to Wolverhampton AP ticket ( either on a direct train , or one with a change in Birmingham , but either way on only Cross Country trains ) , then XC will keep all the cash , so will have a good price , and a fair number of cheap tickets available . Likewise , Wolverhampton to Lancaster will be all VWC so they 'll do cheap APs . There are actually <URL> , for between # 21 and # 83.40 , but for the reasons above they 'll probably be hard to find . If you book just when tickets go on sale ( normally 90 days out ) , you might manage to snag one . Otherwise , later , you 'll find it easier to get TOC specific non-connections AP tickets with splitting at TOC boundaries , as they tend to have more seats available . Oh , and another thing to consider - an off-peak single from Reading to Lancaster via Banbury ( not via London ) is only # 49.30 , so outside of peak times you 'll need to play around a lot with AP tickets to get one cheaper than a flexible ticket !
The kicker is the delay , once you pass the airlines reporting deadline , the chances for compensation drop to basically zero . Too easy for folks to start claiming all sorts of non-existant items . Personally I would have been persistent with calls or perhaps gone back to the airport to report the theft . At this point your best bet is to write a polite letter explaining the situation , include copies of the ticket , boarding passes and purchase receipt . You might get lucky . But I suppose at this point the two of you have learned the number one rule about baggage when flying ... put nothing of value in checked bags .
One of the steps of preparing the cabin for landing is checking that all passengers are seated and buckled up , no passengers are using the toilets and toilets are locked ( it can be [ un ] locked from outside ) . The reasons behind checking the toilets for passengers during landings and takeoffs are related to both safety and security . The safety related reasons are obvious , landings can be hard and you sitting in the toilet can be dangerous . Security related reasons are also obvious , the aircraft is closer to the land and most likely over a city , which make the sabotage plans have bigger effects . What will the crew do The crew will knock on the door , and ask you to come out . They can also unlock the door from outside and open it . They can remove the whole door easily if you were to keep locking it from inside ( lavatory doors are equipped for this ) . The crew will also inform the captain about the situation , depending on the crew judgment , they can call security upon arrival , or call the onboard air marshal . What should you do DO NOT resist by any means , not verbally and not physically . If they ask you what are you doing , tell them the reason clearly , do not say vague stuff like " I do not feel well " , just say it clearly , something like " I have diarrhea " . If they want to open the door to make sure , open it for them , if they try to open the door from outside , do not resist it . Most likely they will take a quick peek and close the door . Once they are sure you are simply doing nothing wrong , they wo n't escalate it . Remember , the cabin crew will deliver the message to the captain depending on the first impression they get , that impression can be a threat impression , or a a guy with bad stomach impression . The captain will react according to the first call since it is a landing which is considered a critical phase in the airlines business , the reaction can be as extreme as declaring an emergency landing , or as simple as " tell the guy to hang on to something " . Finally , the reaction will be different from one airline to another , country to another , crew to another . In some countries I would expect the reaction to be extreme in the name of security , while in some others ( like in Asia ) the crew might be more understanding . In any case , the crew are humans , and they do understand human needs .
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
Since Turkish Airlines offers <URL> to passengers with layovers like yours , you 're going to want to tell them . You might prefer a free stay in a hotel instead , but I would go for the tour . The FAQ does mention : There is luggage custody office next to Hotel Desk with a service fee . You may check the conditions and prices ; <URL> . If requested , touristanbul participants can leave their luggages ( unless they are electronics or precious items ) to the assigned tour shuttles at their own risk . It sounds like everyone can use the Baggage Custody Services , and in addition if you do n't want to pay for that , you can bring your baggage on the tour and leave it on the shuttle bus . But talk to the airline , because you may just be able to check it right through and not worry about it .
Given that <URL> I 'd say that it would be perfectly legal for you to wear one on the plane regardless of which class you 're flying in . Worst case scenario you 'll get some looks from other passengers . Go ahead and fly comfortable .
United ( and many other airlines ) do this frequently for a number of reasons , including situations like yours . The simple answer is that yes , you have a " confirmed " reservation on both flights - but you only have a ticket on one . To understand exactly what they are doing you need to know the difference between a " reservation " and a " ticket " . A reservation is basically your booking record . It 's created when you first select your flights , but before you pay for them . It will include not only the flights that you 're currently booked on , but also things like waitlisted flights , etc. . Once a flight is added to your reservation in a " confirmed " status then basically a spot is reserved for you on that flight . However before you actually use that reservation you need to pay for it . When you do that , a " ticket " is issued , which includes details of the flights you are confirmed on . Historically this was a physical piece of paper , but now days it 's ( almost exclusively ) an electronic e-ticket . If , for example , you make a change to the reservation ( eg , you change to a different flight , or a waitlisted flight become available ) then this change is first done on the reservation , and then your ticket is " re-issued " or " exchanged " which historically was the act of you giving back your old ticket and being given a new one with the new details on it , but today is just a change in a record in a computer . Now , back to your question . What United will have done for you is to add a new flight to your reservation , which would have almost certainly have been in a " confirmed " status , but without removing the flight you 're currently booked ( and ticketed ) on . So at this stage you 're " confirmed " on both flights , but you only have a ticket for one of them . If you manage to make it to your original flight ( as you did ) then the extra segment on your confirmation will be canceled ( sometimes by an agent , sometimes automatically , or sometimes simply because a ticket was never issued for it by the time the flight was ready to leave ) , and it 's as if it never existed . However if you miss your original flight then the United agent will remove the segment you missed from the confirmation , and then re-issue the ticket without that segment , but now with the new Qantas segment . At this point you have a valid ticket for that new flight , so you 're ready to fly ! If you had attempted to view the reservation on the United website after the additional segment was added you would have seen both flights listed , along with a message that your reservation has been modified and that you should contacted United to have your ticket re-issued , which is an indication that your ticket did n't match your reservation ( in this case , as expected ! ) Depend on who you 're talking to this process can be referred to as " double-booked " ( as you have two bookings between the same locations on different flights ) , a " backup booking " , being " protected " on the later flight , or probably any of a dozen other terms . It 's a process I 've been through a lot , most recently last night due to a combination of delayed and overbooked flights !
At about mid summer in 2003 - the hottest summer ever recorded until then - we saw substantial quantities of snow on north facing slopes in Yosemite at around 3200 metres altitude . This was <URL> looking South East across Ellery Lake . As that was substantially lower than your 3900 metres , on a probably hotter year and close to midsummer , you 'd be wise to allow for snow as a distinct possibility , but not a certainty . In late June 2003 , the then hottest year on record , we travelled by car from Mono Lake into Yosemite . The road rises to around 9600 feet at the highest point at Ellery lake , and the road then remains at about that level for some miles . There was no snow immediately near the the road anywhere but when we got to Ellery Lake there were substantial amounts of snow on the slopes on the far side of the lake . These are more shadowed north side slopes rising to about 11,000 feet . Your 3,900 metre road is at 12,800 feet ( ! ) which is well above the level we saw snow at . Further into the park from Ellery lake the top map says " Closed winter " but the altitude is about the same as at Ellery Lake . Location <URL> - viewpoint and direction of view about right . Snow may hav ebeen somewhat higher up slope than shown . Photos available .
end question
start question
How long will my Schengen visa be valid for ?
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
Be exceptionally polite : ) It did the trick for us . We applied for a Russian single entry business visa in Mongolia , with a Dutch passport . I kept my mouth shut and my girlfriend did the smiling and talking . And no , I 'm not talking about a bribe . Paying money to get things done is something , I feel , should never be encouraged .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
The only time you 'd expect most stores to be closed is on december 24th at night . Other days you probably find local small restaurants to be closed , but those restaurant franchises at big malls or plazas are more likely to be open . I live in Monterrey , but I believe other mexican border cities are pretty much like this .
Since each of these countries would unilaterally decide whether they recognize Schengen visas and under which conditions , I do n't think it 's possible to find an official list anywhere . I am marking this answer as " community wiki " so that we can come up with a list : Bulgaria , Romania , Croatia and Cyprus ( all EU members ) have rules modelled on those of the Schengen area and allow holders of some types of Schengen visas to visit the country , see <URL> , <URL> and previous questions on this site , e.g. . <URL> Official sources are hard to come by but Albania apparently allow holders of multiple-entry Schengen visa who have already used their visa at least once to visit one of the countries of the Schengen Area , see <URL> and <URL> . Turkey provides some concessions to those that normally need visas . If you normally need a visa for Turkey , and you hold a Schengen visa - you may be able to avail the new electronic " e-visa " system . The list of countries whose citizens can avail this exemption <URL> . <URL> , multiple-entry Schengen visa holders can visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for 7 days . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Macedonia for 15 days ( with some caveats ) . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Serbia for 90 days . <URL> confirms that information . <URL> and <URL> , Mexico offers a visa exemption for 180 days to those holding a valid visa issued by " Canada , Japan , USA , United Kingdom or a Schengen Member State " ( this may be further restricted by nationality ) . <URL>
My wife is an immigration consultant with her own license in Canada . Here is what she said to me when I asked her to read your question of course he can just come in and visit temporarily . that 's nothing to do with his working holiday visa . he will only get a work permit upon entry when he shows his visa approval letter to the immigration officer . Every time when people enter canada , officer will ask for the purpose of this visit . Depending on the purpose , officer will decide if the person should be let in directly or directed to the immigraton office to get papers So you have got nothing to worry about , state your purpose clearly and there is no need to show your acceptance letter .
According to the <URL> , the phone has two versions : GSM 900 / 1800 GSM 850 / 1900 - US version Obviously you have the EU version ( GSM 900/1800 ) which will not work with the US networks which are ( GSM 850/1900 ) . For more information : <URL> .
No . It 's a Schengen visa , valid for the entire region , not just France . What 's more , they ca n't even track if you went to France or not , since there are no immigration controls within Schengen . All they know is the airport you enter and leave from . Of course , each time you enter Schengen , the immigration officer will most likely ask why you are visiting etc , and you will need to explain why -- but they 're only interested in whether you can afford to visit and whether you are going to return home .
The research you described falls under a type " D " ( national ) visa , but given that your stay is 4 months they have the OPTION of issuing a Schengen . In either case you can travel around the zone unless the visa itself shows a restriction ( which is rare ) . There 's no way of telling what the consulate will do , and you will know when you inspect the visa .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
Turkey and Armenia have strained relations for somewhat obvious reasons , but it 's not on the same level as , say , Israel and the Arab world . There have even been faltering moves in the last decade to try to heal the rift and ease towards increased trade , and where these have fallen down , it 's been as much to do with pressure on Turkey from Azerbaijan ( recently at war with Armenia and with an unresolved open conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh ) as direct emnity between Armenia and Turkey . Opposition to rebuilding trade with Turkey on the Armenian side is stronger from the ( influential ) Armenian diaspora than it is within unemployment-ravaged Armenia itself - it 's much easier to say " no compromise " when you 're the other side of the world to where the consequences are felt . For example , <URL> : Turkey has canceled the first ever scheduled Turkish flights to its long-time rival Armenia , days before the first plane was due to take off , officials have said , following fierce opposition from Turkey 's ally and energy partner Azerbaijan . The twice-weekly flights between Turkey 's eastern city of Van and the Armenian capital Yerevan were due to begin on April 3 and , encouraged by a U.S. push for rapprochement , were meant to boost bilateral tourism and trade . It 's possible to book flights from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Russia , usually ) , and buses from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Georgia ) . Of course it 's always possible you might encounter a particularly partisan individual border guard , who might use it as an excuse to make a fuss or try to obtain a bribe , but the airport is generally pretty professional by the standards of the region - when this sort of thing happens , it tends to be on the land border with Georgia . Such ( relatively rare ) situations can usually be resolved by staying calm , avoiding confrontation , and if necessary saying something like " I 'm sorry , I do not understand . May I speak to your supervisor ? " . In extreme cases , I 've heard stories of people turning such situations around with a disparaging comment or vulgar joke about the country that is the source of the anger , but for ethical reasons it 's best not to stoke and legitimatise this kind of nationalism unless you feel genuinely in danger and there 's no obvious alternative . I 've not known anyone feel the need to resort to this travelling into Armenia having travelled in Turkey , and definitely not in the airport - in fact , I think the incident I 'm thinking of , they were travelling into Azerbaijan having travelled in Armenia . The wounds from the Armenian-Azeri war are much fresher and more raw in the Caucasus itself than those between Armenia and Turkey . You wo n't need to do anything like this in the airport in Yerevan .
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
It seems reapplying is one option . Since rebooking the flight is much costlier than reapplying , I am going to reapply . EDIT : - I reapplied following exactly same procedure as I did the first time . Got a call from British Consulate , NY as to why I am applying again when I already have visa . I explained the reason and that person was okay with that . Got approval email a couple of hours later . My UPS package has already started from there and should be here tomorrow morning . In the end , saved more than a grand ! It was worth the effort .
If your mother does not have something to show for socio-professional , she can still submit documents on the strength of her social standing ( i.e. , the ' socio ' part of socio-professional ) . Examples would include , her marriage certificate , church/religious memberships , other memberships and affiliations that demonstrate an engagement with society . A reference from the family doctor might be helpful , but should n't be seen as required . Since she is applying as part of a family group , it is unlikely to make a big difference either way . They are aware that not every applicant has formal credentials and as long as the primary is acceptable they will normally grant the dependant relatives a visa also .
I was in the Dolomites late April / early May 2003 . In the lower valleys , it 's essentially summer . Places like Bozen/Bolzano can be well over 20 ° C and reaching 30 ° C . If you 're fine hiking in the valleys , you 'll have no problem at all . Higher land will be covered in snow . You wo n't be able to hike there . Where the snow starts varies on the slope and the season . You might find patches of snow below 1600 metre , or you might find that you can hike well above 2000 metre . 2003 had an extremely warm spring , so snow was mostly gone . You should not expect any fresh snowfall in May . In summary , May is a good time to hike in the Dolomites , just do n't expect you can do the hikes you would do in summer . Details will vary from year to year .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
I just found the right tool for you <URL> , it does exactly what you want , it shows the path along with the day/night status in the exact position of the aircraft . It is a Windows Application ( from the days they used to call it program ) , click on the menu . Here is a screenshot ( the large red dot is the plane ) : And to answer the first part , you will have the sunrise above the ocean , the sunset somewhere above eastern Africa . Disclaimer : I am not the owner of the tool , I found it by searching , I scanned it and it seemed fine . Use it at your own risk .
The French Consulate web site says the working holiday visa takes an average of 2 weeks , but 1 week is generally ok . We have an applicant of our <URL> program applying tomorrow , so will let you know the latest processing time . The quickest time this year has been 3 days , but it does vary .
One option you have is to find a shopping mall or a supermarket that offers a photo booth . For instance , in the UK there is a chain called <URL> that sets up such booths in major shopping areas , and where you can get ' correct size ' pictures printed for visas . On a per picture basis this is an expensive option but nothing beats its ease-of-use . A more DIY method is to use an online service - there are many ; <URL> being one of the major ones - where you can upload a digital picture taken by yourself and then it formats the picture into the correct size for a passport / visa for a given country as multiples on standard photo printing sizes that are supported by photo print shops . You can either get this printed directly by them ( this is how they make money ) or just download the file and take it to a print shop at your convenience . The site also provides guidance on photo requirements ( such as glasses on/off , etc ) .
I was on a train with a Canadian who experienced this . We left Irkutsk , Russia heading towards Ulan Bator , Mongolia on the ... let 's say Tuesday , the last day of his visa . Seemed ok , but we did n't actually cross the border until early on the Wednesday . The result - he was a few hours over his visa . The security and passport people came on the train , took our passports , and announced - " there is problem " . He was whisked off the train , and we debated dividing up his stuff - there 'd been no indication what was going to happen . A couple of hours later ( we were at the border for ages ) he returned . He 'd been fined for overstaying , and apparently there 's a base fine , and an additional fine per day over . Plus a mark in his passport for overstaying , if I recall correctly . You wo n't get stuck in Russia . But you will get in trouble . Get an earlier bus , or if you can , adjust your visa . Either way , do n't overstay .
end question
start question
What techniques , tricks or otherwise have you used to get upgrades on flights ?
Probably not the answer you were hoping for , but I think the best way to get upgraded is to fly a lot with the airline . Generally when the flight 's overbooked in one class , and they 're trying to pick which person to upgrade , frequent flyer status is the first metric they use . The higher your status , the higher up the list you go ! Having a high status with a partner airline can work too , high tiers with a partner airline usually comes below the airline 's own frequent flyers , but above everyone else . Otherwise , if you 're flying on your own that 'll help in the event that there are n't enough frequent flyer to upgrade to free the required number of seats ! Being polite and smartly dressed can help . Offering to pay may be an option too - if they 're pretty full they may offer you a low price to upgrade , on the grounds that some money from you is better than none from a free upgrade to frequent traveller . Ask at checkin about that , and see what they say . If you have a title , make sure that 's on your booking . Friends of mine who are doctors seem to get upgraded more than ones who are n't , and the airline need n't know that you happen to be a Doctor of 14th century poetry or astrophysics , rather than a medical one ! In general though , the busier the flight , the more likely an upgrade . There are a few airlines that 'll upgrade people to fill a higher cabin , but most these days will only do it when a cabin is full . A different option is to volunteer to be bumped off a very full flight , but upgraded on the next one they put you onto . I know Delta to that for an example , but I think it 's a fairly general possibility . Does require a very busy original flight though , and the airline really wanting people to opt not to fly !
I will be travelling around many Western European countries which I expect to not have these sorts of experiences . Actually , <URL> .
As to the reason for the name , from the <URL> : Each upgrade is valid for 500 miles of travel . Each flight segment requires at least one upgrade . Thus , if you wish to upgrade your seat on a flight which is 1500 miles long , you would need to use three of these 500-mile upgrades .
The <URL> states ( under " Online check-in " - > " Conditions " ) : Non EU/EEA passengers must proceed to the Wizz Air check-in desk for document check before proceeding through security to departure . Failure to do so may result in travel being denied . No exception is mentioned for intra-Schengen flights .
The short answer is that , in my experience , Delta is more likely to reward you on the back-end than with discounts at purchase . By that , I mean , you will earn status through miles travelled , which in turn earns you things like free upgrades and additional flexibility when traveling . Here 's what I would do ( keeping in mind that I 'm a little bit obsessive when it comes to booking travel ) ... Research the cost of booking four different ways : Normal return routing ( i.e. , MSP-PHX-MSP ) . Reverse return routing ( i.e. , MSP-PHX 1w , then PHX-MSP , then PHX-MSP 1w ) . Multi-segment routing in different combinations ( i.e. , booking multiple round-trips in a single booking ) . If your schedule ( and patience ) allows for it , also look at connecting flights like MSP-DTW-PHX or MSP-SLC-PHX ( not sure if those routes actually exist , but when you bounce through a secondary hub , you sometimes can get a better price ) . This would add several more hours to each trip , which may be a huge hassle , and not worth it . I 've also found that when I 've booked this way , occasionally , the agent will offer to change my flight to a direct one for free when I check-in if there are any overbooking , weather , or other issues . You may be able to get a better price by booking it one of these ways . MSP is a major hub for Delta , so you 're probably paying a premium for that ( their ticket structure gives preference to tickets booked THROUGH major hubs , not originating/arriving at , in my experience ) . Do you currently have status with DL ? If so , try calling the Premium Sales/Service line , and explain the situation to them . I 've never had much luck , but they will try to help you . It also helps to call during an off-hour . Another option would be to stop in to one of the MSP airport SkyClubs ( PHX does n't have one , if I remember correctly ) . They 're usually much more helpful face-to-face . I remember back when you could actually walk in to a city Delta ticket office ... those days are long gone . Whatever else you do , make sure you also sign up for SkyBonus - <URL> , if this is for business ( and your company does n't already have a travel arrangement in place with Delta ) . You 'll need your corporation 's Federal ID to sign up . It lets you " double-dip " in a way on earning miles ... SkyMiles are yours , but SkyBonus miles become your company 's . Both are valid for travel ( under different schemes ) . Aside from Delta , you 've got a few options : Frontier Airlines ( connecting in Denver ) . Smaller , so you may have better luck negotiating a better price . US Airways . I personally decided to never fly them a few years ago ( very bad repeated experiences with them ) , but I do know people who do n't mind flying them . Southwest . They fly between MSP and PHX . Their " coach " product seems to be less expensive , and their " business " product seems to be only slightly more than competitive coach . It still feels like being on a bus , though .
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
If the airline can make any claim of weather , traffic , or any sort of delay out of their control , then you have <URL> . Sometimes they will offer hotel vouchers for overnight delays , but in my experience this is almost exclusively when it is due to mechanical problems with their equipment . Even if the delays are due to problems on their end , there is no regulation requiring them to compensate you . The only time you are due compensation is when you are bumped from a flight for overbooking . However , sometimes airlines may be willing to endorse transfers to other airlines , particularly in the case of flight cancellations . This is , however , entirely at their discretion . If they are not willing to work with you , there could actually be additional charges for cancellations .
The Wrekin in Shropshire ... Shropshire , Staffordshire , Lancashire , Gloucestershire , West Midlands , with Greater Manchester County if you count it as distinct from Lancashire . The Wrekin / ˈriːkɨn / is a hill in east Shropshire , England . It is located some 7 km ( 4.3 mi ) west of Telford , on the border between the unitary authorities of Shropshire and Telford and Wrekin . Rising to a height of 407 metres ( 1,335 ft ) above the Shropshire Plain , it is a prominent and well-known landmark , signalling the entrance to Shropshire for travelers westbound on the M54 motorway . [ 1 ] The Wrekin is contained within the northern panhandle of the Shropshire Hills AONB . The hill is popular with walkers and tourists and offers good views of Shropshire . It can be seen well into Staffordshire and the Black Country , and even as far as the Beetham Tower in Manchester , Winter Hill in Lancashire and Cleeve Hill in Gloucestershire . <URL> Traditionally ( i.e. , as a matter of local folklore ) , the peak gives views of 17 counties , but they are not authoritatively enumerated like the Wiki ... Like the Snowdon claim , the seventeen counties assertion has appeared in numerous guidebooks and magazine articles since 1860 and persists up to the present day . On the website answerbank ( an online version of the traditional Notes and Queries format ; see www.theanswerbank.co.uk ) one contributor in June 2008 posed the question ' What are the seventeen counties that can be seen from the Wrekin in Shropshire ? ' . <URL>
Three approaches : choose an airline that has in-seat power . get a sheet battery - the one I have for my Windows laptop adds another 7 hours or so - that attaches to the laptop and does n't look external , so you can use it in place get an external battery and take a break for a little while to let it do its charging under your seat or somewhere the crew ca n't see it , then remove it and go back to working My old laptop used to trip the breakers on planes if I tried to both use it and charge it , so I 'd use it a while , close the lid , plug it in and set it aside while I ate or whatever , then pick it up and work again . And yes , I choose my work wisely . If I 'm rendering video then my 9 hours of battery life will disappear in an hour or two . Still I occasionally render video on planes anyway . External battery packs for Macs surely exist . <URL> and <URL> . It says 32 hours for MBA , and 8 for MBP . That should help . And in a pinch , you might even carry two :-)
Any government issued ID should be fine , but PAN or passport is the most widely used . You will need to display the ID at airport security as well as the airline check in counter .
According to my friend from Fergana The Teas that they used to drink were primarily of 2 varieties : Green : <URL> Black : <URL> ( The One at the top ) The current tastes and varieties may vary and though the ceremonies remain the same . If you are ever in New York City you can visit Rego Park in Queens where there is a lot of people from former Central Asian Republics ( Primarily Uzbekistan ) that can probably give you a better view on the modern varietals of teas being used and there are traditions on brewing tea that vary from family to family and area to area and not just in additives .
Given that it 's <URL> , it 's actually kind of hard to find restaurants serving roast lamb , presumably because it 's slow to cook and rather expensive these days ( lamb prices have more than doubled in the last few years ) . Lamb shanks , on the other hand , feature on the menu of virtually every casual eatery in Australia . ( Sunday roast with lamb , by <URL> ) But the best place to look is definitely a pub , aka " hotel " in Australian . The British " Sunday roast " survives in Australia as well and a great many , but by no means all , hotels put on Sunday roasts that often feature lamb . Here 's a <URL> in Sydney from Time Out , although you 'll note that not all are lamb and many are " continental " rather than Australian/British in style , because Sydney 's a bit too hip that . And here 's <URL> of more classically English-style roasts , although again , many seem to focus on beef . " Clubs " , the odd Australian institution of gambling joints thinly disguised as sporting or veterans ' clubs , also frequently offer Sunday roasts , but the quality of the food tends to be disappointing . ( I 'm painting with a broad brush here , and there are exceptions both ways . ) ( Traditional Argentinian Carne al asador , by <URL> ) All that said , the best lamb in Australia I 've had was grilled by my Argentinian ex-boss , and the 2nd best is served at Argentinian joint <URL> in Surrey Hills , Sydney . The process of roasting it crucified on a metal stake looks a bit like something out of a horror film , but hot diggity dog is it good . Probably not quite what you were looking for , but hey , multiculturalism is also very Australian these days ;)
<URL> it 's rare to get automatic transmissions in Brazil , or that when the companies do have them , they 're regularly more expensive . Your best bet is to contact the company before you get to Brazil ( from comments of yours on other questions I gather you 've booked through Modiva ) , and find out if you can reserve one . I suspect they 'll be getting similar questions from others , especially from the US , so should be able to clarify .
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
You did n't specify a locale , but within the United States , the answer depends a bit on when and where you are picking the car up and when and where you are dropping it off . Shopping around The obvious first step is to search as broadly as possible and to be as flexible as possible . Compare rates at Kayak , VroomVroomVroom , and other comparison sites . Planning the trip Sometimes , the length of the trip factors into the calculation . A few years ago , I rented a car in Binghamton , NY and drove up to Watertown for a 3-day trip . I then needed to drive to Washington , DC and was quoted something exhorbitant for the 4-day , 1-way rental . After talking with the agent over the phone , however , I " returned " the car to Binghamton on the way down and made a second rental -- in fact , the identical vehicle ; I never even took out my bags . In other words , instead of a 4-day 1-way trip , it was a 3-day return and a 1-day 1-way trip , and that saved me almost a third . Yet I have also heard anecdotally of the reverse , where a 2-day 1-way gets a $ 300 surcharge and the 3-day 1-way does not . Enterprise and perhaps some other agencies only charge the one-way fee if the drop-off location is more than 500 miles from the pickup location . In still other cases , you may be exempt if renting from corporate-owned locations but not from franchises . You will need to do some research on your own whether the cost advantages of renting from a neighborhood location ( namely avoiding airport surcharges and taxes ) outweigh the disadvantage of paying the one-way charge . One-way specials The major rental agencies offer one-way deals as they try to redistribute cars around the country to meet demand . In particular , cars accumulate in warm-weather states in the winter , so in the springtime you 'll often find huge discounts if you pick up in Florida or Arizona and drop off in the Northeast or Midwest ( Hertz for several years has offered $ 5/day to take a compact from Arizona and drop it off in California , Colorado , or a few other states ) . Check the specials pages on their websites . Note that the deal usually applies to only certain types of vehicles and to certain locations , mostly airport locations in major cities . For Australia , Canada , New Zealand , and the US , try searching on auto relocation agency sites like iMoova and TransferCar for current offerings . Some agencies may not charge a one-way fee if the travel is between airport locations entirely within a few large states , such as California or Florida , where there is a healthy circulation of vehicles . You are less likely to find such deals from neighborhood locations or from smaller agencies , because they have smaller fleets with higher utilization and are thus less " liquid " with their cars . Fee-free rate codes Some contract rates or coupons waive the drop-off fee , as various organizations negotiate special rates on behalf of their sales staff or other traveling employees . You can find many lists of such rate and coupon codes on the Internet ; however , you may be asked to demonstrate that you qualify for the particular rate , and in some cases , you must present a physical coupon . Driveaways A driveaway is not a traditional rental car ; instead , you are transporting a car on behalf of its owner from one location to another . In essence , you are a delivery service . Companies like <URL> can help set you up with a car . As might be expected , however , there are significant differences from a traditional rental car . On the one hand , you may get a newer , cleaner , or fancier car , as well as save a lot of money . On the other hand , you will face a high deposit , time and mileage limits , and restrictions such as no eating , no nighttime driving , or no using the trunk . Finally , in some cases there is simply no possibility . I know of no agency that will be happy if you rent from Fairbanks , Alaska and return to Seattle , because there are so few cars that will be dropped off in Fairbanks . Specialty cars ( sports cars , convertibles , etc. ) also tend to be excluded from deals , because they do not circulate as freely and because their patrons are less price-sensitive . International rentals are also tricky . I know anecdotally that trying to rent a car in Western Europe and return it in Eastern Europe is a daunting prospect . Laws can trip you up ; for example , Canadians can not drive a U.S.-registered rental over the border due to import laws ( although they can rent a Canadian-registered vehicle in the U.S. and drive it cross-border ) .
Low-cost airlines operate on a model called ' <URL> ' , one implication of which is that every single leg of your journey is a separate one . As <URL> , some LCCs refer to ' hubs ' and in fact many of them ( especially Asian ones ) do operationally maintain hubs , but that 's for their own logistics handling . For customer , most LCCs issue a disclaimer along the following lines in their terms and conditions ( following taken from <URL> ) : If you have booked an onward flight with easyJet , this represents a separate contract . Please note that easyJet does not operate a connecting flight service , where you choose to book such an onward flight this will be considered to be a separate Journey and therefore you will need to check-in with your luggage for each Journey in accordance with the check-in requirements below . Consequently we advise that when booking an onward flight with easyJet , you allow at least two hours between the scheduled time of arrival of the incoming flight , and the scheduled time of departure of the onward flight . They also given good advice on what you should do in case you do plan to book flights on multiple carriers : leave enough of a gap between them . If you get travel insurance , check whether it covers missing connecting flights as grounds for compensation claim . easyJet also offers a premium rate flight fare called ' Flexi ' and they <URL> . At higher rate ' Flexi ' fares you are n't charged booking fees and are free to make changes to your flight dates within a specified period , but the fares are also higher so in some situations you might just find booking Flex-fare priced tickets the same as buying tickets from a full-cost airline !
Yes , you can , but only via Iceland . There are no non-stop or direct flights from the US to Greenland . To Iceland : <URL> serves several US destinations year-round from Reykjavik 's Keflavik International Airport , including : Boston Denver New York-JFK Seattle Also , these destinations seasonally : Anchorage ( summer ) Minneapolis ( summer ) Washington D.C. ( summer ) Orlando-Sanford ( winter ) Also , <URL> flies from New York-JFK to Reykjavik in the summer . Iceland to Greenland : From Reykjavik 's Keflavik International Airport , <URL> serves Nuuk . From Reykjavik Airport ( primarily a domestic airport ) , <URL> serves these destinations in Greenland : Nuuk Kulusuk Island Neerlerit Inaat Enjoy your trip !
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
No . The only way to get from one terminal to another is to exit the terminal and take the air train or a shuttle bus . A possible exception to this is for Delta , which operates in Terminals 2 and 4 . They apparently have a bus that connects the airside areas of these terminals . See the map here : <URL> Indications are that this bus will disappear at some point , presumably when construction of a direct link between the two areas has been completed .
end question
start question
Large tech allowed on Intl. flight ?
When I travel between Ireland and the USA about five times a year , I carry with me in carry-on luggage : A 17 " laptop An iPad An Android tablet Two or three mobile phones Cables for the above A USB power block A small power bank ( not 16000mAh , though ) And I 've never had a problem .
There are limits that were introduced by the <URL> . Those have been used as well by numerous other airlines , for example <URL> . They generally impose a limit on capacity per passenger and on top of this disallow checking them in , so you must take them into your hand luggage . If a website lists grams of Lithium , use this formula ( <URL> ) : Equivalent Lithium Content ( ELC ) . ELC is a measure by which lithium ion batteries are classified . You can arrive at the number of watt-hours your battery provides if you know how many milliamp hours and volts your battery provides : mAh/1000 x V = wh There is additional information available from the <URL> and the <URL> . Some more information here from Thailand , as of Jan 2015 ( sorry , a bit shaky ) L Essentially , anything above 32 ' 000 mAh is forbidden , below that and above 20 ' 000 mAh is limited to 2 per person , below that there are no limits , but all only in hand luggage .
In general , as long as the box meets the size and weight restrictions for carry-on luggage , you can bring it into the cabin . Luggage restrictions generally do not concern the material from which the luggage is made .
Turkish Airlines published a notice on their website regarding this very issue . Unfortunately the link is currently down ( probably due to the large load ) , but here is a <URL> : <URL> Dear Passengers , Due to the incident that has taken place at Ataturk International Airport on 28 June 2016 , passengers who have bookings on the flights from/to and connected Istanbul Ataturk Airport between 28 Jun - 05 Jul 2016 , provided that they submit their request until 31 Jul 2016 : 1 ) All rebooking and rerouting will be made without any charge . 2 ) Refund requests : a ) Unused tickets : Refund will be made without any charge ; or b ) For partially used tickets , when planned trip is not complete ; the remaining flights will be refunded without any charge . 3 ) Extension of ticket validity : Validity of ticket can be extended until 31 Jul 2016 ( included ) without any fare difference or charge . We kindly ask our passengers to check the latest information about their flights before their trip on our web site or call center . ( 90 212 444 0 849 ) Regards Turkish Airlines Unfortunately this does not apply to you as you are traveling in August . Even if it did apply in your situation , you would have a difficult time getting any recourse from Turkish Airlines as the ticket was purchased through a third party . Thus , your only recourse is to ask flighthub.ca for a refund , and <URL> : The majority of airline reservations booked in economy class are non-refundable and non exchangeable . In some cases an airline may issue a credit voucher in lieu of a cash refund , which can be used for future travel with that airline . Please be aware that these vouchers are usually valid for one year from the date the original ticket was issued . In the event where the ticket you purchased is refundable it will be subject to penalties imposed by the airline as well as a processing fee by FlightHub . Any cancellations will be handled on the day the request was made . Please note that any refunds can take as long as 6 weeks to appear on your credit card statement .
Immigration officials should not really care either way , you are simply supposed not to exceed the validity of your visa . They would not care on entry , you have a visa that 's valid for the trip you planned and it make little sense to require more than that . But if you do n't make it in time , they wo n't care much that you had no buffer either , i.e. that 's not an excuse and that would not necessarily protect you from negative consequences . If you are forced to exit a day or two late , I would expect most border guards to let it slip as described by @happysathya , i.e. not bother with formally finding you in breach and imposing a fine . But you would still have an exit stamp in your passport that shows you have technically overstayed and consulates might take that into account the next time you apply for a visa . One final tip : If something serious and unexpected happens ( health issue , <URL> ) , do approach the authorities yourself to request an extension of your visa . They have the power to grant one in force majeure cases and the more forthcoming and proactive you are , the less likely you are to suffer any negative consequences .
There are limits that were introduced by the <URL> . Those have been used as well by numerous other airlines , for example <URL> . They generally impose a limit on capacity per passenger and on top of this disallow checking them in , so you must take them into your hand luggage . If a website lists grams of Lithium , use this formula ( <URL> ) : Equivalent Lithium Content ( ELC ) . ELC is a measure by which lithium ion batteries are classified . You can arrive at the number of watt-hours your battery provides if you know how many milliamp hours and volts your battery provides : mAh/1000 x V = wh There is additional information available from the <URL> and the <URL> . Some more information here from Thailand , as of Jan 2015 ( sorry , a bit shaky ) L Essentially , anything above 32 ' 000 mAh is forbidden , below that and above 20 ' 000 mAh is limited to 2 per person , below that there are no limits , but all only in hand luggage .
Well , I got an answer back from Singapore Airlines . They responded from twitter : Hi Jason , it is advised that you use the ones on board due to safety concerns , thank you very much .
There seems to be no limit as such . However if you carry more than 10 ' 000 $ , you <URL> depending on the country . For example in <URL> , you are to declare it when orally asked to do so . For the <URL> on the other hand , there seems to be no need to do so . So if you consider taking more than 10 ' 000 $ , you should check the rules for the specific country you are flying to .
Oh this is mine . Firstly , you 'll want the flight path . This is <URL> , provided they stick to it . <URL> . This is correct . I 'll now explain why . As you can see from the map , you fly over water a bit , down the coast . The only visible land is to your left . So initially , you definitely want the left . Then you 'll cross over part of the Taranaki coast out by New Plymouth . If you 're lucky , you 'll have a clear view of Mt Taranaki / Egmont . If it passes slightly more inland , to your LEFT again , you may have a view of volcanoes Ruapehu ( erupted in 1997 ) Ngauruhoe and Tongariro . You may recognise Mt Doom from Lord of the Rings ;) Further south you may get a glimpse of Wellington , before crossing Cook Strait and seeing the beautiful Marlborough Sounds , or if slightly further west - Golden Bay and Farewell Spit . Then the best part starts - the South Island and the imposing Southern Alps . There 's some snow at all times of the year , but it does n't matter when - they 're stunning to see and fly over . You 'll also get to see the amazing lakes - Tekapo , Pukaki , Hawea and Wanaka , and finally Wakatipu - the lake alongside the alpine city of Queenstown . With the Remarkables range in the background , this setting is spectacular , and initially the left side is best , although the plane will then turn in towards the airport . And then you 'll have the final approach . One of the most amazing approaches you 'll ever do by air - flying between the mountains ( with no radar , btw ) and down to the little airport , 10 min outside of Queenstown . At this point LEFT or RIGHT is fine - it 's spectacular both ways , and the plane usually circles once before going in . Finally , touchdown ! Welcome to Queenstown . Do n't forget to Bungy jump ;) EDIT And naturally , flying back up to Auckland , you 'll want to sit on the right hand side for this scenery . However for the South Island part , either side is spectacular - it 's just the North Island that the left pretty much just looks over ocean ...
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
GPS devices do not have an active transmitter ( for devices that do n't go online to fetch map data , that is ) ; they work by calculating time signals broadcast at low power by a constellation of satellites . Since there 's no active transmitter and GPS signals are broadcast anyway ( modern aircraft navigation systems do use GPS onboard ) , a watch or a camera technically can not cause interference at all .
No , driving for women in Saudi Arabia is not allowed regardless of the nationality . What bothers me is , there is no clear rule in Saudi regarding driving for women , it is just not allowed ! someone came up with this idea years ago and this idea still rules ! that 's why the police gets confused when they have a case about this , they do not know what to do ! anyway things are heading to the right direction and hopefully soon this non-sense will stop and everyone can drive . FYI , women who live in small villages in the desert do drive !
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
You got it wrong , there are few types of outlets onboard airplanes : Utility outlets : They are used by the ground/fleet services to clean the aircraft on ground prior to passengers boarding . Usually it will be used for strong vacuum cleaners which requires higher voltage/frequency and can damage electronics not designed for these outlets . This is the type mentioned in the paragraph you quoted above . Shavers outlets : These are found in lavatories , they are designed for electronic shavers and can be used only for shavers . In-seat outlets : These are embedded in the passengers seats and are designed to be used with personal carry on electronics ( laptops , phone chargers ... etc ) . Usually they are deactivated during boarding , take offs and landings and activated during cruise only . This is what you should use and it is available in most major airlines including Cathay Pacific . Also it is mentioned in the <URL> : In-seat power will soon be available across our entire fleet for the devices mentioned above . These in-seat power ratings are however not designed for use with medical devices such as CPAP machines . Passengers must provide their own batteries that are sufficient to power medical portable electronic devices .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
It is not a pleasant situation for both of them - the passenger or the large passenger . It is very uncomfortable for the passenger and totally embarrassing for the large guy . In addition to that , it is uncomfortable and embarrassing for the staff . Unfortunately , there is no one single rule that applies here ; each airline has its own policy regarding this . What you should do before the flight takes off If the large person 's body is invading your space and you have noticed this during boarding , make sure to speak to one of the cabin crew members immediately . Make it their problem . You are paying for a seat and it is your right to get a full seat , not a part of one . Remember , the only time you can report this case is on the ground . It is the perfect time for crew or ground staff to find another seat either for you or for the large person , or to find another solution in the case that there are no spare seats . Once the doors are closed and the plane is moving without you talking about it , you have given complicit agreement to this situation and no one can do much about it in most cases . What the staff will do This depends on the airline . Some airlines make large people pay ; some others upgrade large people to business or first class for free as a part of their services ( the airline I work for does this if no two seats are available in economy class ) . You could get lucky and get moved to a higher class and leave your seat for the other passenger . Either way , your problem should be solved before the plane takes off . Things to keep in mind This is an odd and embarrassing situation . Make sure to talk in private with the cabin crew to avoid embarrassing the sized passenger publicly . Depending on the airline , the sized passenger can be deplaned from the airplane or asked to pay for an extra seat . You may also be asked if you would like to wait for another flight ! Anything is possible if no extra seats are available .
<URL> Just choose the Whole Month as departure and arrival date . You will be presented with a graphic in which you can pick the departure date , the arrival calendar will update accordingly .
In general it is allowed to volunteer in the US when you are there on a B1 or B2 visa , or on visa waiver program , and for most other visas that do not permit paid employment . However there are some significant restrictions , and it is best to check them out . The most significant restriction is that you can only volunteer to do things that are normally done on a voluntary basis , i.e. without pay . So for example you could volunteer at a hospital as a <URL> because that is a volunteer position , and you would be working alongside other unpaid volunteers . You could not do the work of a nurse even if you volunteered to do it unpaid because a nurse is normally a paid position . You also ca n't do " anything that would benefit a commercial enterprise " , and there are restrictions on things like unpaid internships . However assuming that the Planetary Society of Pasadena is a not-for-profit you should be fine . Here are some references : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
The majority of US made cars have an automatic transmission as standard equipment . Manual transmissions are available but usually by special order . Car rental companies in the US tend to buy cars with automatics , since that is the preference of US drivers . And while yes there are European tourists who rent cars in the US and prefer manual transmissions , they are really just a small percentage of the rental customers . The reverse was true for many years in Europe in that only manual transmissions were available and Americans traveling in Europe had no choice but to drive a stick . There are some smaller rental companies that may offer manual transmissions at some locations or on some models , but at airport rental locations , it is usually the biggest companies and they pretty much offer automatics .
After visiting Grjótagjá , I 'm able to respond my own question since @MikkaRin answer is not as complete as it should be . When you arrive to Grjótagjá you find these panel : It 's self-explanatory : " The public is prohibited from bathing or use of caves for purposes other than for inspection and photography " . Given this , it states that the temperature is between 43 and 46 degrees , over the <URL> ( that is near 42ºC ) . Also , the panel warns about the possibility of falling rocks and leaves at your own risk the entry . So if with all this you still want to bathe , is possible ? Yes . When we first stayed there , nobody was watching the site and a couple of islanders ( probably , not confirmed ) were leaving the site after bathing . The next morning , when we returned to make some photos with natural light , nobody was at this area . What happen if you bathe ? I confess we bathed . We made a flexible interpretation of the panel : we can bathe here if we have a photographic purpose . Also , we thought that we ca n't have any problem with the owner of the land or the authorities ( because we stayed just 30 minutes , nobody guarding and other people were bathing here before we arrive ) and we thought the probability of failing rocks were very low . The big problem was the water temperature . It 's very hot , hotter than I have ever tried ( in Budapest I could stay 15 minutes without any problem in a 42ºC hot tub ) . I had to go out after 10 minutes and other friends could n't ever stay more than 5 minutes . After bathing , you have to dry up very fast or you will start to shiver and start feeling sick ( it happened to 2 of 5 persons in the group ) .
end question
start question
What are the weather conditions in Macedonia in May ?
Daytime temperatures are around 10-20 ° C which seems good for hiking ( up to 23 ° C in Tetovo ) . Nighttime temperatures can drop down to 0-5 ° C . You could get some rain and thunderstorms during a day but also few sunny days in a row ... If you go hiking for a week in April/May , you are pretty likely to get 1 to 3 days with some rain . Temperatures source : <URL>
On top of what has been written by @toy and @user34936 , which I can support 100 % , I would like to give you the following advice : When traveling to remoter areas in Asia ( I would count Laos into that ) , and specially if you do not do so frequently ( several times a year ) , you are risking to get Diarrhea as a minimum and intestinal parasites as a worst case scenario where you run risk of severe organ damage in the long run . While the risk is , as mentioned , highest in India , there are 2 levels of caution that go along with the amount of inconvenience you have to face to execute them : Easiest level , should prevail in most developing countries in Asia , can be ignored in Japan , mostly also in Hong Kong &amp; Singapore for example : Do not drink Tap water Do not rinse your mouth with tap water after brushing your teeth ( sounds stupid , but you always ingest some of it , and if you follow step 1 , this is a direct consequence . That 's why a lot of hotels in Asia have small bottles of water now standing next to the sink instead of in the room ) Do not eat cold street food , specially fruits , ice cream etc. . Next level , should be observed in any remote , rural area of the developing countries outside of international hotel chains and in almost all of India : Do not eat any uncooked food , such as salads Do not eat unpeeled fruits and do never eat water melons . They are sometimes injected with water to make them heavier . Do not eat anything that has to have a consistent cooling chain without unfreezing such as ice cream , imported fish etc. . Basically do not eat anything that is not served by established restaurants or hotels that you would find in a tourist guide . be very careful with ice cubes . Rather drink what has been cooled in a closed container such as cans &amp; bottles than ice cubes . The issue here is that you have to decide how much you want to reduce your flexibility in the country to avoid a light diarrhea and how much experience you have when traveling across the world in remote places . You body will build up resistance against a lot of bacteria types if ingested in small quantities . However I know a person who lived in China and other places such as Hong Kong for all their life who got a parasite in India that caused a almost 100 % kidney failure and repeated operations over the following years . Also : While asking for bottled water might become quickly expensive since the hotels try to sell you Perrier etc , asking specifically for local bottled water is often a safe but very cheap alternative . Also consider that Diarrhea as such might not bother you too much , but dehydration and other consequences of that issue might cause more trouble that might severely disrupt the trip for you .
As a Spanish citizen , one does not seem to need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . The <URL> has a very strange page saying first " VISA REQUIREMENT BY COUNTRY , please click the following websites , www.imi.gov.my or www.kln.gov.my " , &amp; then displaying information about " SINGLE ENTRY VISA VALID FOR 14 OR 30 DAYS " . I chose to ignore the last info &amp; go to the <URL> which is the website of the Immigration Department in Malaysia . The <URL> does not mention Spain as one of the nationalities when a visa is needed . The only conclusion I can draw is that Spanish nationals do n't need a visa for Malaysia . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
Data via cellphone is one of <URL> . Vendors are shifting from 3G to 4G , starting in the area around Montevideo . From a consumer 's standpoint the only discouraging trend in this market is the adoption of data volume caps by all vendors . As of August 2012 no vendor web-site offered an unlimited mobile internet data plan ( the closest was an " unlimited during nights and weekends " from Claro . ) In terms of prepaid data plans , there are several available , from Claro , Antel or Movistar . I wo n't copy and paste verbatim as I 'm sure they 're likely to change with time , but an up-to-date wiki is maintained at <URL> on APNCharger.org .
Well this is purely anecdotal but I spent about a week in the Republic of Macedonia , mostly in Skopje but also in Ohrid . I never saw or head of an ATM that offered withdrawal in Euros as well as Denar so I have to assume no .
If you are a tourist , the state of emergency may not affect your stay in France expect if matches or stages are cancelled for security reasons . On the other hand , if you are a hooligan , the state of emergy can become your worst nghtmare : avoid France ! You can find the law describing the consequences of the state of emergency of the website <URL> . The law " Loi n ° 55-385 du 3 avril 1955 relative à l'état d'urgence " extends the power of the Department of Homeland Security " Ministère de l'interieur " and chiefs of police " prefet " . In the end , the consequences of the state of emergency are in the hands of the french Departement of Homeland Security . Motiviations to take actions are security and order , and tourists are warmly welcomed in France , including football fans and cyclists . Yet , the state of emergency can be used against holligans or can affect the pleasure of sport fans as matches or stages of the Tour de France could be suppressed as a collateral damage of threats to security and fear of terrorism . Among the possible consequences of the state of emergency for foreign tourits attending sport events : Article 5 : restriction of circulation of people and vehicules in particular areas , restricted areas Article 8 : concert halls , bars and any meeting places ( including stadiums ) can be closed by the local chief of police or the head of Homeland Security . Any meeting which can affect security can be prohibited . Article 6 : If there are serious reasons to suspect that someone threaten security or order , this man can be assigned to residence by the head of Homeland Security . His passport and id card can be withdrawn , in which case a temporary paper is issued as id . For the moment , these prerogatives are mainly used to prevent terrorism , following the attacks of November . Example of use of the state of emergency which can be related to your question : <URL> Before the football match between Mulhouse and Grenoble , on 17/11/2015 , a fight bewteen football fans/hooligans started near the stadium of Mulhouse . Supporters of Grenoble were prohibited in the stadium by the chief of police and their seats remained empty ... See also the <URL> , which prevented supporters of Shakhtar Donetsk from attending a match in Ile-de-France 7/12/2015 , supporters of Rubin Kazan in Bordeaux on 9/12/2015 , supporters of Lazio de Rome in Saint-Etienne on 9/12/2015 ... This situation occured 94 times in France between 30/11/2015 and 14/12/2015 because policemen were occupied protecting us from terrorism . Later , on 16/01/2016 , the administative tribunal of Chalons-en-Champagne has validated the prohibition of fans from Rennes in the stadium of Troyes , even if the measure was motivated by the fact that policemen were occupied protecting shopping malls during a sales period <URL> . <URL> : some proactive ecologists were assigned to residence during COP21 . And the World March for Climate on 29/11/2015 was forbidden for fear of terrorism . On the other hand , there are actually demonstrations against the project of law on working conditions and the movement " Nuit Debout " still holds on the Republic Place . Tourist are really welcome in France and Frenchmen are commited to turn the sport events of this summer into safe and joyful celebrations .
Finally I got a 3 ( <URL> ) SIM for 1 pound and unlimited traffic data for 15 pounds . You can get a 10 pounds - 500Mb plan too . All of these things as a prepaid plan and working in less than a minute . You get a ticket with a code to set your SIM card credit and that 's all . Take a look at their plans <URL> .
It all depends on where you want to go . At any time of year , Landmannalaugar would call for something more substantial than a " small compact " . Even a small 4x4 ( i.e. a normal sedan with four wheel drive ) could get into trouble , you 'd really want something with extra ground clearance . Most of the other destinations you mention are easily accessible most of the year ( depends on weather in winter ) by any car type . At the end of April , most main roads will be clear ( barring unusual weather ) especially in the southern part of the country . You should have no trouble visiting Gullfoss and Geysir in a small compact . Vatnajökull is similarly accessible as long as you are OK with just driving to its edge . If you want to actually go on to the glacier , you need something far more powerful ( and a knowledgeable guide ) . Jökulsárlón is right on highway 1 as you pass Vatnajökull and should present no difficulties in any car at the end of April .
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
There are only three operators in Australia that actually own and operate their own networks , and they are : <URL> , the former state monopoly . My usual recommendation if you 're planning to travel even slightly off the beaten track , since they have the widest network by a long shot , but a bit more expensive than the competition . <URL> , an arm of Singapore 's SingTel , and a good choice if you want to save a few pennies and are sticking mostly to the cities . <URL> aka Vodafail , the local branch of the multinational , infamous for poor coverage and network instability issues and recommended only if you 're a masochist . As a representative anecdote , two friends of mine who worked for Vodafone had their wedding in Yarra Valley , a popular tourist destination just outside Melbourne , and the winery they chose , 1 km off the main highway , had zero Vodafone coverage . Both have now quit , and neither uses Vodafone any more ! All three have booths just outside Customs at both Sydney and Melbourne ( and probably other major airports too ) . I 'm not going to go into plan details , since these change at the drop of a hat , but at time of writing ( Dec 2014 ) Optus 's $ 2/day with 500MB/day plan is about as good as it gets . It 's probably worth mentioning that comparing plans in Australia is ( intentionally ) really difficult , since all operators work on a basis of giving you funny money and pricing everything in funny money . For example , paying $ 20 might get you $ 200 of " credit " , but phone calls then cost you $ 7/min ( actually $ 0.70 / min ) , and of course the ratio of real money to credit varies based on the operator and plan you pick . There are also " virtual operators " ( MVNO ) like <URL> and <URL> that license the big boys ' networks . They claim to be cheaper , and occasionally may be , but tend to have really shoddy customer support , puny data speed limits in the small print , etc. . The small savings are n't worth the potential for big hassle in my opinion , but YMMV . Source : Have used SIMs from all three companies , and seen my wife struggle with a MVNO I shall not deign to advertise . Currently on Telstra and happy with it .
There is not a single site or even multiple sites where the costs will be published . Reason being is that most doctor 's practices are private businesses and are not governed by any entity as far as cost is concerned . From the past experiences of myself and many others the cost for a regular office visit runs $ 80 - $ 200 depending on the physician . Urgent care visit runs $ 120 - $ 250 depending on what they had to do , and so on . Emergency rooms could get a lot more expensive depending on the care that they had to provide you and the hospital you visit . So if you feel like judging costs of care you should probably start looking at review sites like YELP : <URL> <URL> Where cost is mentioned in the reviews . P.S. Supposedly the new <URL> is supposed to provide you with that information .
Consolidators buy seats in bulk from various airlines and then re-sell the seats , usually through travel agents , at a discount . Because they buy seats in very large quantities , they get much lower fares and even adding on their margins provides an airfare that is often lower than the airline 's best internet fare . But these come with conditions , one of the biggest of which is NO frequent flyer points for the traveler . They also have other potential headaches such as no pre-reserving of seats , extra baggage charges , severe restrictions on change ( ie absolute use it or loose it policies ) , etc. .
There have been several studies looking into health risks associated with air travel , though often , it 's the pilots who are the focus of the investigation . A large European study , <URL> , finds in accordance with others that there is a higher incidence of skin cancer in cockpit crews . This has also been observed for cabin crews . However , they do not find a dose-response , i.e. they can not demonstrate that flying more increases skin cancer risk , which is what you 'd expect if it was radiation exposure during the flight that was causing cancer . Consequently , it is quite possible that it 's higher exposure to UV light in their time off work that puts cockpit and cabin crews at a higher risk for skin cancer compared to the rest of the population . In other words <URL> is overly sensationalist . Interestingly , mortality from several other causes is lower in cockpit crews , possibly due to selection effects , i.e. you need to be fit and healthy to get the job , and you make sufficent money to afford good health care : Our study confirms the marked cardiovascular mortality reduction of cockpit crew as compared to the general population . Obviously only very healthy persons are recruited into the profession , and continuous medical supervision may play a role in controlling cardiovascular risk factors . Analyses of mortality by age show that low mortality persists even after retirement . As seen in ESCAPE [ = the name of the study ] subcohorts and independent studies published previously , aircraft accidents , whether private or occupational cause a substantial proportion of deaths especially among younger cockpit crew . Pilots in early phases of their flight career seem to carry the highest risk of accidental death in aviation . Mortality from motor vehicle and other accidents was low . In summary , there may be a higher risk of skin ( and , apparently , breast ) cancer , though staying away from tanning studios and the beach in your spare time possibly alleviates that . What about non-fatal health risks ? Several potential issues come to mind : Exposure to pathogens , stress , and high noise levels . Exposure to pathogens is of course a concern in an enclosed space , and there are reports of infections spreading on planes <URL> . When levels of <URL> and <URL> have been measured , it was found that they were highest during on/off boarding , when passengers were moving around and when AC was running on anciliary power . In other words , AC on modern aircraft is doing a good job of filtering the air . Coincidentially , there has been a case study reporting rapid spread of the flu when the AC was out of order ( see the above-linked pdf ) . In sum : Wash your hands frequently , do n't exchange bodily fluid with passengers , and you should do fine , as long as the ventilation system is running . Stress is a risk factor associated with many physical and mental health related problems . There are indeed stress symptoms , such as fatigue , headache , concentration difficulties , or gastrointestinal problems reported in <URL> , though they do not compare stress level/symptoms to the general population . Anyway , not surprisingly , stress levels are lower the higher up on the ladder you are in the hierarchy . Also , the social network helps a lot to mitigate effects of stress . In sum : be the boss , and relax with friends and family , and you 'll do fine . Noise could also be a problem - it is loud on the airplane due to the engine noise . <URL> , on probably the same Swedish airline as above , reports no ill effects of noise exposure , however . Overall , it appears that even chronic air travel leads to little long-term damage . Have a good flight ! If you want to keep up-to-date on research done in the US regarding health risks for flight crews , you can check out <URL> .
It depends on what you mean by " all sights " . Iceland has a lot to offer and you could spend a whole summer there without seeing everything . 2-3 weeks is however ample to do a traditional " around the country " drive , traveling along the ring road ( highway 1 ) , hitting many ( albeit not all ) places of interest . Such a trip can be done in one week , so you 'll have ample time for detours during a 2-3 week long trip . Being late April/early May , any mountain road is likely to still be closed and many of the secondary roads may be in rough shape after the winter . This will limit you to sights that are reasonably close to the main highways . At that time of year , you will find the weather will still be quite cold , making camping a less than exciting prospect . Also , some hotels/guesthouses are only operated during the summer , so you should plan ahead a bit on where you are going to be staying .
It kind of depends where you 're going but I 've had experience driving in Norway when I traveled there a couple years ago . Their roads are generally in GREAT shape . In some places they have luminescent paint/markers on the road . Part of having such high taxes , great public services . To be fair that applies to their major roads and anything around cities . The country roads I drove on were pretty good . Its the remote roads and mountainous places that may not be maintained as often . As it has been mentioned , winter does get very cold/slippery outside of Oslo and other major cities . The rental company may have winter tires on the vehicle in that case .
East Coast Park is a nice place for camping especially in Singapore . The first thing is that you 'll need to get a camping permit , which you can <URL> or at AXS self-service machines . You will only be able to do this if you have permanent residence or a long-term visa for Singapore as the permit requires you to enter an IC number or FIN ( and AFAIK , AXS machines only accept NETS payments for this particular transaction ) . You are n't allowed to have open fires , but there are many places in campsites that hire out BBQ pits for cooking for which again you can <URL> . Bringing your own BBQ pits is n't allowed unless on specific occasions ( public holidays , etc ) so that 's not an option . <URL> ( and to be honest , information does n't get more comprehensive than that ) . There is n't a lot you 'll be left wanting for that can not be solved by a quick trip to a convenience store , so camping at ECP is easy that way . Cycling is a one of the major activities to do when camping at ECP and the trails are fairly easy to attempt , can be done as a family activity I would say . You rent cycles for a day at fairly reasonable prices ( S$ 6-12 ) . <URL> is another place to consider camping ; feels a bit more secluded as it 's not on the mainland , and if you 're into off-road biking there are some good trails there . Camping at Pulau Ubin does not require a permit .
In short , the weather is great , especially towards the end of that period . The hurricane season is over ( it lasts until mid November or so ) , and it 's not extremely hot &amp; humid like it can be in the summer . In Havana , average max temperatures are between 26 and 28 ° C ( 79-82 ° F ) , while average min temperatures are 19-20 ° C ( 66-68 ° F ) . <URL> . March and April are the months with the <URL> in Cuba ; January and February may see a bit more rain , but most of the time the weather is pleasant .
Late March can be pretty cool in Budapest , I mean less chance for 20 degrees ( Celsius ) and more for 10 ! Prepare for possible rain and wind also . Nights will be between 0 and 5 degrees , so take a warm sweater and a waterproof jacket with you . Enjoy Budapest anyway !
Well it turns out that <URL> . It lists details of 14 beaches in the area . Each entry begins with " Beach Fees " . The following beaches are free , as in you do n't need a beach tag : North Wildwood Beach Sea Isle City Beach ( Wednesdays only ) Upper Township Beach Wildwood Beach Wildwood Crest Beach
end question
start question
Can a Yemeni citizen travel through Oman airport with 2 airlines without visa ?
You should be fine . For transits of less than 6 hours such as your case you do n't need a visa , as long as you have proof of onward <URL> , according to the Timatic tool on Emirates ' website . Transit - Oman ( OM ) Visa Visa required . TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 6 hours . Visa Issuance : Passengers in transit for longer than 6 hours , can obtain a single transit visa on arrival for a maximum stay of 72 hours if they have confirmation from the airline that a visa has been approved before departure .
It 's worth nothing that return flights are always from A-B-A . You 're asking for an open-jawed ( sort-of ) flight - and that 's almost always two one-way tickets . Sometimes on kayak.com they have variants that 'll show up if you select multiple airports in your " return flight " - you could try that ( in the " from " box , you can put MAD , and in the " to " box , put " DEL , BOM . However it may just find the cheapest return flight to DEL then . But it could be worth a try . I 'd suggest <URL> as another possible option . It 's like an online travel agent - you pay a small fee , and their experts find the cheapest flight they can for you . What you could do is create a contest on there , and indicate what you 've found , but that you 'd like a way to book it for the price you 've found , or for less if they can ;) ( disclaimer , I occasionally compete on there as an expert - there 's a discount link in my profile )
This kind of information changes very frequently , depending on how the owners of EDI price FastTRACK access and what airlines are willing to pay or pass through to passengers . Even at Heathrow , a vastly busier airport , access may change in a matter of months . FlyerTalk is generally reliable for such information , and according to various threads as of June 2013 , FastTrack access is reportedly complimentary for British Airways Silver and Gold members , and those ticketed in Business UK , Club Europe/World , and First Class ( I believe BMI Diamond Club has been fully integrated into the BA program ) Sapphire and Emerald-level members of OneWorld airline programs , anecdotally -- EDI is not listed on <URL> EasyJet passengers with " Speedy Boarder " access or EasyJet + cards Flybe passengers with " Flybe Plus " cards Air France Gold and Platinum members flying on CityJet You can buy Fast Track access from the vending machine for # 5 , and it is also included with some parking packages . I could not confirm any information for the other major airlines there , which include Aer Lingus , Air Canada , Germanwings , KLM , Lufthansa , Norwegian , Ryanair , Scandinavian , Thomas Cook , Turkish , and United .
I was flying from Singapore to New Zealand ( 11 hours ) . Jetstar will not feed you without additional charge . This is company policy . They wo n't even bring you tea or coffee without charging . In addition , economy class is creepily cold . Bring some warm clothes . In business class meals included in cost of flight ticked . In economy class you must <URL> it .
There should be no problems , unless you 're on a Ukrainian passport , according to the Russian in my team here . Even then it should be fine , you may just experience some questions on your reason for your trip . Of course , as you 're just continuing on to Europe , you 're going to get very little attention . In terms of the city , it 's far from Ukraine and the situation in Crimea . At present , it 's fine . Sure , something might happen between now and then , but it seems unlikely at present . Your best bet is to make sure you have travel insurance , just in case - but it 's unlikely that it 'll need to come into play . Also check with your country 's travel advisory alerts for Russia . For example <URL> points out that in addition to the Crimea incidents , there have been bombings in recent months , including terrorist attacks in Moscow . But again , it 's unlikely , and right now , flights through Sheremetyevo are proceeding as normal .
It depends on your citizenship . Generally , <URL> : Foreign nationals require a valid and accepted travel document to enter Switzerland . In addition , a visa is required in certain cases . Furthermore , sufficient funds must be available or procurable by legal means to cover the cost of living during the transit through or the stay in Switzerland . The Swiss Federal Office for Migration ( FOM ) , the Swiss foreign missions and the cantonal migration authorities will gladly provide information on the principal conditions for entry to Switzerland ( www.bfm.admin.ch ) . Now the question is , what is a valid travel document ? This depends on the country . There is a <URL> for each country . Assuming from your profile that you 're Polish , a ID card is enough .
It can differ from country to country , and also depends on what visa you 're applying for , and going into every country would be a book in itself , so I 'll try and provide a general answer . In general , countries that share information could share visa rejections . So travelling to country B , you may be flagged and asked questions about it . Often , you have to sign a form indicating whether or not you were ever rejected for a visa to ANYWHERE , on any passport , current or present . The result of that may affect your application . For example , the US states that <URL> . I 've had stamps for ' visa cancelled without prejudice ' but that 's different to being denied , it was simply to reissue a new visa . Again , they put a stamp in the passport . As for a stamp in the passport for denials , yes , they will sometimes <URL> .
There are two aspects to the question : EU countries are extremely unlikely to put specific restrictions on entry by dual citizens . It 's never been done nor discussed and would raise many questions . There is a general difference in philosophy at play here , US authorities routinely look at the country of birth for many purposes ( e.g. security clearances ) whereas European countries do not do that in the same way ( being a citizen trumps everything else ) . It would not make sense as retaliation for the recent changes to the US visa waiver program either . In any case , nothing has been announced and such a new rule would require an extensive rewriting of the Schengen regulations , which can not happen overnight without anyone noticing , given the way the EU decision process works . EU/Schengen countries are also very unlikely to put a blanket restriction on entry by all US citizens . This would in fact make sense as a retaliatory measure ( or to protest other restrictions like the ESTA requirement or the fact that citizens from some EU countries are still not eligible for the VWP ) and would be easier to implement ( just a matter of removing the US from one list and adding it to another ) . But it would also jeopardize visa-free access to the US for all EU citizens and neither the treatement of Bulgarians , Poles and others nor that of dual Iranian-something citizens seem to be enough for other member states to take that risk . Of course , that 's not a certainty ( what is in this area ? ) but until now the EU has only been able to complain a bit , with member states delaying any serious action and I feel fairly safe in predicting that it will continue that way . Case in point , the regulation cited by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo contains some pretty strong language but always had possibilities to delay actual restrictions pretty much indefinitely baked in and , sure enough , several ostensibly crucial deadlines have passed without any agreement to go beyond empty protestations .
Freedom of movement for workers is one of the fundamental building stones of the EU and EU citizens do n't need to get prior authorization to work elsewhere in the EU . In practice , some countries used to ( and perhaps still do ) deliver some form of residence " permit " but unlike non-EU citizens , you are entitled to get one ( i.e. formally the permit just documents your pre-existing treaty rights , it 's not up to the authorities of the country to give you one or not ) . In my experience , it 's a formality you complete after starting to work , nothing much happens if you do n't get one . For example in Ireland I showed up a couple of times at the local police station where apparently only one garda knew the procedure and he was never there ; his colleagues just told me not to bother . In the Netherlands , I got one from the town administration where I was asked if I want one or not and told it 's mostly useful to simplify things like getting welfare benefits if I lost my job , etc. ( I do n't have personal experience with that but I believe you only qualify for welfare after living several years in the country , you ca n't go " benefits-shopping " and move to a country just for that ) . All of this is not yet true for citizens of Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia who still suffer from restrictions in certain countries for up to 7 years after their country joined the EU under transitory rules and do sometimes need to go through a lot of red tape to get a work permit . Of course , if you want to practice a regulated profession ( starting with lawyers and medical doctors but in some countries the list is really long ) , you need to get your qualifications recognized . Getting this type of things working as smoothly as possible is a big part of what the EU does but that 's unlikely to be an issue for short-term jobs . In many countries , you also need to get a tax/health insurance number that locals would have had since their birth and that employers will require . In some countries , I suspect working legally would also mean that you need to register as a resident with the local administration irrespective of the time you intend to stay ( in Germany , Switzerland , the Netherlands , residents have to officially register any change of address within days of moving -- it feels kind of creepy to me but it 's very easy to do in practice ) . So there can still be some red tape involved even if you do n't need a permit per se . Furthermore , a small number of defense , health or policy-related positions can be closed to citizens from other EU countries ( but certainly not all public sector jobs ) . Info on all this <URL> is very good . PS : Immigration is mostly off-topic on this site but then again we do have questions about working in Georgia or Argentina and , if you are a citizen from one of the member states , the EU rules obviously also allow you to work for a short time while traveling around Europe .
Since you are a citizen of the European Union you do not need a visa to travel to any other EU country . UK is not part of the Schengen Area , so you only need a passport ( or national identity card ) to cross the border and that 's it . <URL> : Individuals from the following countries can enter the Schengen Area , Bulgaria , [ 3 ] Cyprus , [ 4 ] and Romania [ 5 ] without a visa : As of right , using a passport or national identity card - Citizens of European Union member states and their special territories
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
Regrettably , the United Arab Emirates <URL> , probably out of fear at the Arab backlash at dealing with the Zionist entity and all that . However , in practice , transiting Dubai ( or any other UAE airport ) with an Israeli passport seems fine . The CEO of Australian airline Qantas , which has a close partnership with Emirates , has <URL> : " Passengers do not need to pass through immigration at Dubai to continue onward to Europe , " he wrote . " Israeli passport holders can transit through Dubai . " Actually entering the UAE , though , is generally not allowed , certainly not without an advance visa which is rarely granted .
Flights on UIA ( PS ) from TBS land at terminal D. Flights on BA to LHR depart from terminal D. PS and BA do have an interlining agreement * , so it should be possible to buy this as a single ticket . As stated by Roman R , the airport provides <URL> information which shows only a security control for transferring passengers and a transfer desk to collect onward boarding passes . BA also provide a <URL> and in most cases it is possible to use a mobile boarding pass . Alternatively it may be possible to check in online and print the BA boarding pass in advance . * Although expertflyer says BA and PS have an e-ticket interlining agreement with each other , I ca n't actually bring up any ticket other than YY coded ones . ( ps . this is/was the only BA tagged question with no answer ! )
As long as you have proof of exit from the US , that is all US customs and immigration will care about . I think you can safely relax and go through the normal shuffle of collecting your bags and rechecking them in for your onward flight , etc. .
Code sharing and alliances are two different animals . Code Sharing is when airline A blocks seats on airline B 's route from city XYZ to city DEF . Then sells those seats with airline A 's flight number . Airline A may only contract for one code share route with airline B or it may contract for 50 routes . Airlines can code share with whomever they wish , irregardless of alliances . And they choose the routes they feel match their marketing goals and customer 's needs . Alliances revolve more around joint marketing of all members , plus convenice of connecting travelers with fellow alliance members . And while alliance members frequently code share with each other , the majority of flights are exclusive to the operating carrier .
Yes , it 's possible , because , as of June 2015 , Romania is not ( yet ) part of the Schengen area ( they almost certainly wo n't be in the next few months but they are supposed to join some time in the future ) . It 's best to have a short layover and to book the whole trip at once to make sure you wo n't have to collect your luggage in Frankfurt but sterile transit is otherwise not a problem , even at night . Incidentally , you probably already figured out that your US visa exempts you from the airside transit visa requirement in Germany but your Romanian visa would also be enough so you have not only one but two ways to qualify for this exemption !
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
Yes , a form of ID is still required , otherwise how would you prove that you 're an Indian citizen ? A Kiwi could rock up and say ' hi I 'm Indian , I do n't need a visa ' . However , it does n't need to be a passport . From the <URL> : Visa for Indian Nationals : Effective from 1st October 2000 an Indian citizen over the age of 10 years travelling between India and Nepal by air would have to keep in his possession any of the following documents to establish his/her identity as an Indian citizen . Valid Indian passport ; or , Photo identity card issued by the Government of India , or any State Government or Union Territory Administration in India , or the Election Commission of India ; or , Emergency certificate issued by the Embassy of India in Nepal .
You can travel to Italy with your current valid passport and your permesso di soggiorno . You do not need your old passport or the old visa . Your permesso di soggiorno is not " based on " a visa ; it replaces the visa . With a valid permesso di soggiorno , you do not need any visa . See , for example , the <URL> Article 5 ( 1 ) ( b ) : For stays not exceeding three months per six-month period , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit ; ( emphasis added ) Similarly , the permit itself allows you to remain in Italy as long as it is valid , and by implication to enter Italy at any time .
end question
start question
Are there any power outlets available in SNCF 's Intercités de Nuit ?
According to <URL> , you can find power oulets in the hallway . Even the <URL> . If you plan to use the plugs in the hallway , a good idea suggested by <URL> is to take a power strip along with you . Indeed , you may not be the only one in need of a plug !
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
There are several beer spas in Czech and a couple in Prague . It 's an " interesting " experience In Prague , there are : <URL> ( around 2500 CZK , 90-100 Euros ) Pivní Lázně BBB Tábor ( Source : <URL> ) For more traditional Spa/Massage : <URL> ( around 3000-4000 CZK , pretty expensive stuff ) <URL> ( around 2500-3000 CZK )
Yes , having an Israeli stamp in your passport can restrict your ability to enter some Islamic and Arab nations including : Syria Lebanon Libya Kuwait Iran Iraq Pakistan Saudi Arabia Sudan Yemen What to do about it ? Here are some options ... Do n't worry about it -- If you are n't interested in travelling to any of these countries , it does n't matter if you have an Israeli stamp . This is the simplest option . Stamp separate paper - Israeli passport control is amenable to stamping a separate piece of paper rather than stamping your passport . However , be aware that this may not be sufficient for hiding your visit to Israel . For example , if you cross a border on land ( e.g. Jordan or Egypt ) , you will have the stamp from the nation on the other side of the border crossing , so not having an Israeli stamp is n't fooling anyone . Renew passport - Simply get a new passport after visiting Israel . Then you can travel on your new passport to any of the above mentioned nations . This is an especially good option if your passport is getting close to the expiry date and/or you do n't have any immediate plans to visit the countries in question . Second passport - Some nations ( at least in Europe ) will actually issue a second passport for the purpose of travelling to Israel . The US does not do this , however , it is n't hard to get a second US passport for other valid reasons ( such as needing to travel while your passport is away for visa processing ) . If taking this options , it is advised that you do not travel with both passports . Do not take a passport with an Israeli stamp to one of the listed nations even if you do not present it to officials as it may be found if your possessions are searched . It is probably best not to visit Israel and one of these arab nations on the same trip as it is harder to conceal the visit ( see note above about land border crossings ) . Other evidence of visiting Israel may also be problematic . I 've heard of receipt/stamps from a hostel in Israel as cause for ejection from an arab country . Source : written from memory though I believe most of the info came from the Lonely Planet guidebook
It seem that there is but the only way to fly might be a chartered flight . <URL> which supposedly services the airport does n't seem to have any scheduled flights to or from Santiago de Veraguas . The only thing I was able to find are charter planes that are able to go to the airport . Which seems to be confirmed by a <URL> , which states that you can only charter a plane to fly into the Ruben Cantu Airport , the book also gives you some other options of getting to and from Santiago de Veraguas . So your best bet would be to take a bus or rent a car and go to Panama City and then take a flight to Bocas del Toro .
Yes , there is a comprehensive list of what vaccinations are provided by the NHS . <URL> , which says : Free travel vaccinations The following travel vaccinations are usually available free on the NHS diphtheria , polio and tetanus ( combined booster ) typhoid hepatitis A -- including when combined with typhoid or hepatitis B cholera These vaccines are usually free because they protect against diseases thought to represent the greatest risk to public health if they were brought into the country . Interestingly it says " usually " rather than making a blanket statement . I 'm not sure if this is because the decision is made at an individual trust/surgery level , or if they are just covering themselves . Further down the page it also notes that : People in certain risk groups may be offered extra vaccines I personally found that when I attempted to get Typhoid/hep A from the NHS , my GP had a temporary staffing issue with regards to nurses , and as a result simply said " we 're not doing travel appointments " . Which was somewhat frustrating , although they did at least provide a list of private suppliers . At the time this answer was placed , the webpage stated it was last reviewed on 16/11/2015 I have no idea if this applies at all to the Scottish NHS .
Basically , no . As my Colombian flatmate in London put it , every time a revolution occurs , the first thing that gets hit is the infrastructure , and down goes the rail . Not sure how accurate that is in all countries , but it 's certainly the case in Argentina , Chile , Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador , and Colombia . There are some limited train options in Argentina - from Buenos Aires to nearby cities ( like Rosario ) . However the buses are cheaper , and faster , and it 's not far , so why you 'd take the train I 'm not sure . There 's also a train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes in Peru for Machu Picchu tourists , but that 's a few hours . Worth it though if you are n't hiking , as the views are spectacular ! There 's also a <URL> tourist train from Salta , Argentina , but it 's a one-day thing and comes back to Salta at night . However , not to worry ! The buses , especially in Argentina and Chile , are absolutely fantastic ! For example , a <URL> . They inevitably have movies , great seats that for a few extra euros you can convert to seats that become beds ( known as full-cama ) , and can get food options from crackers up to roasts ! Bolivia and Peru were n't quite as luxurious , in fact I found the buses in Bolivia painful ( but they were cheap ) , although near Lima in Peru you could find the full range of luxury if you so wanted .
There is at least one - the <URL> is located in the West stand of the 32,000-seat Stadium MK ! ( Home to the MKDONS ) Several of the room types feature views out over the pitch ( you 'd want the ones saying " With View " in the booking list ) , and the restaurant/bar has views out of the pitch . The only downside is that the executive rooms are generally unavailable on match days , as they 're used for hospitality , and someone on FT mentioned that not all of the fitness facilities are available on match days as apparently they get used by the teams ! The hotel is also only a short distance from <URL> , which is a must-visit for any crypto/spy/code-breaking / computer/history geek , and you can often get some stunningly good advanced-purchase deals at the hotel for weekend stays :)
Restaurants and tourist attractions generally stay open on public holidays , because there 's extra trade . As far as restaurants go , Barcelona has plenty of restaurants , so even if a few close you should n't have trouble . The thing you do need to be prepared for is that supermarkets will be shut , so if you run out of bottled water you 'll have to pay through the nose at a bar or a small grocer . For individual tourist attractions , you can check their websites . I expect most of them to have English translations , but if not then the words you need to look for are festivo ( public holiday ) and víspera de festivo ( day before a public holiday - they sometimes have special timetables ) . Similarly for transport . When people talk about the holiday " spilling onto more than one day " , they 're probably talking about the institution of puentes , whereby workers make a " bridge " between the holiday and the nearest weekend . This is n't really relevant to you as a tourist , except insofar as tourist attractions may be slightly busier than usual for weekdays outside peak season .
Hope it 's okay I answer my own question as it might be useful to others but I tried an ATM at Scotiabank and I was able to withdraw $ 1000 . Not sure if it 's that particular ATM or just that bank 's machines but years earlier I renember being able to withdraw a large amount from SB as well . Perhaps RBC and CIBC save their bills for everyone so the machines do n't go empty but Scotiabank does n't care ?
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
When can flights be booked ? Tickets go one sale twice a year on a fixed day common to all airlines . For example , tickets for flights from March 27 through October 29 , 2016 all went on sale at 9:30 am on January 27 . The day when tickets go on sale is announced a couple weeks beforehand . The old system of selling tickets only from two months before departure is however still used on a few minor routes . Also , flights which are not yet on sale on the domestic market can usually be booked as part of an international ticket . For tourists : flat 10,800 yen per flight with ANA and JAL The two major carriers All Nippon Airways ( ANA ) and Japan Airlines ( JAL ) have a simple fare for foreign visitors : 10,800 yen per flight ( plus a couple hundred yen of taxes ) , on all flights . They differ on some details , however , which are described below . Note that , on some short or very competitive routes , the regular advance booking fare available to everybody ( described below ) may be cheaper than that . Both fares require a round-trip or open-jaw international ticket from a foreign country to Japan , with no restriction on the airline ( contrary to some earlier offers which required flying into Japan on an airline in the same alliance ) . ANA 's fare is called " Experience Japan " . It can only be booked on the local ANA website for a country other than Japan ( usually , but not necessarily , one 's country of residence ) , and must be booked at least three days in advance . The checked baggage allowance is one piece of up to 20kg , as with regular domestic ANA fares . Changes and refunds are not permitted . There is no limit on the number of flights which can be booked . Flights of five regional airlines which codeshare with ANA ( Air Do , Ibex , Starflyer , Solaseed Air , and Oriental Air Bridge ) are also eligible . JAL 's fare is called " Japan Explorer " , it has <URL> . The conditions are mostly the same as with ANA 's , except that the checked baggage allowance is two pieces of up to 23kg each , as on JAL 's international flights . On the other hand , only up to five domestic flights can be booked per international ticket . In addition to flights of JAL itself , only flights of its subsidiaries J-Air and Japan Transocean Air are eligible , and not flights of other JAL group airlines such as Japan Air Commuter . JAL has an <URL> for flights to the Tohoku region : 5,400 yen per flight . That one , however , requires flying to Japan on a Oneworld airline , and must be booked by phone to a JAL reservation center . A promotional JAL fare similar to the Tohoku one was recently introduced for <URL> from Tokyo or Osaka , to assist with the revitalisation efforts of the region after the earthquakes of April 2016 . It is currently available for flights until October 29 , 2016 , but may ( or may not ) be extended when tickets for flights from October 30 willl go on sale . For everybody : advance booking discounts and budget carriers Advance booking discounts Both <URL> and <URL> offer advance booking discounts , which must be booked on the airline 's Japanese website ( which is also available in English ) . The best fares are available by booking up to 75 days before departure , the " second-best " up to 55 days , and likewise up to 45 , 28 , and 21 days . Even booking just a couple days in advance will give some discount over the full fare , which is only applied for last-minute purchases , or when all discounted seats have sold out . Flights of the five regional airlines mentioned above can also be booked through ANA . Flights of all JAL group airlines as well as of Fuji Dream Airlines and Amakusa Airlines can be booked through JAL . Budget carriers There are five carriers which can be considered " budget " : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , and <URL> ( website in Japanese only for flights within Japan ) . They mostly serve Japan 's major peripheral cities , such as Sapporo , Fukuoka or Naha , from Tokyo and/or Osaka . They also serve some more minor cities , especially on the islands of Kyushu and Shikoku . Skymark is a bit of a " premium budget " , in particular all its tickets include a 20kg checked baggage allowance , and also it is the only one of the five which flies domestically from Tokyo 's more centrally located Haneda airport . ( The other four use Narita , with Peach also using Haneda for international flights only . ) As a general rule of thumb , the sticker price for a flight in a low-demand period ( middle of the week , not during holidays ) is normally about 8,000 yen with Skymark and 5,000 with the others . However , taxes and payment fees can add up to 1,000 yen , and checked baggage fees can exceed 2,000 yen on long routes or with heavy baggage . During high-demand periods , they usually come close to ANA 's or JAL 's , since then mostly everything can sell out quickly . All five run frequent sales campaigns ( once or twice monthly ) , during which fares can sink to about 2,000 yen , with the best discounts being again for flights in low-demand periods . Peach is the only one which announces them on its English website
The <URL> cube series seems to be just what I am looking for . Still a packing cube design for easy access , but non-mesh for liquid protection . On top of that , it is translucent to allow cursory inventorying , and is supposed to be especially light . I 'll let you all know how my purchase fares .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
You will probably struggle . Rural areas such as this in the UK are n't known for long opening hours or 24h-style service . 8am on a Sunday may be difficult , although by 9am you might have more options . Your best bet would be to call a few places - I would n't trust any online information you find on a third-party site , and cafes are quite likely not to have a website of their own . I just searched on Yelp for <URL> and it turned up a few . That might be a start .
When I was travelling in Tanzania , some local people recommended <URL> as an alternative to Zanzibar . It 's located in the <URL> , and it is supposed to be much quieter and less touristy . I did n't go there myself - we opted to do Zanzibar instead . If you do decide to go to Zanzibar , Nungwi is definitely the most touristy spot . Kendwa is a few kilometers away and is quieter , but still has enough to do to keep you occupied . Note that when I say Nungwi is touristy , I mean that there are about 20 hotels lining the beach - that 's pretty much of it . As soon as you step off the beach however , you 're in a local village .
Dining cars are present on almost every long-distance train . They offer rather good food ( although I have little experience to compare it to European trains ) , though I would not expect much delicacies , just a good food of a middle-range city restaurant . Specifically for Baikal fish , I doubt it , except probably when you travel near Baikal itself . In addition to restaurant cars you can also buy basic snacks from a conductor at your car , and sometimes a waiter from a restaurant car would go through the train offering snacks to passengers . At the same time , as many have mentioned here , on every station where the train stops for at least 20 minutes1 , there usually will be locals selling food to you right from the platform . The quality of that food varies a lot ( with no medical control etc. ) , but it is indeed a chance to try a good local food . I have never traveled near Baikal , but I 've been once in Karelia , and a great choice of cooked ( smoked etc. ) fish was available . However , I think this might depend on a season . Apart from these local specialties , locals will be selling mostly basic food appealing for low-class travelers trying to eat as cheap as possible . Sometimes these locals will even buy a ticket from one station to a neighbor one and walk through train offering their products , so you might even not need to walk out . Also note that you can buy tickets with meals included , but this usually starts from 2nd class . On a short trip ( 1 night and shorter ) this will be just several snacks and some drink , but on longer trains they can bring some basic hot food from the dining car directly to your compartment . When booking a ticket , look for label like " У2 " in the carriage class field . " У " stands for " услуги " ( " services " -- meals , and also includes a few newspapers etc. ) , while the number stands for the number of meals included . The boilers are available in every sleeping car , except for some exceptional circumstances such as boiler malfunctioning or running out of water . Not that these are unheard of , but rather rare , and most probable it will be OK to go to another carriage and use their boiler in such a case . The water quality might be not the best , and personally I dislike it and try to avoid , but many people do drink it . The biggest concern is not sanitary problems , but just some metallic smell etc. . Also a bigger problem might be lack of cold ( well , room-temperature ) drinking water ; you may find that boiling water is the only drinkable water you can get . It is a good idea to have a bottle or two of drinking water with you . Also note that there are different train types in Russia . The best are so-called " firmenny " trains ( фирменный поезд ) , or the " premium " ( " премиум " ) introduced several years ago . They have all the facilities ( from restaurant cars to 3rd class carriages and toilets ) much better than other trains , but the tickets are also more expensive for the same class . At the other end , during high season ( summer ) you might see temporary trains assigned for just a couple of months . They are usually compiled of different old carriages and may have many different problems ; I even am not quite sure whether they have a dining car at all . A rough rule of thumb is the less is the official designated number of train/route ( you see it when you book the tickets ) , the better is the train : trains from 1 to approx . 150 are firmenny trains , while those temporary trains are usually assigned numbers at about 800 and above . Intermediate numbers and trains also exist . 1 Such stations are usually every several hours of train trip . And yes , even if the train comes to the station in dead night , some locals still probably will be there .
You 're going to have to dig really deep into the specs of the phone to answer your question . The issue is not the features themselves but the frequency spectrum on which these features are available . You can look at : <URL> <URL> to see what is typically available in Israel . From experience : IPhone 4S from AT&amp;T works like a charm in Israel for both Data and Voice . As far as I know GSM Voice Frequencies used in Israel are : 800 ( old , possibly decommissioned ) , 900 , 1800 , which IPhone and most Androids support . The rest you will have to find out . Now if you wanted to use CDMA , like Verizon does in Israel , roaming does n't work on Cellcom 's network as far as last information I have .
end question
start question
Can I still travel to Schengen countries if I have an expired residence permit ?
An expired residence permit certainly does not allow you to stay or travel in the Schengen area by itself . There are n't any systematic border checks so you would not generally meet any border guard at the border between Norway and Sweden or at the airport when flying back to Sweden . You might therefore easily get away with intra-Schengen travel without proper documentation . But it does not mean it would be legal or that you can not be asked about your status by the police in one country or the other ( even without traveling , incidentally ) . Furthermore , some airlines wo n't let you board without an appropriate visa ( Ryanair is one airline that is notorious for that , see previous questions like <URL> ) and many will at least check your ID so you would expose yourself to some scrutiny in any case . EDIT : Your citizenship makes your situation much easier . You can legally travel , leave and enter the Schengen area as a visitor for up to 90 days and this short-stay does <URL> . Legally speaking , you could also stay in Sweden on that basis alone ( people who can not stay in the Schengen area without a visa might have other ways to get a temporary permit but as far as I know you do n't need one and the advice you received about staying in Sweden would only become relevant if the process took more than three months ) . Do take the expired work permit with you to document the fact that you have n't been overstaying ( your last entry stamp is presumably much older than 90 days ) , show your passport if you are asked for ID ( I would not volunteer a confusing expired document unless it 's needed ) and you should be fine . If you left the Schengen area , I guess you could theoretically be refused entry when coming back but travel within the area should not be a problem at all , even if there is in fact a border check somewhere .
You need to visit the Danish embassy/consulate ( or perhaps an embassy of another Schengen country which handles applications for Denmark in your current location ) , and fill the <URL> provided there . Usually you will be asked for the following documents : A copy of your passport a long with your original passport . Passport size photo , clear , no head cover , no smile , light background . Bank statement for the last six months to show that you can cover the trip expenses . Or , a job certificate from your employer showing your income . Invitation letters from sponsors ( if available ) Application fee ( differs from embassy to another , country to another ) These were the usual requests , sometimes they ask for more or less . It also depends on the country you request the visa from , but generally getting the Schengen visa is easy as long as you provided the papers they ask for . Remember , it takes around 2 weeks usually for the visa to be issued .
There 's no specific rule saying you ca n't enter the US on a tourist visa after your PR status or other visa expires . However , that 's not to say it wo n't raise questions . They 're probably going to have what happened on their records , and they 'll want an explanation of why she 's visiting , how she 'll support herself , and evidence that she plans on leaving again . Why ? Because lots of people who have their PR status or visas cancelled , try to over stay or re-enter on other ' visas ' to pretend to be tourists , so they can keep on working . They do n't want that to happen , so will need evidence . However , given all this hassle with visas , marriage , and visits , it 's complicated enough that you may want to consider meeting with an immigration consultant / lawyer for more information , to increase your chances of ' ticking the boxes ' ie - doing the right thing . There 's only so much advice you can take from a guy on the internet ;)
The answer is more or less given in two related <URL> <URL> . So in theory you should be able to travel to the UK with a recently expired passport . However , as it is mentioned in the comments , do expect issues . You might also be denied boarding , by either the ferry or carrier , since they have to bring you back when denied entry .
Yes you can enter Cyprus with your valid Schengen visa as long as you have used the visa before to enter a Schengen country . From <URL> of the embassy of Cyprus in Finland ( Could n't find the page of the Embassy in Saudi ) , also the embassy in Russian <URL> : Third country nationals , holders of a valid Schengen visa ( type : double or multiple entry ) , who have already entered the Schengen area in accordance with the terms upon which their Schengen visa was issued , may travel to Cyprus without a Cypriot national visa and stay in Cyprus for a period equal to the remainder of the time for which the Schengen visa is valid .
The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : All foreigners , required or not to obtain a short stay visa , who wish to enter France must have a 30.000 Euros health insurance that covers all Schengen territory . " Strange that the same requirement is not mentioned in the <URL> . The <URL> in it 's portuguese version states : To reduce risks or delays in the border it is advisable to : Hire an international insurance , valid for Europe during the period of stay in the Schengen territory with a coverage of at least $ 30.000,00 for medical or hospital expenses . Even though it is not mandatory for entrance in the Netherlands , some other countries in the Schengen territory require this insurance . Additionally , I looked a few other ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) embassies sites in Brazil and none of them mention the health insurance requirement Besides that , it is common sense in Brazil that a Brazilian who wish to travel to Europe , must have this 30.000 EUR health insurance . For instance , credit cards like <URL> or <URL> advise that they will give such insurance if the airline tickets are bought using the credit card . A few travel forums and sites like <URL> ( backpackers ) or <URL> ( talking about travel ) also mention the need to have such health insurance . All in all , it 's hard to say if the health insurance is really mandatory or no . Evidences suggest it is not for brazilians , besides the common sense , but I just ca n't be sure .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
Disclaimer : The following paragraphs are not to be used as a recommendation , but describes what we experienced . Others might encounter difficulties if for instance one gets selected for a check by customs . Well , we did n't have time to get the passport , and did n't want to spend a lot of money on an emergency passport , so we went ahead and tried . The following is true for Norway-Germany , and Germany-Norway : Airport security and check-in : No problems what so ever . The airline staff did not ask for passport for any travelers . Airport security and customs upon arrival : No problems what so ever . No one even looked at us . We did bring the birth certificate , but was never requested to show it , or any other form of identification . Airline rules The airline rules are a bit ambiguous , according to Customer Service at SAS . Infants need to have a passport , but you will most likely not have to show it . But if they ask for it , then you need to be able to show some form of identification , a passport , a birth certificate or something else , if there exist alternatives . So , according to Customer Service , a birth certificate will suffice , although their rules require a passport . They did not know what the Norwegian or German authorities rules were , they only recommended to always carry a passport . National rules Norway The following is a quote from <URL> . Norwegian children must have their own passports . This is also recommended for travel within the Schengen Area ( Europe 's passport-free zone ) , since a passport is the only valid proof of identity for Norwegians abroad . As you can see , the Norwegian authorities recommend that children have a passport within the Schengen Area . They do n't say that you must have it . Germany The following is a badly google-translated text retrieved from <URL> : Children entries are invalid since 26 June 2012 at the parent 's passport . Since that day , all children must have ( from birth ) when traveling abroad its own travel document . This is for German citizens travelling abroad from Germany , not foreigners entering Germany . However , it 's likely that the same rules apply for both . Schengen : The following is taken from <URL> : Documents for minors In addition to their own valid passport or ID card , all children travelling : alone ; or with adults who are not their legal guardian ; or with only one parent may need an extra ( official ) document signed by their parents , second parent or legal guardian ( s ) authorising them to travel . There are no EU rules on this matter , each EU country decides whether or not it requires such documents . Summary The airline company will most likely let you board the plane with an infant without passport . The Norwegian authorities recommend , but does n't require that you bring a passport for an infant The German authorities requires that all citizens have passports when travelling from Germany . It 's therefore likely that the requirement holds for foreigners travelling to Germany .
Unless you have n't paid the fine and now have a warrant outstanding I would n't worry about it . Traffic offenses are only a concern if you have committed something serious like a vehicular manslaughter or if you basically ignored the summons or mandatory court appearance and now have a warrant issued for your arrest . <URL> but also provides you with the link to the definitinon of crimes for which your <URL> . The list is too big to copy here but the only thing that involves vehicles is in fact manslaughter : Involuntary , where the statute requires proof of recklessness , which is defined as the awareness and conscious disregard of a substantial and unjustified risk which constitutes a gross deviation from the standard that a reasonable person would observe in the situation . A conviction for the statutory offense of vehicular homicide or other involuntary manslaughter that only requires a showing of negligence will not involve moral turpitude even if it appears the defendant in fact acted recklessly
He will go through immigration in Heathrow anyway . Nobody will stop him from going through customs without his checked baggage . After coffee , he 'll have to go through security to get to the gate , using his boarding pass , and will go through customs again , but not immigration , on arrival in Scotland . I 've done this many times , both as the traveler and as the coffee companion .
You 're right that applying to the French consulate is fraught with difficulty and likely not to work . But you could try , if you are completely upfront ( do n't cheat and lie about your intentions ) , you do n't risk a refusal ( which would have all sorts of unpleasant circumstances ) but only a rejection ( the consulate will promptly decline to process your application and you should get your fee and documents back ) . If you try this , join a letter explaining why to your application , it might help too . A few other things you might try is <URL> ( if needed in a neighbouring country you can access easily ) or keep watching the schedule to see if new appointment slots open . In any case , three month waiting time is not acceptable ( people are not supposed to apply more than three months in advance ! ) so you can certainly try to contact the German consulate ( politely , do n't act entitled or angry even if you and I know they are at fault ) and ask if they can suggest a solution .
No , it is n't generally allowed but it is indeed foreseen by the Schengen regulation when the queues are particularly unbalanced . When it does happen , whether third-country nationals ( i.e. non-EU/EEA/Swiss ) are allowed to use other lanes is up to the border guards . The rules about this are defined in article 9 of the <URL> . 2 . ( a ) Persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law are entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign in part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) of Annex III . They may also use the lanes indicated by the sign in part B1 ( ' visa not required ' ) and part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III . Third-country nationals who are not obliged to possess a visa when crossing the external borders of the Member States in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 and third-country nationals who hold a valid residence permit or long-stay visa may use the lanes indicated by the sign in part B1 ( ' visa not required ' ) of Annex III to this Regulation . They may also use the lanes indicated by the sign in part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III to this Regulation . ( b ) All other persons shall use the lanes indicated by the sign in part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III . " Persons enjoying the right of free movement " means EU citizens but also members of their family travelling with them or joining them , even if they are not themselves EU citizens . Note that residence permit holders are also mentioned and can use the ' visa not required ' lanes ( because they do not , in fact , require a visa ) but not the ' EU , EEA , CH citizens ' lanes . Everybody may use the ' all passports ' lane , all the time . The same regulation also ( kind of ) provides for what you noticed : In the event of a temporary imbalance in traffic flows at a particular border crossing point , the rules relating to the use of the different lanes may be waived by the competent authorities for the time necessary to eliminate such imbalance . ( Without this , it would not legally be up to the border guards to ignore the rules , even temporarily . ) Why they would specifically invite residence permit holders to use the EU citizens lane is not clear to me . In principle , they should be subjected to the exact same ' thorough ' check than visa holders , including the stamping of their travel documents , so why not allow everybody to switch lanes ? The regulation does not provide for any distinction between residence permit holders and other third-country citizens . Maybe Dutch border guards think residence permit holders are somehow easier to deal with or less likely to need secondary evaluation and be refused entry but it seems questionable from a legal standpoint ( it 's either follow the rules detailed above or waive them completely , there is no mention of any possibility to allow specific people to use the EU citizen lane ) . The only exception to that principle are holders of residence permits as " family members of an EU citizen " , who are also generally people enjoying the right of free movement and therefore liable for a lighter check ( with no stamps ) than other residence permit holders and allowed to use the " EU/EEA/Swiss citizens " lane at all times .
Oh I know this pain . As a citizen you can presumably count as a permanent resident ( as you 've not officially emigrated to any other country ) of Australia , meaning that you could look at the policies of <URL> . I used them during a similar period in my life ( Kiwi here ) .
So basically it 's not just two countries that make up the difference . For example , as as Dutch citizen you can get a visa-on-arrival in Mozambique , while Sweden ca n't . Sweden has visa free entry into Vietnam , while Dutch do n't . Rather than list all the differences , I 'll point to these two Wiki pages : <URL> <URL> They list all the countries and the rules for the citizens - visa free , visa-on-arrival , and so on . It also means it 'll continue to be more up to date as the rules change ( eg this past year <URL> - go figure ! )
According to <URL> you can find cheetahs around Africa and Middle East . Image is in public domain One of the easiest places to see Cheetahs ( I saw a lot there ) is Masai Mara National Park ( Kenya ) .
This is a common situation , and it 's generally no problem . I 'll use A for the country you 're in , and B for the country you 're going to , but all the " flows " described here work equally well if you want to use your B passport to go to a third country . Case 1 : Same name , dual citizenship OK If you have the same name in both passports ( that is , same first name and last name , minor variations are OK ) , and both countries accept dual citizenship ( if you 're not sure , <URL> ) , the basic formula is : Show the airline the passport of the country you 're going to Show immigration the passport for the country you 're in In step-by-step detail , when flying from A to B and back : At check-in , show your B passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your A passport . ( In countries without exit immigration , like the US , you may need to show A as well at check-in . ) At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . And on the way back from B to A , just reverse the process : At check-in , show your A passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Pictorial representation for a UK/US dual citizen visiting the US , courtesy <URL> : <URL> Case 2 : Different names , dual citizenship OK If your names are different , but your countries are OK with each other : Book your flight with the name on your A passport . At airline check-in , show your A passport that matches the name on your ticket , and your B passport , that proves you 're allowed to enter . At exit immigration , show your A passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , at check-in , show your A passport only . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly back . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Case 3 : Same name , dual citizenship not OK Things get harder if one or both your countries does not accept dual citizenship , especially if they care enough to look for visas or arrival stamps . The key thing to understand here is that the airline is not a part of immigration . They do not care if you have multiple passports and they are not going to tell immigration if you do , all they want to know if whether you will be allowed in at your destination . So here 's one way to avoid letting A know you are also a citizen of B : Book a flight from A to B via a neutral third country C , where you do not need a visa . ( For example , Malaysia does not accept dual citizenship , so dual-citizen Malaysians often travel via Singapore . ) On check-in , show your A passport . At exit immigration , show your A passport . Fly to C. Connect to your flight to B . At arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , though , you will need a short detour : At check in , show your B passport . At exit immigration , show your B passport . Fly to C. On arrival at C , do not go to transfer , but instead go to immigration , show your A passport and get it stamped . ( Leave enough time for this ! ) If you need to check-in again , show your A passport . At C 's exit immigration , show your A passport again and get it stamped again . Fly to A . At arrival immigration , show your A passport . This will have a departure stamp from C , neatly hiding that you were actually in B. Beware that this is not totally foolproof , as a very careful inspection of your stamps will reveal that you were not in C for the whole time , but unless you 're North Korean , it 's unlikely you will be subjected to this level of scrutiny . Some people choose to go through immigration in C on the way out as well , so they get more decoy stamps . Case 4 : Different names , dual citizenship not OK If you have different names and your countries do n't like each other , you can still use the same method as above , but you 'll likely need to to book your A-C-A flight in your " A " name and your C-B-C flight in your " B " name .
Have you tried phoning the FRRO ( different from the FRO ) to ask them ? Google suggests you may be able to get the FRRO to issue you with an exit visa despite the missing residence permit . Experiences with the FRO seem more hit and miss , but you could always drop in and ask them if you have the time to spare ...
Spanish citizen <URL> to enter Guatemala for 90 days . I would therefore in general advise her to use the Spanish passport since there will be no questions at immigration . She can then have her Guatemalan passport renewed , once inside the country . If the immigration officer sees the expired passport , there is a chance that he will let her go through without question , but most likely he will check if there is anything wrong with her legal status . This might take time , cause questions etc. . I do not think the trouble is worth it if she can go through without any problems using the Spanish passport .
The Piedmont region in <URL> is pretty close to central Europe .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
end question
start question
Is separate DS-160 form needed for spouse for US B1/B2 visa ?
You will need to file separate DS-160 applications for your spouse , but the web site will make this a little easier for you . Once you complete your application , on the " Thank You " page there will be an option to create another application for your family member . When you choose this , it will automatically import some of the information from your form onto the next form , and so it will take less time to complete the second application . A further explanation is in the <URL> : When you select " Email Confirmation " on your Confirmation Page , you will be directed to a " Thank You " page . On the " Thank You " page you will see an option to create a family or group application . When you select this option , certain information from your application , such as destination , will automatically be imported to and displayed on a new application . Please note that if you use this option you must create an individual application for each family member or for each individual within the group . If one of the dependents has a different surname or nationality , for example , you can alter that data before submitting the application .
The official licensing authority in Namibia is the <URL> . The The Namibian Comunications Commission appears to have been replaced in <URL> . The CRAN web site is awful and I ca n't find anything on it . Instead , I searched for sites linking or mentioning cran.na and found the <URL> saying : Guest Licences for Radio Amateurs visiting Namibia In Namibia , there is only one application form which applies for all kinds of spectrum users ( from Commercial Broadcasting Service up to Citizen Band Service ) . This may seem unusual , but has been officially implemented by CRAN and thus has to be used also when applying for a guest licence . The site provides a link with an <URL> . You must attach a copy of your home licence and pay 60N $ ( approx USD$ 4 ) The cheapest way of paying your guest licence is in cash after your arrival in Namibia at the office of CRAN . Then your licence will be handed out directly to you . CRAN can send the licence to your contact person 's P.O.Box in Namibia if you pay in advance via the expensive electronic banking or via your local contact person . The issued guest licence is valid for the complete calendar year . I would recommend that you attempt to <URL> the site owners if you require further information .
The decision whether and for how long is made <URL> : At the port-of-entry , a U.S. immigration officer of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) decides whether to allow you to enter and how long you can stay for any particular visit , as part of the Admission process . Only the U.S. immigration officer has the authority to permit you to enter the United States . Six months is the normal maximum but this may be extended <URL> . Leaving USA terminates the validity of the visa , where that is single entry , or utilises one of the allowed entries where multiple entry . Returning from the EU ( after Christmas ) is a further entry , the duration of which is again up to the immigration officer -- and might be six months .
Not quite sure what the question is . You could book a tourist trip to the USA and ask for a visa for that . If you want to wait till April 20th after you get the ticket you need to check the <URL> to get a visa interview appointment and the processing time . I checked for Chennai and it 's a week to appointment and one working day to get a visa . Delhi is only 2 days longer . Aka you have enough time . Or are you asking whether you will be given the visa just for that ? We ca n't answer that . Attending a conference is a perfect reason for a <URL> but whether you have enough ties and funds is something only they will decide .
There is a long-standing principle at UKVI to avoid stipulating that a given piece of evidence is mandatory ; it means the guidelines are purposefully vague . As spelled out in the <URL> , the only mandatory requirements are ... A ' valid ' passport or some other ' valid ' identity document ( but ' valid ' is vague ) The fee From that law they created a policy that the passport be current with a blank page and that it be accompanied by a photo . Everything else is expressed with modal verbs , most often " should " and " may " . Having said all of that , let 's look at your question ... My company 's HR are ready to give employment proof , but not the info related to time off work . Is it mandatory ? While not mandatory it is a great idea to include something that shows you have accrued enough holiday for your visit . Lots of people on the Indian subcontinent interpret this as a No Objection Certificate ( NOC ) or a variant document and it has vectored on the net as a requirement . Your employment contract should spell out your holiday entitlement , include it . Your salary slips should list your unspent entitlement , include them . If they do not show your unspent entitlement , find something else that does . If the above will not work for one reason or another , you can make a personal attestation about your unspent entitlement . You need good credibility in order for that to work and you will need to explain why that info is n't in any of your employment documents . I heard that it is needed only for people who are working in government sectors . Kindly confirm this too . There is no reason to confirm or deny it ; as explained , the concept of a requirement is simply one that has vectored on the net . Any other sort of evidence is fine . Note that NOC 's are fairly unique to the subcontinent anyway . We can take a look at the <URL> itself . Examine the screen shot ... <URL> Based on this , it is safe to conclude that your company is providing what UKVI wants to see . And finally , from your question : " ... confirming that I have been give time off work and asked me to state whether this time off is paid or unpaid ... " This appears to be something you added independently ( probably somewhere on the net having to do with Indian nationals ) ; sometimes it 's great to include that information , but it is absolutely not mandatory .
The official Source of Truth ( tm ) : <URL> In particular : <URL> Your registered partner and extended family - siblings , cousins , aunts , uncles , and so on -- can ask the authorities in an EU country to officially recognise them as family members of an EU national . If they obtain recognition , they wo n't need a visa to enter that country -- they will receive the same treatment as your spouse , parents and children . EU countries do not have to recognise registered partners and extended family as your family members but they do at least have to consider the request . To avoid problems , contact the consulate or embassy of the country to which you are travelling well in advance to find out which documents your non-EU family member will be asked to present at the border . This will help to avoid unpleasant situations such as non-EU family members being refused entry because they do not have the required documents . Be aware that some countries may fail to apply EU law correctly and your non-EU family members may be denied some of their rights , as described here . In other words , if your wife is recognized as the spouse of an EU citizen and you are resident in the EU , she can indeed enter without a visa . If you are not resident in the EU , she will require a EU visa ( Schengen visa if you 're a Schengen country citizen ) , but this ( by law ) must be free and granted essentially automatically , all you need to prove is that you are married . But you 'd be well advised to sort this out in advance , and for a short tourist stay of less than 60 days , I do n't really see much advantage over <URL> .
Want to know if I can travel alone to UK and then can my wife join me later in UK once she get 's her standard visa ? That 's fine . This is not an unusual case . Your wife should explain this in her application . Will the Immigration Officer at the Heathrow airport allow her to enter UK ? If she has an entry clearance in her passport with all the implicit caveats ( not forged etc ) , then the IO will land her in the normal case . You should absolutely be in the arrivals gallery with a name tag or something else that makes you easy to identify in case the IO wants to ask you a question . It 's all very normal .
Good news . As a British citizen , assuming you 're visiting for under 90 days , you do n't need a visa . You can apply through the Visa Waiver Program under the <URL> ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) . <URL> : British citizens : please note that from 12 January 2009 all nationals and citizens of Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) countries - including the UK - will be required by law to obtain an ESTA travel authorization prior to traveling to the United States under the VWP . Our Visa section has full details of this on their Visa Waiver Program &amp; ESTA . It 's very easy to apply , costs $ 14 , and is valid for 2 years . <URL> . I 've done two applications in the past 4 years , and both were approved within days ( normally immediately , but the first time had some issue with their system confirming payment had gone through ) .
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
If your wife has an article 10 residence card , she does not need a visa if she travels with you . The UK 's residence card for the family member of an EEA national is an article 10 card . She is also entitled to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passports queue when she arrives in the Schengen area , even though she does n't have an EU , EEA , or Swiss passport , because she is a " person enjoying freedom of movement under Union law . " Your marriage certificate is enough to establish her right of free movement , but it is not by itself sufficient to exempt her from the visa requirement . This may account for the variation in the advice you 've received . The freedom of movement directive is <URL> . Beneficiaries of the right of freedom of movement are defined in article 3 . Paragraph 1 says : This Directive shall apply to all Union citizens who move to or reside in a Member State other than that of which they are a national , and to their family members as defined in point 2 of Article 2 who accompany or join them . Article 2 defines " family member " to mean , among other relations , the spouse . Article 5 , paragraph 2 says : Family members who are not nationals of a Member State shall only be required to have an entry visa in accordance with Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 or , where appropriate , with national law . For the purposes of this Directive , possession of the valid residence card referred to in Article 10 shall exempt such family members from the visa requirement . ( Emphasis added . ) Article 10 , paragraph 1 says : The right of residence of family members of a Union citizen who are not nationals of a Member State shall be evidenced by the issuing of a document called ' Residence card of a family member of a Union citizen ' no later than six months from the date on which they submit the application . A certificate of application for the residence card shall be issued immediately . The entitlement to use the EU/EEA/Swiss passport lanes is in the <URL> . Article 2 , paragraph 5 : ' persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law ' means : ( a ) Union citizens within the meaning of Article 20 ( 1 ) TFEU , and third-country nationals who are members of the family of a Union citizen exercising his or her right to free movement to whom Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 21 ) applies ; ( Emphasis added ) Then , in article 10 , paragraph 2 : Persons enjoying the right of free movement under Union law are entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) of Annex III . They may also use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part B1 ( ' visa not required ' ) and Part B2 ( ' all passports ' ) of Annex III . Thus , as long as she is traveling with you or joining you , your wife is a " person enjoying the right of free movement under Union law " and is therefore " entitled to use the lanes indicated by the sign shown in Part A ( ' EU , EEA , CH ' ) . "
Yes . From <URL> : You do not need to apply to change your nonimmigrant status if you were admitted into the United States for business reasons ( B-1 visa category ) and you wish to remain in the United States for pleasure before your authorized stay expires .
You should not rely on US Government to act on this in 2014 . It is far more likely that if it will happen in 2014 it will be late in the year and it might be better to apply and get a B visa instead of waiting for VWP to happen . There is a recommendation by the <URL> to the Santiago embassy to : Informal Recommendation 20 : Embassy Santiago should conduct a broad validation study of its B visa applicants in accordance with Bureau of Consular Affairs guidelines and prepare an analysis of the results as part of its new officer training , fraud prevention effort , and visa waiver evaluation process . And while this document is dated February 2013 given the inertia that US government has in implementation of changes I do n't expect this to take less then at least 1 year , so as of right now there is no published effective date on Chile joining the VWP . NEW INFORMATION As found on the <URL> a few minutes ago dated February 28 , 2014 : WASHINGTON -- Today , Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson , joined by Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Heather Higginbottom , Chilean Foreign Minister Alfredo Moreno and Chilean Ambassador Felipe Bulnes , announced the designation of Chile into the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) -- streamlining travel for thousands of eligible Chilean passport holders , while maintaining strong security standards . Starting May 1 , 2014 , eligible Chilean passport holders with both an approved Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) and an e-passport will be able to visit the United States without nonimmigrant visitor visas . So for the End of 2014 you should now be able to enter US under an ESTA .
No . As US permanent residents , <URL> : A foreign who has any of the following documents shall not require Mexican visa : a ) A document certifying permanent residence in Canada , USA , Japan , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , or any of the countries of the Schengen Area ;
No , you do n't need a visa to visit the US . A French citizen can visit for 90 days for business or leisure without obtaining a visa . What you need is a travel authorization ( " ESTA " ) , that you can apply for online . You can apply at the <URL> . There is a $ 14 fee .
The 1 USD is not a fee , it 's <URL> when overstaying your visa . There does not seem to be a possibility to extend the visa , once you are in Peru , but if you have the chance to <URL> and come back , you might be able to stay longer - specially as a tourist . If you are a resident citizen of the Netherlands , you should be able to get a 183 days visa on arrival for tourism . If you work there , this is a different issue however .
Despite that fact that many websites claim to offer them , there is no such thing as an e-visa for Vietnam . However in addition to normal consulate-issues visas , there is a " Visa On Arrival " available , however this works differently to visa on arrival for most other countries . In order to obtain a VOA for Vietnam for need to first obtain an official invitation letter , and this service is available via countless websites - some of them legitimate , some of them less so . TripAdvisor has a very good article on <URL> and I would strongly suggest reading it before you decided if a visa on arrival is right for you , and before picking a company to arrange the invitation letter . Be very careful when picking a company to use for this service - many companies go to great lengths to try and mislead you during the process . For example , www.vietnamvisa.govt.vn appears to be a legitimate Vietnam Government website - except it 's not . The government domain is " gov.vn " - this website has nothing to do with the government and is trying to use a similar domain to mislead you .
China has lifted most of the restrictions on trade in Chinese currency , so it has been possible to ( legally ) obtain renminbi outside China for a few years . When entering and leaving China , you are allowed to bring 20,000 CNY in local currency ( appr . 3,200 USD ) and 5,000 USD or equivalent in foreign currency ( source : <URL> ) . Assuming that you are in the United States , I ca n't tell if you are actually able to obtain Chinese currency there . Here in Germany , most currency exchange offices sell renminbi , but I would expect the exchange rates to be better in China . If you really have to exchange cash , check a site like xe.com for the " real " exchange rate and find a Chinese office , where the offered exchange rate is not much worse . My experience is that the best deal is usually to withdraw cash from a local ATM if you need paper money .
Strange choice of transit but not mine . There is no visa required for transit as long as do n't leave the terminal . All international departures happen in terminal D and the visa information from <URL> is as follows : China - Destination Passport Passport required . Document validity rules : Passports and other documents accepted for entry must be valid on arrival . Type : Ok China - Destination Visa Additional information : Valid visas or resident permits in expired passports are accepted if holding valid passport of the same nationality . Type : Notice China - Destination Health This information is for guide purposes only . Other health organisations may recommend alternative precautions . Passengers arriving within 6 days after leaving or transiting countries with risk of yellow fever transmission and not holding a yellow fever vaccination certificate are subject to vaccination upon arrival . At the airport of Dalian ( DLC ) passenger will be kept in quarantine for 10 days or deported . Exempt from Yellow Fever vaccination : Children under 9 months of age . Recommended Health and Vaccination precautions : Malaria prophylaxis . Malaria risk , including P. falciparum , exists in Yunnan and Hainan . P. falciparum resistance to chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine reported . Limited risk of P. vivax malaria exists in southern and some central provinces . There is no malaria risk in the urban areas . Recommended prevention in risk areas : B ; in Hainan and Yunnan : C . In Timatic , the recommended type of prevention is referred to as : - Type A ( very limited risk of malaria transmission ) - Mosquito bite prevention only . - Type B ( risk of P. vivax malaria only ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus chloroquine chemoprophylaxis . - Type C ( risk of P. falciparum malaria with chloroquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine resistance ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus atovaquone-proguanil or doxycyline or mefloquine chemoprophylaxis . - Type D ( risk of P. falciparum malaria plus reported multi-drug resistance ) - Mosquito bite prevention plus plus atovaquone-proguanil or doxycyline or mefloquine chemoprophylaxis , depending on local drug restistance . Chemoprophylaxis should be started preferably one week before departure and no later than the first day of exposure ; it must be taken with unfailing regularity and continued for 4 weeks after the last exposure . No prophylactic regimen is 100 % protective against infection , but even if it fails to prevent the disease it may , nevertheless , render the infection milder and less life threatening . Type : Notice Ukraine - Transit Visa Visa required . Transiting without a visa is possible for : Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours through Kiev Boryspil ( KBP ) . Type : Ok Ukraine - Transit Health This information is for guide purposes only . Other health organisations may recommend alternative precautions . Vaccinations not required .
Your UK visa refusal should have little to no bearing on your attempt to get a US visa - it is unlikely US immigration officials will even know about it . Staying in the US varies greatly based on where you are staying and the level of comfort you desire . You could easily spend several hundred dollars a night on a hotel in downtown New York City . At the same time , there are cheap solutions if you look for them . I 've found private rooms in a hostel in NYC before for about $ 60/night .
According to <URL> there is still visa required for Indian Citizens , though it will be less expensive then for the US citizens . As far as I can tell Visa On arrival is available <URL> with no further details an restrictions on countries have been made available : VISA AT ARRIVAL : THIS VISA IS FOR BUSINESS ONLY . THE APPLICATION AND FEES ARE DONE IN SURINAME There is a <URL> which one can purchase at <URL> but again it 's not available for Indian Citizens . So as you indicated in another one of your questions : more visas for you .
end question
start question
Is it safe to drink tap water in Seoul ?
Historically Seoul has had a number of issues with drinking water . Most recently the issue was n't the water itself , but the pipes that delivered it , which many people claimed introduced contaminates . I can still remember being told by someone I was working with there about 10 years ago that the water was safe to drink in my hotel , but not in their office block located a few blocks away - I 'm still not sure exactly how he came to that conclusion ! Over recent years the local government-run water supplier has made significant efforts to replace all of the " old " pipes , and has taken additional measures around treatment of water . The water is considered safe and drinkable under UN criteria , and although many locals still do not trust it , there 's little doubt that it 's as safe as tap water in any other major first-world city . There 's numerous more information available on <URL> website . Note that all of the above comments relate to the water in Seoul . If you 're heading outside of the main metropolitan area then things could be very different and I would suggest only drinking bottled water in those areas .
Sorry for answering my own question , but it looks like all flights currently go through larger Yemeni cities , and traveling by boat is likely to be just as dangerous due to Somali pirates . From the <URL> : There is a high risk of piracy in the coastal areas of Yemen . There have been attacks by pirates against all forms of shipping in and around Yemen 's waters and the Gulf of Aden . Pirates have been using motherships to attack shipping further than 1,000 nautical miles ( 1,850 km ) from the coast of Somalia . All forms of shipping are attractive targets for Somali pirates , including commercial vessels , pleasure craft ( yachts etc ) and luxury cruise liners ... maintain a high level of vigilance and to exercise extreme caution when anywhere near these waters . According to the International Maritime Bureau 's ( IMB ) Piracy Reporting Centre ( PRC ) , there were 217 attempted attacks of piracy with 47 vessels hijacked and 867 crewmembers taken hostage in the Gulf of Aden and off the east coast of Somalia in 2009 .
I went to Seoul in summer 2015 and I could use my Visa everywhere . I can not tell if there are some places which will reject your mastercard , most likely there will be but I 've stayed there for a month and I could pay and withdraw money without any issue . As far as I know , Koreans have plenty of credit cards and they use it on daily basis so you should not have trouble using yours . ;) I did not have my Mastercard so I could not try but most ATM were compatible with it . I did n't check for American Express since I do n't own an AE card . EDIT : see more details <URL> and <URL> EDIT2 : as said in one of the link , do n't forget to notify your bank that you 'll use your card abroad ... For security matter my bank was denying any operation from abroad , I had to tell them where I was and the dates of my travel . NB : I used a Visa credit card issued by French bank .
I travelled to Erbil two months back . You should not have any issues but it is not advised to stay for many weeks . The same is not the case with Kirkuk and Sulaymaniyah . During my stay I was advised to not leave Erbil city because of possibility of widespread terror attacks . However , i am not sure if this qualifies for all types of trips . It is not a place for tourism at this point of time . However , if you are on some sort of business trip it should be quite safe .
You do n't indicate what time of day you will arrive and depart , but Incheon Airport offers a series of <URL> of varying lengths and departing at various times of the day . The shorter tours are within the city of Incheon , which is a major city in its own right , whereas the 5-hour tours are of sights and sites in Seoul . While such bus tours are by nature superficial , they will give you a small taste of Korea beyond the airport spa . Because no planning effort is involved beyond purchasing the ticket ( and because they are accustomed to dealing with rushed travelers ) , they are far less stressful than trying to tour an unfamiliar city independently in just an hour or two . 1-hour <URL> in Incheon ; OR <URL> and " motor boat training center " 2-hour Over the <URL> to <URL> or <URL> and <URL> 3-hour <URL> and the Old Incheon Prefecture Government Building 3 1/2 - hour Incheon Bridge to <URL> , the port , and <URL> 5-hour <URL> in Seoul , <URL> , <URL> culture and crafts shopping district , <URL> ; OR <URL> gate and market district and <URL>
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
Luggage gets lost when : It does n't make it to the plane on time , or It is sent to the wrong place , or It is stolen wholesale . Checking in early reduces the risk of # 1 , and has no impact on # 2 , leaving only case # 3 to worry about . Breaking that down in turn , there 's basically two ways for bags to get stolen : Opportunistic theft of arrived bags from the baggage area ( = guy in suit " accidentally " picking up your suitcase instead ) . Obviously checking in early has no impact on this . Professional gangs of thieves in the airport itself spiriting away bags . Typically they 've got one accomplice checking for juicy items ( cameras , laptops etc ) in the X-rays , and another taking the bags thus spotted . Now odds are the " steal or not " decision is made pretty much instantly ( " Hey Bob ! Make sure the purple suitcase for flight XY123 falls off the conveyor belt , mmkay ? " ) , but maybe having a lot of time helps ? So if you 're in an airport known for theft and you 're checking in something you really should n't be checking in , then you might want to check in as late as possible . But if you 're sensible and put all your valuables in carry-on luggage like you should , then you have nothing to worry about from these guys , and checking in early will reduce the overall odds of it getting lost .
If you just care about terrorist attacks or ISIS activities , I can say that here is totally safe ( at least now ) . Although , as I mentioned in another post , some regions in Sistan-Baluchestan are the exceptions because of drug smugglers and some terrorists as well . On the other hand , if you care about political issues and somethings that are related to the government , I have no clear idea . Usually the UK and US citizens have some problems . However , I have personally seen several UK tourists in Tehran that were content with Iran . And finally , obviously there are thieves here too . You must watch out your pocket .
On top of what has been written by @toy and @user34936 , which I can support 100 % , I would like to give you the following advice : When traveling to remoter areas in Asia ( I would count Laos into that ) , and specially if you do not do so frequently ( several times a year ) , you are risking to get Diarrhea as a minimum and intestinal parasites as a worst case scenario where you run risk of severe organ damage in the long run . While the risk is , as mentioned , highest in India , there are 2 levels of caution that go along with the amount of inconvenience you have to face to execute them : Easiest level , should prevail in most developing countries in Asia , can be ignored in Japan , mostly also in Hong Kong &amp; Singapore for example : Do not drink Tap water Do not rinse your mouth with tap water after brushing your teeth ( sounds stupid , but you always ingest some of it , and if you follow step 1 , this is a direct consequence . That 's why a lot of hotels in Asia have small bottles of water now standing next to the sink instead of in the room ) Do not eat cold street food , specially fruits , ice cream etc. . Next level , should be observed in any remote , rural area of the developing countries outside of international hotel chains and in almost all of India : Do not eat any uncooked food , such as salads Do not eat unpeeled fruits and do never eat water melons . They are sometimes injected with water to make them heavier . Do not eat anything that has to have a consistent cooling chain without unfreezing such as ice cream , imported fish etc. . Basically do not eat anything that is not served by established restaurants or hotels that you would find in a tourist guide . be very careful with ice cubes . Rather drink what has been cooled in a closed container such as cans &amp; bottles than ice cubes . The issue here is that you have to decide how much you want to reduce your flexibility in the country to avoid a light diarrhea and how much experience you have when traveling across the world in remote places . You body will build up resistance against a lot of bacteria types if ingested in small quantities . However I know a person who lived in China and other places such as Hong Kong for all their life who got a parasite in India that caused a almost 100 % kidney failure and repeated operations over the following years . Also : While asking for bottled water might become quickly expensive since the hotels try to sell you Perrier etc , asking specifically for local bottled water is often a safe but very cheap alternative . Also consider that Diarrhea as such might not bother you too much , but dehydration and other consequences of that issue might cause more trouble that might severely disrupt the trip for you .
As a french hiker often going camping , here is what I know . In France , camping is regulated by the law named " Camping , aménagement des parcs résidentiels de loisirs , implantation des habitations légères de loisirs et installation des résidences mobiles de loisirs et des caravanes " from the " décret n ° 2015-1783 du 28 décembre 2015 relatif à la partie réglementaire du livre Ier du code de l'urbanisme et à la modernisation du contenu du plan local d'urbanisme " . Here is a link summarizing what you can / can not do : <URL> ( in French , but you can translate ) . This law makes the difference between a " bivouac " and " wild camping " . " Bivouac " is the term employed to nominated hikers that put a small tent for the night , as they may be too far from civilization . " Wild camping " however is more associated with people owning cars and putting a tent closer to the city , avoid hotel costs . Camping is especially forbidden in some protected areas such as in some National Parks , but each park has its own regulation . If you go to the Pyrénées , there are the National N03 , Regional park R43 and R46 ( see the map in the previous link ) . In N03 , " wild camping " is forbidden , and " bivouac " is authorized between 7PM to 9AM the next day , if you are at more than one hour walk to the park limits , or road access . In R43 ( Parc naturel régional des Pyrénées catalanes ) , " wild camping " is forbidden , but " bivouac " is okay close to the refuges or along the GRs ( the hiking ways ) . In R46 ( Parc naturel régional des Pyrénées ariégeoises ) , there are no specific legislation , so you have to follow the national regulation . It is in general forbidden close to the roads , and you should know that any bit of land belongs to someone . The law says that you need the approval of the owner to put your tent there , who may live miles away . That is the official legislation , but as a camper myself , I can tell you that no one will put you in jail for putting a tent for the night in a forest , just avoid the places where it is explicitly written on a sign . However , you should not leave any trace of your camp when you leave , so remember to take your garbage with you , and organize yourself for the " restrooms " . Have a safe trip !
Crossing into the West Bank itself is simply a matter of continuing on whatever road you were already on and passing a check point , ( though usually they are only checking anyone going the other way ) and it 's perfectly doable with an Israeli taxi , or any one else willing to take you there for that matter . Furthermore , it 's just as doable to procede from there into an Israeli settlement ; it 's just like driving into any other town . However , I would recommend finding out the best way to get there in advance from the person who lives there , as many roads can be much more safe than others . It is also perfectly possible to return to the fully recognized part of Israel , this time through an actual checkpoint , again in any Israeli vehicle . Whether you will have to pre - arrange depends on where you are ; your host will likely know local taxi options . However , for a journey to Tel Aviv it may be a good idea to pre-book regardless . In terms of general safety , both day and night it depends where exactly you are . But in all cases most likely people living there will say it 's safe enough for them to travel . At the same time there are other places that are probably statistically safer to be , so it really is up to your comfort level . This is another question that would be best for your host who is likely familiar with the exact roads you will be on . ( Also , obviously a taxi from Tel Aviv will cost quite a bit ) Getting to Palestinian towns from the west bank will be very different , as Israeli taxis will not go there , and there may be more security checks on the way in and/or out of the towns/cities . You will have to take an Israeli car into the west bank as above and then transfer somewhere to Palestinian transportation .
I can make no subjective comment as could one who lives in the region . If you are a US Citizen , the <URL> ( what a mouthful ) published , in April of 2015 , the <URL> which covers everything from what it calls terrorism to petty crime . This report is , of course , aimed for the US Citizen traveling to Israel , Jerusalem and the Gaza strip . A non-government page to visit for example , might be <URL> . Even though it is created and run by a single individual , the guidance is helpful , appears to be from someone who actually lives in Jerusalem , and is not all positive ( or negative ) . Carefully reading through both sites , IMO , you 're as safe ( or not ) in Jerusalem as anywhere else in the world , barring of course , actual war zones .
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
Milk is available at the only two supermarkets I 've been able to find in Vientiane and from the local convenience store chain , <URL> . There were one and two litre plastic bottles of regular and skim milk and one litre cartons of UHT milk . All the milk seemed to have Thai labels , not Lao ( though one of the companies is a Japanese company ) . This means it 's all imported from Thailand . Vientiane is only 20km from the border so I do n't know if the other corners of the country can get the fresh milk or only the UHT . Milk section of a Vientiane M-Point Mart . Soy milk is in a separate section to the left not in this photo . I 'm not sure if milk is available at the generic/independent minimarts which are much more common than supermarkets or convenience stores here . I 'm not sure if supermarkets or convenience stores exist outside the capital or the other larger cities . I assume the small minimarts will stock the same products in all towns and villages though . Now one thing I have noticed is that soy milk is very common here . The soy milk is also produced across the border in Thailand and is available at all the previous kinds of places plus even the stalls and stands on the sides of the roads . Perhaps it 's popular because it may enjoy a longer shelf life and be more suitable to being transported around the country in the hot humid conditions with bad roads in aging trucks . But of course I overlooked th fact that lactose intolerance is much higher in most of Asia than in the west and soy milk has no lactose . Compared to some soy milks it tastes very nice , comes in at least three varieties , including chocolate and an " energy " version : A bottle of Thai ไวตามิ้ลค์ ( Vitamilk ) I drank in Vientiane .
Realistically , assuming you can get permission to visit Tibet ( the permission for which is separate from the rest of China ) , the most dangerous part of a visit by a Westerner seems to be the actual flight into Lhasa Gonggar airport . This is recognized by many pilots as one of the most dangerous landings in the world . Please note that there have n't been more accidents than ' normal , ' it is just a very difficult landing which requires special training and only those pilots who are especially licensed for the airport are allowed to land at it . Crime against tourists in Tibet is almost wholly unheard of . There are the sorts of petty crimes that occur anywhere in the world , such as pick-pocketing at the markets , but by and large , tourists are not subjected to it . Enjoy your trip to the top of the world , and know that you 've gone to a place most of us have never or could never go !
I also read a lot of blog posts and heard stories about bus travel in Peru being dangerous . However , all the ones I was on were pretty good . I travelled in semi-cama and full-cama class , with a variety of companies . No problems with any , and most were pretty good at being on time , unlike a couple I had in Argentina . I travelled at night from Cusco to Arequipa , Arequipa to Lima , Lima to Mancora and up to and crossed the Ecuadorian border at night too . No problems at all . I heard the same about Colombia too , people were shocked that I 'd travel , but think logically - these buses go through these areas every single day and night , several companies . If there were problems every day , it 'd be in the news . It 'd be huge . This does n't mean you will be fine . Odds are you will be , but accidents do happen occasionally , everywhere . Be aware , keep your valuables with you ( and NOT under your seat ) , and when possible , travel with someone else as well , or get to know the people around you .
You 're proposing to bring this device through a security checkpoint : The more interesting question is , will they even realize that it contains liquid ? Seems doubtful to me , simply because it does n't look anything like a water bottle . Chances are it 'll go right through without comment . But based solely on the device 's construction I would not want to take it in hand luggage unboxed , before arriving at your destination , because of the risk of it being damaged . And if you 're going to declare it and pay import duties on it anyway , then you may as well leave it in its sealed packaging until you get home . Which means it 'll travel a bit large for hand luggage and you 're better off sticking it in your suitcase . Besides , what are you going to do with it on the plane ?
According to <URL> , yes : Despite the rigid separation between men and women on the ski lifts , and often on the courses themselves , visitors revealed that on the mountain slopes , in the hotels and inns , one could drink alcohol , hear female singles and mingle freely until all hours of the night . " Just like many other things in Iran , everyone simply turned a blind eye , " Dome explained . As a result , the resorts are an ideal love nest for many Iranian couples .
Maybe you are a bit too paranoid . I go to Paris quite regularly and I usually stay in hotels beyond the boulevard périphérique , for exactly the same reason that you mention . Personally , I never had any problem , nor did I feel particularly unsafe . However , when I go by car , I never park it in the street . I leave it in a closed or guarded car park . The hotel I am usually staying at is quite close to 2 metro stations . The way to the metro stations is safe , even after dusk . These areas can be a bit gloomy and It is true that some areas beyond the boulevard périphérique can be dangerous . Nevertheless the places where the hotels are located are okay . Note that in Paris " intra muros " there are gloomy and dangerous areas as well ... Wherever you stay and you go , do not forget that Paris is a large city , with everything this implies . But , when you stick to the usual cautions , you should have a safe stay , intra and extra muros .
This is definitely possible . I grew up in the Alps and I can think of at least a dozen places like that . The problem is that most of them are privately owned and it might not be so easy to get access to one . There is a <URL> about renting such huts in Switzerland , but unfortunately the listings are only in German . Note that even if some of the house is not totally isolated you can be quite sure to be alone if you go there in low season during the week as those are nowadays mostly used as holiday homes . You should be looking into something which is accessible only by walking to increase your chances of being let alone . Note that most of those places will have running water ( water being abundant in the Alps ) , maybe electricity via a solar panel but most likely no Internet .
end question
start question
What are some camping tips in general and at East Coast Park in Singapore ?
East Coast Park is a nice place for camping especially in Singapore . The first thing is that you 'll need to get a camping permit , which you can <URL> or at AXS self-service machines . You will only be able to do this if you have permanent residence or a long-term visa for Singapore as the permit requires you to enter an IC number or FIN ( and AFAIK , AXS machines only accept NETS payments for this particular transaction ) . You are n't allowed to have open fires , but there are many places in campsites that hire out BBQ pits for cooking for which again you can <URL> . Bringing your own BBQ pits is n't allowed unless on specific occasions ( public holidays , etc ) so that 's not an option . <URL> ( and to be honest , information does n't get more comprehensive than that ) . There is n't a lot you 'll be left wanting for that can not be solved by a quick trip to a convenience store , so camping at ECP is easy that way . Cycling is a one of the major activities to do when camping at ECP and the trails are fairly easy to attempt , can be done as a family activity I would say . You rent cycles for a day at fairly reasonable prices ( S$ 6-12 ) . <URL> is another place to consider camping ; feels a bit more secluded as it 's not on the mainland , and if you 're into off-road biking there are some good trails there . Camping at Pulau Ubin does not require a permit .
I do n't think there is any reason why you should n't start your visit in Venice and come to Milan later on . I suppose your explanation about flights is sound and reasonable , although there are plenty of flights to Venezia Tessera as well as to Verona airport . Normally , Milano is not considered worth visiting for more than one day , although there are monuments and museums here as well . If you can spare 10-15 days to visit Northern Italy , then you should be able to have at least a couple of days in Milan ( a bit on the expensive side as far as hotels are concerned ... ) , at least 4 in Verona if you plan to visit Lake Garda as well , then the rest for Venezia , but you should n't miss Padua and the Brenta Riviera with the various Palladio villas , Treviso and perhaps Asolo or Bassano del Grappa . " Acqua alta " may be a problem , but it is not all that frequent in early November , and quite often the weather is still pleasant . Enjoy your visit , whichever direction you will travel .
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
This is less than an answer , but more than a comment ... A large percentage of your travel budget will be spent on the cruise itself , given that it includes lodging , food , and transportation . As it appears you do n't have your heart set on seeing a particular part of the Caribbean , the next important question is : what is your " cruising style " ? I 've been on three cruise lines : Holland America , Royal Caribbean , and Norwegian . I 'd go on another cruise in a heartbeat on one of them -- because it fits the sort of traveling my husband and I like to do . If you like to dress up and eat high-end food , the cruise line you want is n't the one that caters to honeymooners on a tight budget or to families with small kids . If you like things to be super-flexible , you do n't want the cruise line that assigns you a nightly dining reservation at their one restaurant . And so on ... If you like upscale , be aware that all cruise lines put their best efforts into their longer cruises . I 've been on cruises ranging from 4-14 nights , and the experience ( and amenities ! ) pretty closely tracked with the trip length . Once you 've figured out what cruise line and trip length work for you , there are likely to only be a few options left . Take whichever of them works best -- there really are no bad Caribbean trips ( so long as the weather cooperates , of course ) .
The only real limitations are the meters themselves , some of which are active at unlikely times : read them carefully the posted signs about street-cleaning and such , so look for those signs and read them too -- the more obscure the rule , the more vigorously enforced it will be , so if the sign says " No parking 9am - 10am on the third Thursday of the month " , you can rest assured that at 9:01 on the fatal day , the meter-maids will roll through in their Cushmans , leaving drifts of tickets in their wake like autumn leaves . The meters are actually quite convenient . They take credit-cards , you can refill them remotely by phone , and so on . If you are going to leave it all day , find an unmetered spot or call a parking service like <URL> ( $ 15 a day ) .
First of all : is it legal ? Well , I have never heard about such problems too . Regarding Chornogora - yep , it is a kind of national park , there are even some official fees at some entrances , but all camping activities are pretty much allowed . The only places you may have legal problems at are country borders ( like Marmarosy chain ) - usually you have to get permission from local border post . However , there also are real nation parks like <URL> - camping is actually forbidden there . Second , is there the real danger of being attacked or robbed ? Can the camp or the rucksacks be left unattented for a few hours ? Never heard about robbery in mountains . However , usually we try not to leave camp unattended ( or at least close all entrances , pick money and documents along , etc ) . Third : in case of emergency , is it possible to get help from emergency teams ? Never had such a case , but yes , it is possible , especially at popular \ dangerous routes . Here is contacts of local emergency teams - <URL> ( yep , in Ukrainian :( ) . Anyway , you would better have a native speaker with you on the track - it will be much easier just to ask locals about right way or even get yourself out of some troubles .
I do n't know about other places , but when I visited Istanbul a few years ago I had the opportunity of seeing a ceremony of Whirling Dervishes in the former train station of Sirkeci ( where the Orient Express used to end its journey ) . It is held in the evening , I think more than once a week ( but I was there in late December , so perhaps it was more frequent than in other periods of the year ) . The tickets could be bought at the ticket office in the train station . I do n't know whether you are deeply interested in Sufi philosophy and traditions or if you are just curious ( the way we were ) ; if the latter holds , you may have a look at <URL> or even <URL> . If you are interested in getting in closer contact with this group , you may want to visit <URL> .
To bring this question to an answered state , I have a good friend in Malta who lives in Valletta and has a vacation flat in Birzebbugia . I put the question to her exactly as you asked it . Presumably by ' city ' and ' harbour ' you mean Valletta . You can not rely upon walking through the city to find vacant rooms . You may luck out or may not , but in Valletta the odds are against you . In the other cities you may need a working knowledge of Maltese to read the signs outside the smaller B&amp;B type of lodging opportunities . On the plus side , if one proprietor takes you in , then you are pretty well set for the rest of Malta with their referrals .
Recreation.gov lists camping and RV sites at U.S. national parks , forests and other federal land . The nightly fee shown is per site , and you 're allowed up to the maximum number of people shown for that site . ( I 've stayed at quite a few of these campgrounds . ) When you actually go to book your campsite , the web site will tell you the maximum number of people allowed to camp on the campsite . Your fee covers that many people . If you want more people than are covered by a single campsite , you 'll need to book an additional campsite . Note that at this particular campground , <URL> and allow up to 8 people . If you were planning to do tent camping , you may find that space for your tent is limited , as these sites are listed as having a gravel surface . If you 're RV camping , check the details for each specific site before you book , as some will accommodate longer vehicles and some only shorter vehicles . In other national parks and forests you 'll find tent sites , or a mix of tent and RV sites . A sample listing from Yosemite National Park : <URL> . When you check in , the person who booked the campsite must be present and show photo ID . Also be aware that sites within National Parks will almost always have a separate entrance fee to enter the park , while most National Forests do not have entrance fees . This is usually around $ 20 per car but it varies by park . This particular one is in a national forest which does n't have an entrance fee , but it 's something to be aware of . If you plan to visit several national parks you may find buying an $ 80 <URL> is cost effective for covering the entrance fees , and the ( senior and disabled ) passes also sometimes give you other park services for free or at a discount . You can buy one in advance , or get one " at the door " at the first national park you visit .
As <URL> answer shows , wind is the primary determinant of the difference in speed . The <URL> is a prevailing wind that typically is going somewhere over the United States , and runs typically from the West Coast to the East Coast . As such , there is a prevailing headwind ( - mph ) going east to west and a prevailing tailwind ( + mph ) going west to east . The path of the jet stream is highly variable ( its usually shown on weather maps , because it is the primary determinant of weather ) , but can be usually thought of as a U shaped curve that on average goes from say , Oregon , south to Texas , and back up to say , Pennsylvania . How deep it goes , and how far north or south it is on any given day , can be off by several states . That 's also why flight times can vary so much from the printed value .
The earlier accepted answer by JonathanReez was written in 2014 . From December 2015 , <URL> .
Japan does not have a general " <URL> " like Scandinavian countries , wild camping on public land is theoretically illegal and wild camping on private property requires the landowner 's permission . That said , both rules are only loosely enforced and there 's a bit of a tradition of " <URL> " ( 野宿 nojuku ) in Japan : simply put , if you pitch up a tent or even sleep on a bench in an out-of-the-way place so that you do n't disturb anybody and do n't make a mess , you 're unlikely to be disturbed either . I 've done this a few times and never had a problem , just pitch your tent late and head out early , or ask permission . ( courtesy me and my tent ) Also , Japanese campsites tend to be pretty cheap , eg . the view above in <URL> cost me all of & yen ; 500 and that included showers . Hokkaido has lots of similar camping options , occasionally even including a nearby natural hot spring ( eg . Wakoto near Lake Akan , Onuma near Hakodate , etc. ) For the specific case of Daisetsuzan , these are some pretty serious mountains and the traverse is not an easy hike . While there are campsites , some of them free , most people opt to stay in the huts , which are cheap and considerably more comfortable if there 's bad weather , plus you do n't have to lug a tent around ! See <URL> and , in particular , <URL> for details .
So , you have got a lot of questions there at once , let me address two of them I do know about . Netherlands In the Netherlands this has been possible for quite a while and was originally called paalkamperen ( though it seems it has officially been renamed sometime in the past 2 years ) , however it must be noted that this is bound by a lot of rules . Most importantly every spot has a designated number of tents that are allowed ( normally 3 small tents ) , if you arrive too late and they are taken you are n't allowed to camp there . Beyond that you are n't allowed to leave any trash , no loud music , 10 meters from the sign , no more than 72 hours , no campfires etc. etc. . Either way , a list can be found <URL> . All of this is in Dutch though , so good luck with Google Translate . Belgium Inspired by the Dutch , Belgium has recently set up a similar iniative called <URL> . It seems the rules are somewhat similar , though once again all information is in Dutch . Differences seem to be that it 's max for 48 hours and that you will find water pumps more often than in the Netherlands ( do note this is not drinking water ) . United Kingdom From what I have heard this is not allowed whatsoever in the UK , but if it is I would love to hear about it ( still hope to go hiking in scotland some day ) . Important to understand These locations really are n't meant for tourists . Not in the sense of that you are n't allowed to stay there , but you should note that not only information online is only in Dutch , but if you arrive on these locations you will find all signs to be in Dutch only as well . All in all these locations are meant for ' locals ' and as a tourist it 's not going to be the best holiday experience ever ( they can be hard to find , etc. ) . Either way , <URL> might be worth checking out as well , although it 's once again in Dutch it does give a good overview both of the Dutch and Belgium situation .
Yes , there are several , and most run multiple services a day . Most will stop along the way though - rather than being a direct service . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Prices and times vary , so it 's best you have a look and choose the best for you and your group .
It 's fairly normal in many parts of Europe that regular non-entertainment , non-tourist oriented shops keep regular business hours and do n't open in the evening . This is especially true of smaller shops . The historical , economic and social reason is simple - shop-workers like to have a life . They do n't want to work evenings any more than you do , and most shop owners do n't want to pay staff to work evenings unless there is the trade to support it . Europeans have n't bought into the idea that ' shopping is entertainment ' , or that everyone should be able to buy plumbing supplies at 2am . it is n't a hard and fast rule . The bigger the city , and the bigger the store , the more likely it is to be open later . You will almost always find a big grocery store that opens well into the evening , and often bigger department stores on the outskirts of the town open late too . But smaller stores in the centre of town usually do n't . Restaurants , pubs , clubs etc. do of course open late . For essential services like a pharmacy there is usually one that is open late in most towns , on a rotating basis .
The best advice you can get is from the guy that work late night in your hotel . Ask for things that he/she does in their free hours . Why late night ? Usually they have some concierge services that work only during the day and try to give you the standard advices . I also got some very good deals asking taxi drivers but the better ones were from bus drivers ! So , the advice is : ask someone local . Try something like : " what would you do if you want to ... "
Looked in the Chilean Ministry of Tourism site and they have a <URL> where you can search for campings in specific regions os cities . Besides that I search the Google and found some others like <URL> which seems a good source , even though I ca n't be sure of how accurate it is . Mind that Chile is a country with many volcanoes and they may affect your camping plans . Be sure to check <URL> for updates on volcanoes activities .
While I have n't been myself , I 've done some research so figured I may as well share . For tours and excursions : <URL> - desert safaris , and they describe a sea of sand stretching as far as the eye can see . They have half day , full day and custom trips - which could include camel safaris , or camping under the stars . <URL> - promote themselves as more environmentally-focused tourism . As for accommodation , you have n't really specified budget , medium or high : For budget - <URL> sounds the most fun and scenic , with " nice garden with trees and fire pit , where the staff will sit at night with guests . Roof terrace with a view of the oasis and Shali " ( review on Wikitravel ) For medium - <URL> - sounds pretty smart for good value , and has some exotic local foods on the menu - date omelet , lamb casserole or vegetarian tajin , each flavored with fresh herbs of the oasis . For deluxe - two amazing and different options - the <URL> - with no electricity , the rooms are softly lit with a dozen beeswax candles , and around the corner , the Tamazigh , a smaller hotel , with a spring-fed pool and some rooms made entirely of salt !
The <URL> has a page about your rights to camp in Iceland . Camping with no more than three tents is allowed on uncultivated ground for a single night , unless the landowner has posted a notice to the contrary . However , campers should always use designated campsites where they do exist . Do not camp close to farms without permission . If a group of more than three tents is involved , these campers must seek permission from the landowner before setting up camp outside marked campsite areas . So , if there is no sign , and the land is n't being used to grow things , you have the right to camp there for one night . That is pretty much all the law says . So , yes you can camp at the side of the road , IF there is a place to park your car . You should not park your car on the land . Do not drive off the road or track . Motor vehicles can leave marks that last for generations . Driving off roads or tracks is against the law except when the ground is frozen and covered in snow . See further information under " Practical Information/Driving in Iceland " . Staying away from houses is just a basic courtesy . The best rule of thumb to follow in my experience is to never be close enough that you can see anything in the windows , and definitely stay away from gardens and obviously enclosed personal space . 300 meters at the minimum . Sources : <URL> my own personal experiences camping in the wild in Iceland , Sweden and Finland .
The usual commercial problem with sleeper trains is that the vehicles carry significantly fewer passengers than a seated vehicle and often either can not be used at all in daytime , or are stuck at the same capacity as they have overnight . The standard capacities for a European train carriage ( 26m long , with a toilet ) are 36 for a sleeper , 54 for a couchette ( roughly hostel-equivalent accomodation ) , 57 for a first-class seated carriage and 76 for a second-class seated carriage . The proportions will be similar for buses . This means that the sleeper cars have to earn enough money from fewer passengers doing one overnight journey to match several daytime journies for a seated car - but the sleeper is generally more expensive to buy and more expensive to run ( overnight pay for the driver , and usually attendants in addition to the guard/conductor ) . This means that fares have to be a lot higher for a sleeper to make a profit . Sleeper trains have been run by European railways as a loss-making public service , but are being wound down as railways become more commercial . Sleeper buses are going to have a similar set of problems - they will cost more to buy than a conventional bus , and will carry fewer passengers , and will have higher running costs ( at the very least , the bedding will need to be changed and washed ) - and they ca n't be used for daytime journeys , so they will probably sit in the middle of the day . That means they will need to charge a substantial fare premium over a seated coach to make a profit ( at least double and more likely triple the fare ) . In countries where there are good alternatives like car rental or cheap flights , then this is likely to limit the market . Unless they can offer something distinctive ( like an early morning arrival in a city where the airport is not allowed to have night landings ) , they may struggle to get passengers . If there is n't an existing regulatory regime for getting sleeper buses approved , then the costs of getting the government to create one are likely to be too great for an operator to be prepared to pay - and note that some countries prohibit them entirely . Germany is a really important one , as many of the likely routes in Europe would run through Germany , but the German government banned sleeper buses in 2006 .
end question
start question
Can I claim miles if I bought the Tickets but did n't take the flight ?
No This is specified in the <URL> . Specifically ( emphasis mine ) , section 2.3.2 : For each actually flown segment of a fully paid scheduled flight operated by Lufthansa , a joint operator or a Miles &amp; More partner company , the member 's account will be credited with miles -- subject to Sections 2.3.6 and 2.3.7 . and section 2.3.6 : Any mileage credit is also excluded for unused , reimbursed , lapsed or unlawfully obtained documents ( tickets , coupons , etc. ) . The same applies in other cases of non-utilization or the refund of the service qualifying for earning miles .
The rental desk often wishes to see that the credit card is issued in exactly the same name as the driving licence . If you and your father share a name or a first initial it would probably be acceptable , but it seems to me a bit risky . A better solution is to ask your father to take out a second card on the same account , but in your name . This is called a " supplementary card " . He will be liable for any spending that you do , but the card will be in your name .
<URL> To date it only mentions police checks . Never does it talk about automatic checks . Indeed the motorway vignette is a 2-part sticker . One part is to be stuck to the windshield , whilst the other is to be kept as a proof of purchase and is to be shown when being checked by police . The reasoning here is that it would be somewhat hard to show the proof of purchase to a camera driving by an automatic control . Quoting from the linked site : A proof of payment of the fee is a 2-part sticker . Part one of the sticker is to be placed on the inside of the windscreen . Part two of the sticker is to be retained . [ ... ] During police checks , both parts of the sticker are required . Indeed the rest of the internet seems to agree with this - for example <URL> . It is therefore safe to assume that , to date , the payment of a motorway sticker for vehicles with a gross mass < 3.5 t in Czech Republic is checked only when one gets stopped at a manned police control point . In other words , there seem to be no automatic controls for such vehicles . Lorries and other > 3.5 t gross mass vehicles however have their own automatic toll-payment mechanism , <URL> . Having said this , at the time of writing the penalty for driving with an unvalid/expired vignette or without one are of ( <URL> ) : Fine of up to CZK 5,000 or a penalty notice of up to CZK 500,000 in administrative proceedings .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
Etihad has <URL> listed that you agree to by buying a ticket . Section " 15.2 BAGGAGE " states the maximum values of claims that can be done , please refer to this section for the amount that you can claim . The " 8.8 COLLECTION AND DELIVERY OF CHECKED BAGGAGE " section states that : 8.8.2 Only the bearer of the Baggage Check and Baggage Identification Tag is entitled to delivery of the Checked Baggage . We accept no responsibility for checking the identity or authority of the bearer of the Baggage Check and Baggage Identification Tag or for checking that such person has any right to collection . 8.8.3 If a person claiming Checked Baggage is unable to produce the Baggage Check and identify the Baggage by means of a Baggage Identification Tag , we will deliver the Baggage to such person only on condition that he or she establishes to our satisfaction his or her right to the Baggage . So essentially , you agreed that you can not receive the luggage from them ( lost and found or as a normal luggage transport from the belt ) if you do not either have the tag or proof that the luggage is yours . However , section " 15.4 PROCESSING OF BAGGAGE CLAIMS " does require you to provide proof of purchase for the items you wish to get a refund for , but does not explicitly require you to have a luggage tag to process the claim as such . They should process your claim and search for the luggage and also refund you if you can produce the proof of purchase for the lost items . Please note that there are many factors in this topic such as where you live , if this was a code share or not and so on . Further , a lot of items are often excluded from claims such as laptops and valuables . You might want to discuss first with the airline for what you want to have a claim , if they will refund the lost items in the first place according to their rules and then check if it is worthwhile to proceed with a claims process . If you can not claim refunds for any of the items lost since you do not have proof of purchase or if the items are excluded anyhow , a claim process might not be meaningful in the first place . IF they claim that they do not have to run a claims process for you , ask them about the policy and where this regulation is stated . Their conditions of carriage on their website do not allow the conclusion that a tag is required for a claim process .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
It 's not necessary to have a refusal stamp in your passport . The fact of your visa refusal will be recorded in the <URL> , and the information will be available to the consulates and border officers of all Schengen countries . The same reasons for refusal that are ticked on your refusal notice are also recorded . Thus , all Schengen states will be aware that you have had a previous visa refusal from Germany , and the reasons for the refusal that the consulate gave to you .
Wikipedia is actually quite useful for that . It has a <URL> . I can easily find flights to some of them on the usual search engines , mostly with TAP through Lisbon . <URL> , the flag carrier , also appears to offer many flights . If you want to do a " broad search " , without specifying an airport , you can also use <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . All three accept a country name as destination and the first one even searches other modes of transportation and some charter/low-cost carriers . If you do n't find what you want through the search engines , you can also check the airport pages on Wikipedia . There is an article about most of them , typically with a mostly up-to-date list of destinations and carriers . Thus , you can for example easily find out that TUIFlyNordic offers flights to <URL> from Arlanda ( apparently sold through <URL> ) .
I suspect your cheapest option would be to find a round-trip that goes to Vietnam via Taiwan , which will be priced competitively with other US-Vietnam flights , then add a stopover in Taiwan on way over , which would typically cost around $ 100 extra ( YMMV ) . Your two options for this would be Taiwanese carrier China Airlines and EVA Air , or if you flip the itinerary and stop over in Vietnam , Vietnam Airlines . As tickets like this are difficult to impossible to book online , I would recommend <URL> and then using a bricks 'n' mortar travel agent to do the actual booking .
Yes , you can buy UK train tickets online with the provision of collecting them at the station . The only problem is that ticket vending machines at stations typically only accept <URL> and thus with your foreign Visa / MasterCard , you may not be able to pick up your tickets unless it 's a chip-and-PIN card . For long-distance journeys , <URL> does has an international delivery option which costs an additional 7.50 GBP ( although if you book early you can also get cheap ' advance ' tickets ) . If you do have a chip-and-PIN card , then sites like thetrainline provide you a unique one-time ID - this , along with your card details allows you to print your tickets out at the station itself . For most short distance journeys , you can buy tickets at the station itself . This is not a problem when the station is staffed ( during work hours ) , but can be when it 's not as you will again find yourself unable to buy from ticket vending machines . You can buy your tickets on the train itself when the guard comes checking tickets , but the portable payment system they use usually does n't support anything other than chip-and-PIN cards . Even with chip-and-PIN cards I have often found payments do not get cleared ( PIN is accepted , but transaction is declined ) so it 's best not to rely on that . In that case you have to make sure you carry enough cash on you before you get on-board a train . You may also be interested in <URL> - you can find how much your savings will be by going to the ' train tickets ' section on most train operators ' websites . As mentioned in a previous answer , you also may find it <URL> .
There is a EUR 430 allowance but it 's <URL> . So if you want to sell them , you 're not OK , no matter their value . Incidentally , even a single brand new Apple Mac Book for your own use would not be OK either because it would be over the limit ( bringing back your own used laptop is a different question ) . It was a long time ago ( before the EU rules detailed in the link above ) but someone from my family once got in trouble for a handful of baby napkins or something like that . The issue is not merely the value but the fact that having several identical items , especially with receipts or intact packaging is taken as a sign that the goods are new and you might want to sell them instead of carrying them for your personal use . Under this logic , the answer to the title question would therefore appear to be " one " even if there is no explicit limit . A suitcase full of identical laptops is certainly likely to attract attention .
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
The bag will remain on the claim belt until eventually an airport worker removes it and takes it to lost property . If the claim belt is used for many flights at a busy airport then of course that could be a long time ( all day , perhaps ) . It is not unusual for international bags to go unclaimed for a long time ( many hours perhaps ) because of immigration delays . In most places bag delivery is contracted out to the local airport or a local contractor , so the airline will not be concerned . The bag tag barcode on the bag identifies the baggage in the global baggage computer system . Information there also includes your name and telephone number , which might be used to contact you . However in all probability no one will care that much . Some identification may be required to retrieve the bag later . If there is a customs concern the airport may be unable to release the bag to you until that is settled . When there was a problem at London Gatwick last year , British Airways told customers to go home instead of waiting all night ; their bags were subsequently delivered to them by courier .
If the flush mechanism does n't work Flush manually : In fact in many developing countries or even elsewhere such as out in the bush you can find modern toilets without running water . All you need to do is find a large container , fill at as full as you can manage , and pour it into the bowl . The faster you poor and from the greater height the better . But start slow and low because if you are too aggressive you can cause icky splashing . The mechanism is often easy to fix : Take the lid off the cistern . Be careful if it 's ceramic it will be heavy . You can break it or your toe if you drop it . There is usually a string , wire , or chain connecting some kind of lever , float , and rubber seal . Often this gets caught on something causing the plug not to reach the seal or not to close it fully . Sometimes the string , wire , or chain has come loose from one end and can be reattached without any special tools . Sometimes it can help to bend the arm the float is attached to for fine adjustments if the plug almost reaches the seal but not quite . If the bowl is blocked See if there is a plunger near the toilet or in a cupboard . If your 5-star hotel has a kitchenette and there 's a plunger there but not in the toilet , then maybe throw it away after cleaning up , or at least leave it in the toilet room . If there is no plunger to be found then the " manual flush " method above may be stronger than the built-in flush if you can drop in a lot of water at once from a great enough height without making a mess . This is much safer in " low water " toilets than with the " high water " toilets typically found in North America . Let it soak and come back from time to time when the water level has gone down and flush again . Again be careful with " high water " toilets as in North America - they are notorious for overflowing in such conditions . If you are a man , aim your stream at the obstacle each time you go . This will break it up . These techniques are hampered if you used too much toilet paper . If you are in a country where you do n't know the language , get online and look up the local words for " hardware store " and " plunger " . In my experience the latter can be quite tricky . I was in this situation once in Berlin , found at least half a dozen words for " plunger " , most of which must 've been regional words only known to people in other parts of the German-speaking world ! I also could n't find a hardware store and could n't find a plunger in a discount store . ( Lidl style or 1-euro-shop style ) DO NOT USE DRANO !! Caustic pipe un-blocking products are not intended for use with toilets . They can melt the wax used to seal the ceramic toilet to the pipes . You can create a far worse situation this way . ( Non-caustic products should be fine though . ) If all else fails You can use this situation to work on your problems of finding natural bodily functions embarrassing . Go tell somebody working at the hotel . If it 's a 5-star hotel they specialize in being discreet about far far worse things their guests might do . If you can not bring yourself to overcome this personality defect then you can leave an apology note somewhere the housekeepers will find it before finding the surprise you left them . You can even include a tip . The housekeepers have definitely dealt with this situation and much worse before . If you just leave it they are pretty used to that .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
Since Cathay is HK ailines and all planes are registered in HK , so they follow HK law . Based on HK Law ( <URL> ) , spearfishing gun is arm . The Sect 2 of the ordinance consider any harpoon or spear gun , however powered or size , as arm . However the law does not rule the ammunition of spearfishing gun . Base on sect 8 , you may take spearfishing gun on CX flight if you stay in restricted area . However , the items should be put in checked luggage , and also <URL> There is no other specific rules related to carry general diving equipment on flight in HK , except gas tank and arms .
As long as you have a UK visa I do n't see why your expiring residence permit should matter . Make sure you enter the UK with the UK visa and not with the residence card .
Frankly , the ' best ' raw freely available interface is ITA Matrix . While you ca n't actually book flights on it , it allows you to specify any number of airpots , combinations , routing codes and more - it 's really powerful . It then also breaks down the booking codes , so that you can in theory take those to a travel agent and they can match the route . Or , once you see that the best flight from A to B via H is with Airline Z , you then start looking at booking sites for that flight with Z , or directly on Z 's website . For amazing detail on how to use it , as well as its undocumented features , <URL> . In some ways it 's like a form of programming when you look at it , example :
end question
start question
What are the differences between French road signs and American road signs ?
About the closest way that I 'm aware of is the category for this on Wikipedia . Of course , it 'll still require you to click through each one . <URL> <URL> That European comparison is amazing , and I 'm hoping another answer appears with something similar , but this is the best I can locate . Note : even on a state-by-state basis , in the US , <URL> .
I do n't know why there are no road maps of Iceland - but to answer the implied question of other ways of getting Iceland maps the following may be helpful . When I 've needed navigation data for Iceland I 've used <URL> , on a Garmin device . It looks like it should be possible to get them to work on a TomTom for more details see <URL> . I 've got no experience using them on TomToms so I 'm afraid I ca n't offer any more advice on how to set it up .
There are many distinct and rivalling royalists groupuscules in France so it seems unlikely that there is one answer to this question . It 's not explicitly royalist ( or even political at all ) but the <URL> tends to be associated with the most conservative quarters of French society , including some royalists . In France , one of their most well-known centers is <URL> . It 's not far from the Seine so it might be the source of the rumour you heard . Otherwise , <URL> ( you will note that a number of these masses are celebrated following the tridentine rite and some of the clerics and churches involved are , in fact , associated with SSPX ) .
It 's called SAPSAN , there are 7 trains in both directions Saint-Petersburg > Moscow and Moscow > Saint-Petersburg . Here is link to <URL> ( <URL> ) Prices are <URL> ( <URL> ) . There are business and economy class tickets available . The average journey is no longer than 4 hours in one direction . All trains serve every day except train 154 ( runs only on Mondays and Saturdays ) .
I do n't think that selling genuine leather follows from stating to be an authorised reseller . Rather I think that at best the sign is saying that the seller has paid the licencing fee to the council of Florence , which legally authorises them to carry out their trade and have a market stall . The idea being that it is forbidden to show up at the market in the morning and pitch your stall anywhere you want unless you are legally permitted to do so . Although I do not wish to speculate on the genuineness of the permit sign you saw , I wrote because it could very well be that the permit is fake . However neither I nor you are for starters authorised to check this , nor do we have the knowledge and expertise to do so . Nevertheless as a tourist you should indeed care about your seller being an authorised one , since this effectively means that their business is registered and that they are more likely to pay taxes on their earnings . On the other hand an unregistered unauthorised seller is a nobody ( and a felon ) in the eyes of the law from both a professional and a fiscal point of view . Two problems arise if you happen to do business with the latter : You could very well be accused and convicted of receiving stolen goods ( this is a penal offence under art. 712 of the criminal code ) or receive an administrative sanction of 1.000 EUR ( got violating art. 1 comma 7 of the Decreto Legge n. 35/05 converted by law 80/2005 and subsequently modified by law n. 248/05 and law n. 49/06 ) . <URL> From a moral point of view you would be helping that person evade taxes . This is not exactly a minor point , but a complete discussion on the topic would be out of place here .
Well I can be evil and if people complain , I call them insensitive because I ( genuinely ) have no sense of smell ;) However , logically you do have a few options : hand-wash - a wash-cloth and some soap goes a long way , and for some reason even though the water is cold , it 's never as bad as stepping under a cold shower . deodorant , lots of it . make sure you have clean ( or your closest-to-clean ) clothes on , minimising the risk of odour , and still helping you to feel fresh . wet-wipes / baby wipes . It 's slow , but hey , if it works ... do what our salt-flats tour group did in Uyuni - made a group pact to not shower , so that nobody had to deal with the ice-cold water ( ! )
The ITA Matrix software was developed by MIT engineers . <URL> ( as well as other <URL> ) . Quoting from <URL> : In the mid-nineties , a group of MIT computer scientists took aim at a complex computing challenge that had plagued the travel industry for three decades : how to quickly , consistently and accurately identify the best available airfares without relying on high-cost , low-efficiency mainframe computers . The results of their work was a revolutionary airfare pricing &amp; shopping engine called QPX . The beta version of QPX was first introduced to the public in November 1999 , and Orbitz became the first customer in 2001 . On April 12 , 2011 , Google acquired ITA Software , and shortly thereafter launched Google Flight Search , an incredibly fast and easy way to search and plan travel . So the Matrix is n't better nor worse than Google flights , since the former relies on the latter when looking for flights . It 's just a matter of using one tool versus the other . Personally I stick with the Matrix because I 've grown fond of the interface . The main feature difference would be that you can purchase some plane tickets via Google Flights , whereas the Matrix itself does not allow you to do so . Moreover , the ITA Matrix seems to give you many more search options than Google Flights . Finally , Google Flights , being a Google product , will integrate with other Google products whereas the " pure " Matrix might not always .
I found two rental companies apparently located in San José , Costa Rica : <URL> ( US$ 55-80 per day , minimum 3 days ) <URL> ( US$ 90-145 per day ) Prices as of April 5 , 2012 .
I you see the trend of tourist coming to Nepal by land in 2013 . It shows more than 200000 tourist come from land and obviously from India . There are different route for coming to the border of Nepal , Some people also take train also . There are different entering route from Delhi , some famous are Bhairahawa , Birgunj , Mahendranagar . But connecting point is Narayangarh . Rode upto Narayangarh is better safe and construction is also going for widen up . But rode from Narayangarh-Muglin-Kathmandu looks danger as Tom said above specially in Rainy season .
Recently came back from the trip . Ganzi is an option for better accomedation ( more options ) , and we did stayed there on the way back from Maun . Unfortunately , it was too far from Gaborone for us ( 670 Km ) , and added another 100 Km to the trip . We did found a place to stay in closer to the middle : Kang village which is 420 Km from Gaborone and about 400 Km from the Namibian border post . There are several guest houses and one <URL> , fueling station and convenience store . The second night we stayed across the Namibian border in <URL> .
The tourist information offices in Ireland ( <URL> ) sell booklets with maps of campsites . I got one in the Dublin office for $ 5 . It lists loads of campsites , has some photographs of them , lists details ( opening days , phone numbers , directions , facilities , etc. ) . They also sell booklets of B&amp;B 's / Hotels . That has an overview map , but would n't count as a street atlas . As far as I know most road atlases ( which can be bought almost anywhere , in many bookshops and newsagents around the country ) will mark campsites , they wo n't have the level of detail ( like phone numbers so you can ring ahead and book or get directions ) that the one from the tourist information office will have , so I recommend supplimenting your street atlas with this campsite directory . Are you camping , or taking a caravan/mobile home . ( Caravaning in Ireland has other problems )
There are political reasons behind this and I believe that this is n't the appropriate website to discuss this . Anyway , you can find cheaper rail and air tickets for the BCN-MAD route . Try with <URL> for instance . This website returns prices for airlines and Renfe trains . I 've tested for you some dates and you can fly for less than 30 euros and go by train for less than 40 euros . For example , on february 21th go by air is 27 euros ( Vueling ) and go by rail is 32 euros ( renfe ) . So , the response is : going by high speed train is very expensive but " slow " train has a reasonable price .
For international flights I usually try to be at the airport 2-3h before departure . So adding approx . 45min for EWR - Manhattan and approx . 45min for Manhattan - JFK , there would n't be much time left for to eat anything besides a quick meal in McDonald 's .
From the Ukrainian point of view , <URL> in 2014 . As a result , transport options have been restricted from both the Ukrainian and the Russian side . In addition , it is now necessary to have a Russian visa ( or visa-free passport ) in order to access the Crimean territory . Flights In September 2015 , all flights between Russia/Crimea and Ukraine <URL> . So it would take at least two transfers from Kiev in order to reach Crimea : Bus It 's possible to take a <URL> from Kiev to Sevastopol for ~ 40 $ , however foreigners ( as in , everyone except Ukrainians ) now require a <URL> to cross the Ukraine/Crimea border : On September , 16 , 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed the Resolution No 722 , amending the Procedure for entry to the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and exit from it regarding the entry to and exit from Crimea by foreign nationals , inter alia : Extract from the Para 3 of the Resolution : Foreign nationals can entry and exit from temporary occupied territory of Ukraine through special check points by presenting a passport and special permission issued by territorial body of State Migration Service of Ukraine or territorial body of Department for Migration Service of Ukraine in Novotroitsky or Genichesky district of Kherson oblast . This permission can only be issued to persons having relatives/property in Crimea or <URL> . Therefore this option is probably not reasonable for most travelers . On Foot The land border can be crossed on foot , but that option requires a special permission ( see the section above ) . Trains <URL> connect Ukraine to Crimea , however it 's possible to take a train to the Ukrainian border in the Kherson region . From the border region one could in theory cross on foot ( see the section above ) . Going from Crimea to Ukraine Unless you 've previously acquired the above-mentioned special permission and entered Crimea via Kherson , it 's impossible to cross into Ukraine from Crimea over land . The Ukrainian border guards could either deny you entry or arrest you for illegally entering the Ukrainian territory through Russia . Conclusion Flying via Moscow is probably the only feasible way for most tourists . Note that this option is technically illegal from the Ukrainian point of view , so I would avoid talking about Crimea to Ukrainian border guards in the future .
As of the weekend of March 28 , 2015 , miles from US Airways have been merged into the American AAdvantage program ( which is the program which will continue on ) . If you had accounts on both airlines , you were given a chance to link your accounts beforehand ; if you only had a US Airways Dividend Miles account , then you were assigned an AAdvantage number . If you have enough activity on the combined airlines for elite status , then you should have been awarded the appropriate level of status after March 28 . If you find any problems with the account merge , you should reach out to AAdvantage customer service for assistance .
You can also catch a glimpse of North Korea on the Jayu-ro highway , for instance around <URL> . Nothing very interesting though , just some hills across the sea . The tour I took to DMZ ( you ca n't get there without a tour ) took us via that road , because it 's one of the easiest places to see North Korea close to Seoul . According to our tour guide , you notice that all trees are chopped down , hence it must be North Korea .
Gazole and Diesel are synonyms . They both mean diesel fuel , as opposed to essence or super ( short for supercarburant , nobody uses the long form ) which means usual car gasoline . You must use the type of fuel that 's appropriate for your car , either gazole or super . I think that diesel engines are more common in cars in France than in most other countries . The extra word extra means a type of fuel that has advantages compared with non-extra , either to mileage or to engine longevity . As far as I know , the term diesel extra is not regulated , it is only a commercial name chosen by this or that brand .
Based on the way they organize the filters : Air Conditioning Only Climate Control Only Air Conditioning and Climate Control Climate Control and Ceiling Fan I would say that " climate control " refers to heating . So you have : rooms that have only AC rooms that have only heat rooms that offer heat and AC rooms with heat and ceiling fans for " cooling " Addendum - - - Since everyone was getting off these computer controlled thermostats type answers , I emailed the source , Expedia customer service . Their reply ... ' Climate control is the proper heating and ventilation . It has a capacity to blow warm air or ventilate by letting in air at ambient temperature . '
This answer assumes your entry clearance was issued under Appendix V of the rules . Your entry clearance was cancelled and you were removed from the UK . The stated reason is that you did not have the funds to pay for the cigarettes you were importing , I figure it was roughly GBP 160 . The Immigration Officer was entitled to assume that you were in a position to be aware that import duty was required when you bring lots of cigarettes in to the UK , and similarly you were in a position to know roughly the amount you needed to pay . And you did not have have the money to hand . This leaves the inevitable conclusion that you did not intend to pay and instead sell them inside the UK on the black market , which would be illegal . And so you were removed . While you can not be sure , it 's likely they got you on <URL> , sub paragraph ( iii ) ... ( iii ) on grounds which would have led to a refusal under paragraphs 320 ( 2 ) , 320 ( 6 ) , 320 ( 18A ) , 320 ( 18B ) or 320 ( 19 ) ( except where this sub-paragraph applies in respect of an entry clearance issued under Appendix Armed Forces it is to be read as if for " paragraphs 320 ( 2 ) , 320 ( 6 ) , 320 ( 18A ) , 320 ( 18B ) or 320 ( 19 ) " it said " paragraph 8 ( a ) , ( b ) , ( c ) or ( g ) and paragraph 9 ( d ) " ) ... which is hard to read but when all the gobbledygook is resolved , it means you did not disclose in your entry clearance application that you were coming to the UK to do something illegal . Would it be difficult to get another entry clearance soon ? It 's all down to the opinion of whomever you ask , so leaving opinions aside , you need to instruct a UK solicitor to handle your next application . Without a professional on your case who has a practice area in complex applications , then yes , getting another entry clearance will be very difficult . What are the potential consequences on future UK entrepreneur visa applications , as I meet all their criteria easily ? Well no , perhaps you did meet all their criteria at some point , but moving from peddling cigarettes on the black market to becoming a Tier 1 Entrepreneur is going to be a bit awkward to explain . In other words your credibility has taken a serious hit with respect to anything on the <URL> side of things . If you want to ask more questions about this aspect of your removal , you need to use the <URL> . This site is constrained to Appendix V of the rules . What is the potential impact on future Schengen visas , which I already got more than 15 times ? Assuming we 're back on the visitor/tourist side of things where Schengen is concerned ( as opposed to a skilled migrant ) , you can be sure that the UK told Schengen about the event . So it 's reasonable to expect Schengen to refuse under Reason 9 , see <URL> because as mentioned your credibility has taken a hit and you need a practitioner to determine what and when your next visa application will be . Update In comments the OP revealed that he was actually removed under Paragraph 320 ( 19 ) which is a key reference in my guess of Paragraph 321 ( iii ) above so the above answer remains ' as is ' . The Paragraph 320 ( 19 ) says ... ( 19 ) The immigration officer deems the exclusion of the person from the United Kingdom to be conducive to the public good . For example , because the person 's conduct ( including convictions which do not fall within paragraph 320 ( 2 ) ) , character , associations , or other reasons , make it undesirable to grant them leave to enter . What this tells us is that during the landing interview and subsequent detention followed by the removal , you did something that got them angry . Your narrative does n't include that part of the episode , but we can assume that there were one or more displays of indecorous behaviour which were interpreted as disruptive or insulting . So as the Americans say , they " upped the ante " . During my training with the IAS , I worked with detainees at Heathrow and Gatwick and can attest that detention is a very stressful event . It disrupts one 's plans in an unexpected way , and the anxiety caused by having your phone confiscated can be horrific . And worse , the detention room at any given point in the day will have a variety of muttering whackos , incoherent screwballs , drunkards and the like that can invade one 's sense of personal safety . They monitor and keep it safe , but for a novice , it can be intimidating . For some people , this will result in inappropriate behaviour . However , it 's important to remain calm and compliant or matters can become dramatically worse , like in this case . Follow up questions from the comments ... is there any ban period for sometime under paragraph 320 ( 19 ) No , there are no provisions in Paragraphs 320 or 321 to issue a ban from portside ( except in felony type situations like forgery ) . The rules are clear that bans are issued at the application stage . So you do not have a ban , presumably good news for you . also it would be highly unlikely that all my future uk application might refuse straightaway As I pointed out , ba
The northern most road would be the <URL> which ends in <URL> and extends to <URL> . The northernmost road in Canada is <URL> , which ends a couple of degrees of latitude south of the Dalton in <URL> , so that would be the northernmost you can get on existing roads . It is also possible that you might be able to travel on <URL> which potentially could go even further north but you will have to check where they are and if you will be allowed to travel them alone but <URL>
end question
start question
How can one get a flight receipt from Priceline ?
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
Security rules prohibit casual visitors entering a cruise ship while in port , for same security reasons that keep folks from wandering into an aircraft parked at an airport . But as always there are exceptions ... Travel agents can pre-arrange to inspect a ship when it is in port , but this comes with strings attached , such as the volume of business your agency has sent to that cruise line , being escorted around the ship by a crew member , restrictions as to which ports this is possible , etc Some cruise lines and/or ports allow family members onboard during initial boarding at the port of embarkation . But not usually at stops during the cruise .
You can also catch a glimpse of North Korea on the Jayu-ro highway , for instance around <URL> . Nothing very interesting though , just some hills across the sea . The tour I took to DMZ ( you ca n't get there without a tour ) took us via that road , because it 's one of the easiest places to see North Korea close to Seoul . According to our tour guide , you notice that all trees are chopped down , hence it must be North Korea .
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
Yes , you can . And I did . I just tried it from my recent trip from Narita to Shanghai Pudong via Incheon transit . I first asked Asiana Airline via email if it is possible , and they answered I must call by phone to cancel the flight . Then I called , and the operator said I should cancel the flight at the check-in counter . They seemed to not cancel my flight at that time . Then at the time of check-in , I asked again and the staff there said I can , as long as I book another return ticket and show him the ticket . I did n't have another ticket , so I immediately tried to search for and booked my return ticket , which is from Incheon to Narita in 6 days after . He accepted it , but during him checking my ( original ) ticket , he said that I can change the date of the ticket ! . According to his explanation , I did n't have to book another return ticket ; I should just change the date of the ticket of the only Incheon to Narita part . Hmmm ... it 's too stressful . It meant that I replaced my Asiana ticket with the cheap LCC one and also lost my US$ 100 . Sigh ... My ignorance ... But if you want to ditch only the last part of your return flight , it is possible ! . NOTE : Because I just booked my flight shortly before the departure , and had n't booked my hotel , I got myself into the investigation room at immigration . You shall be better off expecting a slightly more demanding , scrutinizing inspection .
Unlike India , the UK ( and the European Union as whole ) has no hard and fast rule on the number of electronic items you may carry with you . What 's allowed is the following : Taking personal effects that you need for the duration of your trip across the border , especially if you are not a resident . Importing things that are worth up to GBP 390 tax and duty-free ( except a few things like alcohol and tobacco for which there are special rules ) . Importing much anything , provided you declare the goods as appropriate ( except fresh foodstuff , forbidden drugs or weapons , etc. ) . In practice , having two used laptops with you as a businessman is a non-issue . Also , for really expensive professional equipment , there are procedures ( e.g. the ATA carnet ) to provide guarantees that you are not going to import it illegally . What matters here however is the purpose ( temporary import ) , not the value or number of items per se . By contrast , carrying 3-4 identical laptops could raise concern ( e.g. that you do not really intend to take them back with you but will sell them or even give them away , which is not allowed if the total value is over the threshold ) . Similarly , if you were a resident that just went shopping abroad , even a single brand new laptop worth more than the threshold would have to be taxed . And note that the rules imply that any item being used permanently in the EU must have been declared and/or taxed at some point ( when it was imported , when it was purchased or perhaps as part of a move ) . It does n't matter whether you had only one item when crossing the border or were not detected at that moment , if you own a laptop whose serial number identifies as originating abroad and you ca n't prove you imported it properly , <URL> .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
You do indeed need a yearly vignette to drive on Swiss motorways . It costs CHF 40 and needs to be affixed to the windshield to be valid ( in principle , merely having one somewhere in the car is n't enough to avoid a fine ) . The vignette for a given year is valid from the beginning of December in the year before until the end of January in the year after . I do n't know for sure but I doubt you can buy that vignette from car hire companies as far out as Frankfurt and I would be really surprised if you could rely on a rental having one already ( as others have suggested you can always ask or be lucky , but it 's not standard ) . But you do n't need to worry about first entering Switzerland and trying to track down a place that sells it , getting one on the way is really easy . Usually , you can buy the Swiss vignette at the last couple of petrol stations/rest areas in Germany ( possibly losing one or two euros on the exchange rate but nothing to worry about if it feels more convenient ) and at the border itself , certainly on the motorway ( smaller border crossings do not have any customs office/staff nowadays but major crossings still do ) .
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
Being there certainly would increase your chances - as you can go and see the places , meet the estate agents , and call people during day hours . Example : place comes on the market at 9am , calls start at 10am , they could show someone through at lunch and by the time you wake up in the US , it 's gone . I was in Riga in May sorting out my Uzbekistan visa , which took six days . There was a British woman in the hostel looking at places to live in . It was really hard , but with the help of locals ( including the hostel staff ) she was finding more sources , friends of friends who knew of places , and the like . Definitely easier when you 're in a city than from afar . You could also consider <URL> a bit when you arrive , or do what I 'll be doing for Vancouver when I head there soon , and stay in a hostel for a bit . There are some hostels in Riga ( Central Hostel was really nice and good value ) which are n't party hostels , but are very well located , and you 'll make a lot of connections if you talk to the staff . Even going to a Couchsurfing meetup in town could net you some more connections or offers of a place to stay . My recommendation - try from where you are , but accept that it 'll be easier on the ground , and make back-up plans to make connections on your arrival .
To <URL> , I 'd like to add the passenger perspective : If you know that you may vomit during the flight , prepare yourself : Have a change of clothes in your carry-on , in case you manage to vomit over your shirt and pants , plus a plastic bag to store your dirty clothes . Bring tissues , or a towel , to clean up . Make sure that there actually is a vomit bag in your seat pocket as you board , and move it somewhere you can easily reach , maybe get your neighbor 's one as well , just in case . Do please put the unused bags back , though . Talk to the crew , since they 're really helpful . They may even be better equipped than you to clean up the mess , so do n't try to fix it all by yourself . If you 're flying with a person you know may need assistance ( such as a kid that wo n't give you much advance warning ) , be on high alert during turbulence ( obviously ) , but also during pressure changes , i.e. take-off and landing ( same problem as altitude sickness ) . Best wait a few minutes to calm down any upset stomach before exiting the plane . to freshen up afterward , you may want to bring your toothbrush and toothpaste ( there are small enough toothpaste tubes so that you 're below the 100ml container liquid/gels rule ) . Alternatively , you can bring some mints/chewing gum ( thanks , @zuallauz for the suggestion )
It 's worth nothing that return flights are always from A-B-A . You 're asking for an open-jawed ( sort-of ) flight - and that 's almost always two one-way tickets . Sometimes on kayak.com they have variants that 'll show up if you select multiple airports in your " return flight " - you could try that ( in the " from " box , you can put MAD , and in the " to " box , put " DEL , BOM . However it may just find the cheapest return flight to DEL then . But it could be worth a try . I 'd suggest <URL> as another possible option . It 's like an online travel agent - you pay a small fee , and their experts find the cheapest flight they can for you . What you could do is create a contest on there , and indicate what you 've found , but that you 'd like a way to book it for the price you 've found , or for less if they can ;) ( disclaimer , I occasionally compete on there as an expert - there 's a discount link in my profile )
A VOA for Vietnam requires that your visa request be pre-approved by the government before you travel . The " Approval Letter " is the document the government will issue once it has approved your request for a visa . To get a VOA it is easiest to ask the tour company you are traveling with to organize the VOA on your behalf . There are also some agencies in Vietnam that will organize VOAs for any independent traveler for a fee . If you are going the visa agency route , you might do well to do a bit of research on travel forums like TripAdvisor , Thorn Tree , etc for recommended companies , as there are dodgy ones out there as well . The process is pretty straight forward , you supply the usual personal factoids ( dob , full name , passport number , citizenship , etc ) , pay the agency their handling fee &amp; they apply on your behalf , you then print out the Authorization Letter they send you , find the VOA office/line upon arrival , hang around for a while as the officials take their darn sweet time processing you and then go be the last person to claim their luggage and start your adventure . Depending on the tour company , some can arrange for your guide to meet you inside immigration and help speed up the process , but most leave on your own to handle the VOA process at the airport .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
Short answer : No , you will not get such a discount . Longer answer : For any significantly-sized airliner , the commodity they have to sell you is floor space in the cabin , not weight . If you 're occupying one seat of the same size , you 're costing the airline almost exactly the same as someone who weighs twice what you do . Let 's consider some numbers : Assumed average weight of a passenger : 150 lb ( 68 kg ) . <URL> : 274,500 lb ( 124,500 kg ) . Weight of the <URL> : 150 x 293 = 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) . Example fuel load on an A333 : 150,000 lb ( 68,000 kg ) . ( It can carry <URL> ( 79,460 kg ) of Jet-A ) Total before cargo for our fully-loaded A333 : 468,450 lb ( 212,490 kg ) . Now let 's say we double everyone 's weight . Adding another 43,950 lb ( 19,940 kg ) adds another 9 % to the gross takeoff weight for our A333 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers . Also , one must consider that fuel is a major operating cost for airlines , but far from the only one . The other costs for operating your flight include : Cost of paying the flight crew . Cost of paying the cabin crew . Cost of paying the ground crew ( baggage handlers , maintenance , wing walkers , etc. ) Cost of paying the check-in agents , gate agents , and other customer service personnel . Cost of paying all of the administrative staff back at corporate ( marketing , executive staff , IT staff , logistics planners , weather forecasters , dispatchers , etc. ) Amortization of that <URL> . Maintenance of said $ 246 million aircraft ( parts , hangars , ferry flights , etc. ) Airport fees ( landing fees , gate fees , hangar rental , check-in desk rental , etc. ) All of these costs add up so much that fuel costs <URL> in the most recent quarter and they were on the high end . So , our A330-300 full of 300 lb ( 136 kg ) passengers would only increase airline costs by around 9.38 % x 0.27 = about 2.5 % . Conclusion : Your below-average weight is decreasing airline costs from those of flying an average 150 lb ( 68 kg ) passenger by probably a fraction of a percent . This is certainly not worthwhile for the airline to create such a small discount , especially not considering the business they 'd likely lose over people not wanting to be weighed and/or feeling discriminated against and/or feeling that their privacy is being violated . Baggage In addition to the title question of whether you can get a discount for weighing less , baggage was also mentioned . The situation is a little different with baggage and actually varies depending on the type of baggage . What you 're paying for when you buy a ticket is : A certain amount of floor space in the passenger cabin ( namely , the amount your seat occupies , ) A certain amount of carry-on baggage , and A certain amount of checked baggage . The reasons for this are : Carry-On Baggage With carry-on baggage , you 're again paying more for space than for weight . There 's only so much volume available for carry-on baggage in the passenger cabin , so there are limits to how much any one person can bring so that , hopefully , everyone can get theirs in . No U.S. airline I 've flown on has ever even bothered to weigh carry-on baggage . They only care that you have no more than the allowed two pieces ( namely , one that will fit in the overhead bin and one that will fit under the seat in front of you . ) Some non-U.S. airlines I 've flown on have weighed carry-on baggage , but only for safety purposes ( i.e. to make sure it did n't exceed the weight capacity of the overhead bin . ) In those cases , overweight bags did n't have an extra fee , but were rather banned outright , since it was a safety concern , not a cost concern . Checked Baggage With checked baggage , the situation is a little different . As densely-packed as passenger cabins may feel these days , the reality is that they 're mostly filled with air . That 's not necessarily the case with the cargo hold where checked baggage goes . It still has volume limits , but its weight limits also become significant , since the cargo is packed much more densely than the passenger cabin . With cargo , in addition to the volume limits , there are multiple weight limits at play : The Maximum Takeoff Weight ( MTOW ) of the aircraft . For this , all weight on board does matter . The weight limit of the particular cargo deck itself . For this , only cargo weight matters . The weight limit that any one baggage handler is required to lift by himself . For this , only the weight of your one particular bag matters . In practice , the last of those ends up being the reason for overweight bag fees . If your bag weighs more than an individual handler is required to lift by himself , they 'll need multiple handlers and/or special equipment every single time they handle your bag , which can be quite a lot of times . It 's for this reason that you 'll be charged an extra fee for carrying one 55 lb . ( 25 kg ) bag , but not for two 50 lb . ( 22.7 kg ) bags . Of course , as long as the bags are all under the maximum a handler is required to lift , more bags means more cost to the airline ( it takes them 5 times as
Please bear in mind that it 's a quite long whole day journey . There are the following option to get from Langkawi to Phuket . I believe the same should work in reverse . By ferry : <URL> ( ~ 3300-3700 THB ) Service was launched at the end of 2012 . High season route only ( operating Nov - April ) . Check in point located inside the Kuah Jetty ( located in Kuah Town ) on the Pattaya Beach . Travel Time 10 hrs . Bookings can be made in person at a booth on the pier road in Chalong or by various payment methods over the internet . It appears there is no luggage restriction as there would be when flying . The ferry stops and collects at Koh Lipe ( immigration clearance ) , Trang ( 30 minute break ) , Koh Mook , Koh Kradan , Koh Ngai , Koh Lanta , Koh Phi Phi ( 7 stops in total ) . The Malaysia Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located inside the jetty . If you do not check-in at least 60 minutes prior to departure , you will not be allowed on board of our ferry . The Thailand Immigration &amp; Customs officials are located on Koh Lipe . Note that if there are not enough passengers , they could cancel or postpone the trip . By air : Only in-direct commercial flights either by Penang ( <URL> ) , Kuala Lumpur ( Air Asia ) or Singapore ( Air Asia ) . Check <URL> for further details . Easiest is to fly Langkawi-Penang-Phuket but you have to check schedules work out . If you have extra time in Penang , check the trip to Phi Phi or Khao Lak . By <URL> . They operate daily flights between Langkawi and Phuket . They have a little box office at the airport . Flights and office hours are on Mon , Wed , Fri , Sat-Sun . But I 'm not sure how this information is reliable . Please contact them for further info . By land ( public transport ) : Langawi - Satun By <URL> to Satun ( ~ 300THB ) . It takes around 1,5 h. By <URL> ferry to Koh Lipe ( 1200-1400THB ) , from there to Satun Ferry Port - Pakbara Pier ( 600-700THB ) . There are also pre-organised " tour " tickets that would pick you from your guesthouse in Langawi and deliver straight to the centre of Hat Yai ( ~ RM 70.00 ) . In total it takes around 7 hours . Satun - Phuket or Krabi ( by bus ) As <URL> mentioned , there is a air-con bus from Satun 's bus station to Phuket . Tickets are 400 baht ( 230 baht to Krabi ) and the trip takes about 8 hours . Satun 's bus station is a few kilometres south of town , but buses can be flagged down on Burivanich Road as they leave . Read more at <URL> site . Or : Satun - Hat Yai By taxi , motorcycle taxis or small songthaews . By van ( on an hourly basis ) . By local bus . It takes around 3-4 hours in total . You can tell the bus driver where you wanted to get off in Hat Yai and he will try to get you as close as he can . It costs around 80 THB . Hat Yai - Phuket By direct bus ( around 7 hours ) . By train Hat Yai to Surat Thani ( for Ko Samui , Krabi ) . Check <URL> site for trains details . Then road to Phuket . Surat Thani is about 290km from Phuket . This road journey by bus to Phuket from Surat Thani takes about 5-6hrs . By van that goes to Phuket on an hourly basis . By air , check the <URL> site for further details . By land ( by car ) : By ferry to Satun , from there by car or taxi along the coastal ( faster ) or inner road . Along the coastal road , the next major town , after Satun is Trang ( Satun to Trang is about 110kms ) , which is about 320kms ( route distance ) from Phuket . After Trang is another town called Krabi , which is about 90kms from Phuket . There is the alternative of going to Hat Yai from Satun , about 60kms , then taking a domestic flight to Phuket , via Bangkok ; fastest available connecting flights makes this flight journey in about 3 hrs 50 mins ( via TG ) . All other flights e.g. Thai AirAsia , One To Go , Nok Air - also fly into Phuket via Bangkok . ( <URL> ) Ferry map : Note that Langawi local time is 1 hour ahead of Thai time ( GMT +8 ) . See also : <URL> by Tanya <URL> at TripAdvisor
I have this problem . I recently visited for the first time the Eurozone , then the UK . I find the coins in the UK to be especially annoying/confusing . But after a couple weeks of frustration , I just took a moment , when I was away from a cashier , not buying anything , and studied the various coins for about 5 minutes . Since then I 'm able to pay without trouble . So I think the key is simply to make a conscious effort , ideally when you are n't holding up a transaction . There have also been times when I 've just offered a pile of coins to a cashier and said " Would you do the honor ? " They usually smile and oblige . I think most cashiers , especially in tourist places , are accustomed to foreigners who have not learned the local currency .
No , this will not work . Buying a return ticket and only using the first leg of it will certainly work - just make sure that you do n't skip any of the legs before the one ( s ) you intend to use to avoid the ticket being canceled . However what will not work is trying to book a refundable fare class for the return , and then obtaining a refund for that leg . The reason is , as you 've guessed it may be , in the " fine print " - or specifically in the fare rules . All airlines will have something like this in their fare rules and/or Contract or Carriage ( CoC ) : Specifically that example is from American Airlines , but the others will be similar . This means that if only one of the flights on a ticket is n't refundable , then neither are any of the other flights booked on the same ticket - even if they are different fare codes that would normally allow for refunds . If you were to ask the airline to cancel the return leg then they will normally " reprice " the entire ticket , which basically means that they will calculate the price again for the whole ticket - including legs you 've already flow ! This will put you back into the original situation of being after a one-way , and as the price of that will be higher than you 've already paid , there wo n't be a refund due . It 's worth keeping in mind that whilst one-way flights will sometimes be more expensive , they often come with better conditions ( eg , allowing changes and/or refunds ) that the cheaper return flights do not . Booking a return and simply not using the return portion may make sense if you saves you money - but make sure that you 're not taking a higher risk to save a small amount of money . In this case it looks like you 're saving around # 200 so it probably is worth doing , but if you were only saving # 20 then you 'd almost certainly be better off paying a little more for the one-way and the additional flexibility it probably gives you .
This is a well-trod trail on the backpacker circuit , and <URL> , but here 's the outline : <URL> from Delhi to the end of the line at Gorakhpur , overnight , US$ 10-50 depending on class of sleeper Bus to border at Sunauli , one and half hours , ~ $ 2 Cross border on foot Bus to Kathmandu , 9-12 hours ( overnight buses available ) , ~ $ 6 So it 's certainly the cheaper option , as you can do the whole trip for $ 20 , or even less if you 're the kind of masochist who enjoys overnight travel in the train 's general section . As for " good scenery and cultural experience " , though , I 've yet to meet anybody who actually enjoyed the trip . Since there are so many goras traipsing through , the scammers are out in full force , the border towns are absolute shitholes , and the Nepali roads and buses are pretty awful with <URL> an all too regular occurrence . And yes , DEL allows transit without visa if you can connect directly to your flight to Kathmandu and check your bags through .
end question
start question
Where to find vintage electronics in Tokyo ?
While this is likely to be off topic , here 's an answer : <URL> This is THE spot for buying vintage electronics . <URL> While it seems from the outside that Akihabara is only anime and manga everywhere , originally the area was ( and still is ) the best spot for electronics . You want to visit the maze of small shops under the tracks of the Sobu main line . <URL> Keep in mind that there are many other shops around Akihabara , it would be too long to catalog them all , but I encourage you to explore around .
To add to Josh B 's answer - Wan Chai Computer Centre . Wan Chai MTR Station , Exit A4 on to the pedestrian bridge , there will be escalators when you hit the main road to let you get down to street level . It is right next to a McDonalds ( you can see that sign from the bridge ) . Less busy than the rest , good range . Mong Kok Computer Centre . Mong Kok MTR Station [ ( not Mong Kok East ) , exit E2 ( Bank Centre ) , walk straight across Sai Yeung Choi Street , then the next one and it will be on your right . There 's usually a newspaper/magazine stand in front . That area is busy during all the waking hours though , especially on the weekends ( mosh pit style crowds , minus the moshing of course ) , so you may want to try on a weekday . Hours are roughly 10-11am ish , until 6-7pm . Sham Shui Po Golden Computer Centre . Sham Shui Po MTR Station , follow the signs in the station . This one is a bit more out of the way and less touristy . Golden Computer Centre has two levels ; the ground floor sells mostly games , consoles and accessories ; the basement sells mainly computer accessories ( keyboards , mice , cables , adapters , phone chargers etc. ) . There 's also the Apliu Street markets , which sell all things electronic , like LED lights , torches , 2nd hand phones , power adapters , batteries . Finally , there 's your standard electrical chains in most shopping centres and strips which should also have what you want , probably a bit more expensive though . The main ones are Fortress and Broadway . If in doubt , you can always try Mong Kok , Sai Yeung Choi Street ( Mong Kok Station , Exit E2 ) - these stores have practically every second shopfront on that strip . That 's also a big tourist area , so the language barrier may be a bit easier . One last thing - all the best to you for remembering which place has what at what price . There 's nothing dodgy going on ( well , not that I found ) , but it is a crazy mind game trying to remember where each store is , especially when they all pretty much look the same , and the centres are n't exactly laid out in the most logical manner .
I use <URL> to plan my itineraries . The website is a bit more clumsy than Google Maps , but the itineraries and ancillary information are of a better quality . In ViaMichelin you also get maps . An overview maps of the whole trip as well as detailed maps for the different steps . These are the same maps as the Michelin maps you would buy on paper . Compared to Google , it is easier to zoom in and to print a given area . The more difficult part is related to printing . It is hard to fit a whole trip on an A4 page . Even for a smaller trip , such as e.g. Brussels - Frankfurt/Main ( + - 400km ) it is hard to obtain a map that is still useable and readable . Moreover , if you take into consideration the price of colour ink or toner , apparently free maps come at a cost . When it comes to long distance travel , my personal conclusion is that there are no ( free ) online resources , which might be able to compete with traditional maps and atlases . If you do not want to spend too much money on maps and atlases , you can do the following . There are road atlases covering Europe or parts of it . These are updated every year . When the updates are available or about to come out , the " older " ones are sold with huge discounts . These atlases are not " dernier cri " anymore , but remain very accurate and reliable . But , before a trip , you can always cross-check with ViaMichelin or alike . Things are different if you are interested in local information . You can have destinaiton specific resources such as <URL> in the United Kingdom . As suggested in the comments , you might also be able to find free online maps made available by local tourist offices .
You can try <URL> . And in general you can look at <URL> to get many possible resources for accommodations .
<URL> is your friend . You can use that service from city to city , or - as I did in this case - from country ( Australia ) to city ( Hyderabad ) . If you are fortunate enough to fly with your own plane and want to have the closest airport in terms of distance , check the <URL>
Milk is available at the only two supermarkets I 've been able to find in Vientiane and from the local convenience store chain , <URL> . There were one and two litre plastic bottles of regular and skim milk and one litre cartons of UHT milk . All the milk seemed to have Thai labels , not Lao ( though one of the companies is a Japanese company ) . This means it 's all imported from Thailand . Vientiane is only 20km from the border so I do n't know if the other corners of the country can get the fresh milk or only the UHT . Milk section of a Vientiane M-Point Mart . Soy milk is in a separate section to the left not in this photo . I 'm not sure if milk is available at the generic/independent minimarts which are much more common than supermarkets or convenience stores here . I 'm not sure if supermarkets or convenience stores exist outside the capital or the other larger cities . I assume the small minimarts will stock the same products in all towns and villages though . Now one thing I have noticed is that soy milk is very common here . The soy milk is also produced across the border in Thailand and is available at all the previous kinds of places plus even the stalls and stands on the sides of the roads . Perhaps it 's popular because it may enjoy a longer shelf life and be more suitable to being transported around the country in the hot humid conditions with bad roads in aging trucks . But of course I overlooked th fact that lactose intolerance is much higher in most of Asia than in the west and soy milk has no lactose . Compared to some soy milks it tastes very nice , comes in at least three varieties , including chocolate and an " energy " version : A bottle of Thai ไวตามิ้ลค์ ( Vitamilk ) I drank in Vientiane .
In the uk you can usually exchange currencies in most major banks , lloyds , nat west , hsbc , royal bank of Scotland . However from personal experience the rates are not competitive . I have found that travel agents ( Thomas Cook , and Thomson/first choice/tui ) and marks and spencer department stores with buearax de change in them offer a better rate than the banks , and are usually close in rate to each other . Larger department stores in bigger towns and cities may offer the option to buy in foreign currency , some marks and Spencer 's definitely do , but the rate will not be to your benefit . In larger towns some supermarkets such as Asda tescos and Sainsburys now also have exchange beaurax The best rates in my home town can be found in a couple of money lending / pawn / cash converter shops , in particular for euros and U.S. dollar exchange . You can change money at most post offices in the uk but there are some limits . There are several types of post office , and in smaller local ' sub ' post offices you can only exchange euros and dollars , larger main or ' crown ' post offices are likely to offer a fuller service , and the rate is normaly a few pennies better than the smaller ones . There is a website rue by a uk financial advice guru called Martin Lewis <URL> You Imput the amount you want to exchange , and it will provide you with a table showing the best rates . if you are changing euros to gbp then you need to use the buyback option . It also sometimes has downloadable codes / vouchers to get a slightly better rate ( often if you are exchanging a higher amount of currency ) Final point . The most expensive place to change money is at the airport . The rates offered are often attriocious , due to having a captive audience . Enjoy your trip .
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
First of all , please let me explain what is Tokyo . Tokyo is not a city in its traditional meaning , Tokyo is a whole prefecture and at least half of it is covered by evergreen forests and scenic mountains . Quite unexpected for Tokyo , right ? There are bears in Japan and even in Tokyo . But odds of meeting one are quite low , so I would not worry . Monkeys are much more of nuisance . This is fine as most Tokyoites do n't have car anyways . Then , probably , we have to exclude Yamanashi , Gunma , Nagano - very close to Tokyo , very scenic and quite rural ... I would offer Karuizawa which lies in Nagano prefecture , but there are only some lakes . Yamanashi prefecture got famous Fuji lakes , but it is landlocked otherwise . Impossible . Japan is very religious country and temples or religious institutions are virtually everywhere . These are places I would highly recommend , but they fail by at lest one of criteria 's you set : The most isolated place would be the western side of Izu peninsula . It is very rural , nature is breathtaking , quite wild , but trains do n't go there . Car is the only option . Yamanashi prefecture . It is Tokyo prefecture neighbour , so it is very close . There are breathtaking views of Fuji mountain , five Fuji lakes , incredibly beautiful flower fields and much-much more . But it is landlocked , no sea is there . Nagano and Gunma - depends on the place , but really the wildest mountains you can imagine with places where no human foot stepped in . Trains do go there , and buses can be used for local commuting , but these two prefectures are landlocked too . Kanagawa prefecture - Shonan , Kamakura and Miura peninsula are within my Top5 of Japan 's most beautiful places . Trains do go there , it is fairly close to Tokyo ( in fact still within Bigger Tokyo Area ) , it is next to the beautiful sea , but you will see temples and pagodas on the every corner , because Kanagawa got very rich history . Isehara city in Kanagawa , Ooyama mountain - very close from Tokyo , access is perfectly good - just ride train to Isehara and bus from there to Ooyama entrance . The mountain is huge , nature is scenic , views from there are breathtaking . There are some bears sometimes and huge temple in the middle of the path . So what do we have left ? Atami . It is hot spring town in the northern part of Izu peninsula with scenic beaches . Quite mountainous with plenty of nature and wilderness . Trains go there ( about an hour from Tokyo ) , but the town itself is sleepy and frozen in time . Worth to go , but not really the best place to go . Boso peninsula . Although geographically very close to Tokyo , access there is difficult - whether you have to ride slow , local trains around Tokyo bay , or go to Miura peninsula and ride ferry from there . It is quite wild , but remember that places accessible by public transport can not be off the beaten path . I have been there several times and although Boso peninsula is very beautiful it is quite boring too . Hakone - great place with sea besides and warm lake in the volcanic crater . Hot springs , mountains and much more . Access is very easy - ride train to Hakone-yumoto , and take bus to Motohakone from there , or mountain cablecar to any station you wish - all of them are interesting . Southern islands of Tokyo aka Seven Izu Islands . Incredibly beautiful , still within 300 kilometers , accessible whether by boat from Takeshiba pier in Tokyo ( JR Hamamatsucho station ) or airplane from Haneda airport ( Hachijojima island ) or Chofu airport ( other islands ) . There are no habu ( yet ) despite popular belief , by the way .
The monsoon rains generally do not start until the end of May in that part of the world . What this means for you is that , the ocean on the western side of Sri Lanka is generally calm until June . So , I would say any beaches in and around Colombo or below would be great to check out . As a bonus , you might be able to do some " blue whale " watching , if you go to the southern side of Sri Lanka ( <URL> ) .
I 'd go to <URL> , conveniently located between Ueno and Asakusa next to Tawaramachi stn on the Ginza line . It 's Tokyo 's main restaurant wholesale district and sells everything you need for food preparation or presentation at low prices , <URL> has a bit more info . Note that the Japanese term for lacquerware is shikki ( 漆器 ) , urushi-nuri is the coating itself . Note that lacquerware is , paradoxically , one of those things where the more you pay , the less you get , since the real thing is fragile , stains easily and is difficult to clean without causing damage . My wife only trots out her set for New Year 's , and she puts a layer of plastic wrap between food and plate when she does ! Plastic imitations are much cheaper ( hundreds of yen vs thousands ) , much more practical and not easily distinguished by the naked eye , although for seriously decorative pieces ( eg . the pieces towards the bottom of <URL> ) , the real thing will be your only option .
While this is likely to be off topic , here 's an answer : <URL> This is THE spot for buying vintage electronics . <URL> While it seems from the outside that Akihabara is only anime and manga everywhere , originally the area was ( and still is ) the best spot for electronics . You want to visit the maze of small shops under the tracks of the Sobu main line . <URL> Keep in mind that there are many other shops around Akihabara , it would be too long to catalog them all , but I encourage you to explore around .
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
There is a <URL> which gives street address and map locations for many of their stops .
There does n't seem to be a comprehensive list of airport strikes , because : There is n't a centralized union for airport employees in Europe Different parts of the airport can go on strike : baggage handlers , security , pilots , traffic controllers , taxi drivers , cleaning personnel , etc The level of disruption is highly variable : not every strike causes a full shutdown There are frequent threats to go on strike , but these threats are not always carried out for one reason or another Therefore your best bet is to search Google News for strikes <URL> , or try the <URL> official website .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
Summary : I think your best bet is to look up the price for a slightly shortened trip on <URL> , from the first train 's first stop to the last train 's next-to-last stop . You can find non-TGV prices on Rail Europe as well . I just went to <URL> , entered Paris to Grenoble and clicked on " check fares " . As you can see , the cheapest fare if you book now is slightly cheaper than the TER fare ( which you can get on an open ticket , but only at a station , not online ) . However , I do n't know how reliable this far is , especially since I did n't even manage to display it in EUR . Rail Europe tends to have a markup ; I 'm not sure if this markup is consistent between modes . On <URL> , there indeed seems to be no way to select only trains without compulsory booking ( TER and Intercités , not Teoz ) . The <URL> website does n't have rates , but anyway there are n't any Intercités involved in a trip between Paris and Grenoble , only TGV or TER . You can look up the price of TER on each regional website , accessed from the <URL> . It takes a lot of clicks and it 's in French . Eventually you might be able to find prices for each leg of your journey ( I 'm not even sure of that , for trains that cross several regions there may be cases where you ca n't know the price for a span that crosses a region border ) . Rates are degressive , so the price from your origin to your destination will be slightly less than the sum of the prices of each leg . You may be able to get a rough idea of prices if you split your journey into several legs for which TGV does n't make sense . For example , you can see from the schedules on the DB website that the first stop after Paris on the Paris to Grenoble by TER trip is Sens , and the last stop before Grenoble is Voiron ; if you ask Voyages-SNCF to go from Sens to Voiron , you 'll get prices for the TER-only trip . Rates are degressive , so the price for Paris to Grenoble will be only a little more . Sorry for the suckiness of SNCF 's web sites , it 's very well-known in France . Your best bet to find prices is at a station . Ask an employee , as the machines are n't always able to find trip possibilities that are n't the fastest . In any case , for a trip where you do n't book in advance , you 'll often have to buy your ticket at the station .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
end question
start question
Is there a hotel in Paris with a grand piano " en suite " ?
<URL> . ( image from <URL> ) Have a nice stay !
Best answer is probably - legally : yes . Realistically : no . You 're signing a contract that you agree to pay for damages , beer from the minibar , etc , and as a minor , you ca n't legally enter into a contract . So legally they could ' let you ' , but it 's highly unlikely that they 'd want to expose themselves to a risk like that . From <URL> : Hotels may generally evict a guest and keep the room rental payment , despite the eviction , for the following reasons : Disorderly conduct Nonpayment Using the premises for an unlawful purpose or act Bringing property onto the premises that may be dangerous to others Failing to register as a guest Using false pretenses to obtain accommodations Being a minor unaccompanied by an adult registered guest < ========= this one Violating federal , state , or local hotel laws or regulations Violating a conspicuously posted hotel or motel rule Failing to vacate a room at the agreed checkout time <URL> may also prove to be of interest . It seems the one " loophole " you might have is for a parent to write a letter of consent and provide a security deposit in advance . But I 'd contact them first to check . Otherwise , you may just need to resort to " couchsurfing " - although I ca n't officially condone that , as <URL> requires that you be 18 to use its service ...
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
In Netherlands there is this <URL> The entire airplane has been converted into a single luxury suite for two guests . This means you have the complete craft at your disposal -- including its top-flight facilities , which include a Jacuzzi , separate shower , infrared sauna , mini bar , 3 flat screen televisions , blu-ray DVD player with a comprehensive collection of DVDs , a pantry with oven/microwave combination , coffee and tea maker , free wireless internet , air conditioning , etc. . PRICE : An overnight stay for 2 persons including a luxury breakfast costs $ 350 . The airplane is available to you from 15:00 on the day of your arrival to 11:00 on the day of your departure . There 's also a <URL>
If it 's a VISA debit cart , then it can be used as a credit card anywhere VISA is accepted , so you should n't have to worry about it . Note that many rental companies will want to charge the deposit to the card - most likely in the area of $ 200-300 . This money will be unavailable to you if the charge is on the debit card . While it 's easy to determine whether the card is a debit or credit card ( often , but not always ) by the card number alone , the rental company wo n't care . All they need is to be able to charge the amount owed to them . On a separate note , I strongly advise that you think carefully whether you really need a car in Paris . Paris is one of the worst cities in Europe to drive in . Updated based on the comment : If you want to rent the car to go to Belgium , you may need to inform the rental company that you will be taking the car out of the country - which in turn may make the cost of rental more expensive . You will likely be breaking the terms of your rental contract if you take the car across the country border without notifying the rental company .
As an Indian national with a US Visa transiting a French airport you do not generally require a visa , as you can TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) . Presuming you are passing through Paris CDG airport , then this is true even if you have to change terminals as there is an air-side bus . ( At Paris ORY airport some transfers can not be made airside and will require a visa ) . However TWOV will NOT allow you to enter the country , and the Eiffel tower is not even slightly visible from either airport ! Thus to visit the Eiffel Tower - or any other part of Paris - you will require a visa . As you are planning to leave the airport , you are most likely after a Schengen " Short Stay " visa , which will have to be issued by a French embassy due to the only country you 're planning to visit being France . Unfortunately this means that it 'll end up being a relatively expensive visit to La Tour Eiffel .
There is ! But there are n't any signs to tell you ... As explained on the <URL> , the SkyBus ticket office at the airport sells the <URL> . That costs $ 14 , and comes with $ 8 credit ( plus a few other bits ) . There are no signs at the SkyBus ticket office about myki , it is n't listed on any of the prices shown , but if you queue up and ask they 'll get one out of a secret drawer and sell one to you ! Once you 've bought your myki , it 's a moderately well signposted 1 minute walk to where the 901 bus goes from - follow the signs for Public Buses . Alternately , there are in theory some regular myki topup and purchase machines in <URL> , but they 're not well signed and rather hidden . You 're looking for a silver/grey machine with a blue sign on the top . I could n't find the T2 one , the T3 one is on the far left as you go to leave the baggage claim area by the toilets . For topping up a myki it may be worth hunting , though do n't forget you can also top up on the bus ! For visitors , heading to the SkyBus ticket office to buy one is likely to be much quicker and easier
There are many but , and I think this list may not be all , but certainly most . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Not lots of airports , but lots of rich people : <URL> operates a regular flight between Nice airport and Monaco every 30mn . Fee is 105 $ from Monaco to Nice and 120 $ from Nice to Monaco , or 210 $ for both .
Several hotels in the area listed on Trip Advisor as " pet friendly " but only accept dogs . Blatant discrimination ! La Quinta JFK accepts cats and there is no surcharge .
When you get to CDG , you 'll need to clear immigration , get your bag , then go through customs . You can then take the CDGVal to Terminal 2 , if you 're not already there . Head to the station area , which is quite well signposted , and situated between T2C , T2D and T2E . You can spot it in the middle of the <URL> . Once in the station area , find the ticket office , find the badly sign-posted TGVAir desk ( do n't just the long main ticket queues ! ) . Show them your ticket reference , they 'll find your ticket which they should 've already printed , stamp it , and hand it over . At this point , look at the time . You need to be at the right point on the platform 5 minutes before scheduled departure , and I 'd suggest at least 10 , ideally 15 minutes before to avoid stress/worry . The platform should be announced 30 minutes or so in advance . That gives you your waiting time , which could be fairly short , especially if there were delays ! In the <URL> , there are a few cafes . I seem to recall there are some with power sockets , ca n't remember about wifi . I picked the one nearest the ticket office last time I was there , and it was fine to kill the time until the train . There area also some seats in the central area which are at a bench-thingy with power sockets , most of which worked . If you have under an hour , just pick one of those If you have a long time , it 's a 5-10 minute walk to much of T2 , so you can always go for landside cafes there
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
Actual practice varies widely by country , but there are ( at least ) four reasons why hotels frown on having more guests in a room than you originally told them . Fire code . Hotels and rooms are rated for maximum occupancy : if they get busted for having two people in a room for one , or ( worse ) 101 guests in a hotel rated for 100 , there are serious legal penalties ( for the hotel ) in many countries . Profit . A room for two usually costs more than a room for one , even when it 's actually the same physical room . If you sneak two people into your single room , they 've lost out on extra income , and obviously the beancounters do n't like this . Registration requirements . Many countries require that all foreign nationals staying in hotels have to be registered , and it may be a violation of the law to have unregistered guests . ( Not necessarily applicable if your newfound friend is a local , although a few particularly paranoid countries register all hotel guests . ) Laws prohibiting cohabitation . Not much of a problem in the West anymore , but in eg . much of the Middle East , having two unrelated and unsupervised people of the opposite sex in the same room may be a crime ( khalwat , " proximity " ) , even if you 're not getting down and dirty . The correct thing to do etiquettewise , then , is to book a room for two in advance , but unless you 're sure you 're getting lucky , this is often impractical . The practical ( but somewhat embarrassing ) thing to do is to request an upgrade at the counter , at which point they can also register your guest . In places like Thailand , where rent-a-dates and sex tourism is big business , hotels either impose " guest fees " for overnight visitors , or ( at the lower end ) explicitly market themselves a " guest-friendly " ; as far as I know , in Bangkok there 's <URL> which proclaims itself a " bastion of wholesome tourism " and bans overnight guests , and has achieved minor notoriety as a result ! But if you 're stuck in some Atlanta-like institution , eg . Japanese business hotels where " single " really means " single " and you 'd have to get another room , you could just do like us international uni students in the dorms did , and sneak your dates in via the fire escape , undetected by the beady eyes of the night security guard at the main entrance , and hope the good vibes balance out the bad karma . Or , if you 're not as skift as as exchange student and are actually in Japan ( or most anywhere in Asia , really ) , you could go rent a <URL> and get a circular bed , mirrors on the ceiling , and bondage Hello Kitty watching over you .
As far as I am aware , most ( every ? ) country has two tracks for visitor visas : normal and emergency . Emergency typically is only granted for death or very serious illness of a close family member ( blood relative ) . <URL> Emergency visa applications If you or a family member need to visit the Netherlands urgently , you can apply for an emergency visa . To apply for an emergency visa , please contact the <URL> .
No , not if you need anything near completeness The other answers list some sites , but those are very incomplete . For example , the <URL> has <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , all can be booked online through webforms or e-mail . None of the search engines listed in other answers list any of those , and no youth hostel I have ever stayed in is . My only recommendation is to search specifically through the web , through tourist office websites , or through country-specific websites . Norway has the extensive <URL> ( includes many categories of accommodation , including one for youth hostels and similar low-budget backpacker style ) , in Sweden many -- but not all -- youth hostels are a member of the <URL> , and otherwise , it depends per country . Perhaps the search engines are particularly incomplete for Sweden and Norway and more complete for other countries or larger cities -- I have not made a thorough study . You might find something through them , but do not conclude from a lack of results that there are no hostels .
First , you did a good thing , there was no comeback , and so it 's all good . But I want to answer your more general question for other people in that situation , Many buffets have and explicit ' no leftovers no sharing ' policy , if they do n't make it explicit up front then they undoubtedly will if you start abusing the buffet . So while sneaking someone a few chicken wings ( or whatever ) may go unnoticed it becomes a slippery slope to feeding a ton of other people for free . And , if you 're caught , they will attempt to make you pay . If you get caught the best case is you pay for a buffet for an extra person , worst case -- if the buffet is included in the room rate -- you pay for an extra room . While I would have done what you did I would probably recommend other people to offer a little money to the towel boy , or offer to take him for breakfast somewhere else . The chances are the hotel knows about this and are OK with it , but it 's also possible that it 's a setup for a scam which is why it might be better to offer something else . But you should never feel unable to say no if it 's something you 're not comfortable with . I do n't want to sound boorish but it 's OK not to give if you do n't want to . I do n't imagine you 're the first person the boy has hit up for food , nor will you be the last . Similarly I 'd wager that he 's pretty used to being refused and it 's not going to affect him . Sure it might make you feel bad , but then I suspect that 's the point . You could try and address the larger problem ( that the hotel employees ? or hangers-on do n't make enough ) either via the hotel website or other review sites . But that 's not really what you asked . In short , if you want to help , offer some help in some other way , because sliding stuff off the buffet has potential to get you in a heap of trouble . But , if you do n't want to help , do n't be afraid to say no .
I 'm not brilliantly positioned to answer this , but since nobody else has ... So I walked a small section of the route back in 2000 or so ( Sounkyo Onsen to Kurodake and back ) as a day trip , just enough to realize that it 's a pretty " serious " national park and you 'll want to be well prepared for a serious hike : As you can see , the problem is not that it 's 55 km long , it 's that you 're going up and down and up and down in the mountains , exposed to the wind , rain , snow and ice ( there 's no forest cover on the plateau ) -- the picture above is the view from Kurodake on a relatively warm late summer day ! So if you have no previous experience , I 'd hook up with somebody else or try out a shorter section of the route . Asahidake to Kurodake can be done in two days with lodging en route , so you do n't need to carry a tent etc. . This guide looks rather useful : <URL> And for what it 's worth , his opinion is that 5 days for the full traverse is pushing it , and most people are better off budgeting 6 or even 7 .
I have never used their service , or that of a competitor , but <URL> ( Portable On-Demand Storage ) might do what you want . The big questions will be cost , and timeliness . I also do n't know if they have service outside of the U.S. , but there may be similar services elsewhere in the world . The service , as I understand it , essentially delivers a large " pod " ( metal crate ) to your drive way , where you can load whatever you want . It is then stored in one of their storage facilities , and can later be dropped of again -- at whichever address you specify , including one across the country . As the service is intended for long-term storage , and cross-country moves , it may prove to be un-economical as a sort of " on-demand luggage " service , but it might be worth investigating .
No , Paris has no such thing . It 's probably going to happen one day , but at the moment , Navigo cards are only for commuter passes ( one calendar week or longer ) . You see a lot of them because most locals have one ( whether they live in Paris or only work there ) . For infrequent visitors , you 'll need <URL> : typically a " <URL> " ( good for one trip in the Metro + RER within Paris , or ( not both ) for one bus + tram trip ( excluding some buses outside the city limits , in particular the airport express buses ) ) , which is markedly cheaper if you buy 10 of them ( a carnet , pronounced carney ) . ( These tickets are not nominative and have no preemption date , so you can buy 10 and spread them around multiple trips and over the whole party . ) There are also <URL> and <URL> as well as the <URL> . You have to make up your mind at the beginning of your trip whether you 'll go for a pass or not , there 's nothing like London 's automatic cap when you reach the day ticket rate . Beware that Paris 's day passes exclude the airport express services .
I tend to use <URL> to look up historical data . Their main mode is kind of interactive browser ( which is fun to play with by itself ) , but they also generate averages reports for all places their system knows about . It 's a little hard to pinpoint accurate location from your description , since Basque Country seems to more eagerly jump to Spain parts in geolocation . Do n't forget that while we think of weather data as related to certain area , it 's actually gathered in very specific points with weather stations ( often airports ) . I got report for <URL> , while searching for it there . You might want to browse around to refine for something closer to the area you are interested in . Their reports have numerous graphs ( temperature , humidity , clouds , winds , etc ) . For temperature I like their " fraction of time " visualizations :
end question
start question
What is more effective seeking luggage damage compensation from the aiport or airline ?
According to <URL> : If your baggage is damaged , lost or delayed during an easyJet flight , you must advise a member of easyJet ground handling staff at the airport of arrival immediately . In the event of loss or damage to baggage the airline 's liability is normally limited to a maximum of 1,000 <URL> ( approximately # 820 ) . Essentially , it does n't matter whether your airline is low-cost or full-service . ( If I 'm not wrong ) They have minimum obligations for carriage that they must adhere to as declared in their terms and conditions . Baggage handling falls under the purview of airlines and that 's whom you must seek compensation from . In your case , you will have to contact EasyJet but they may argue that baggage damage was not notified to them at the airport , thus allowing them to claim they were not responsible for it . If you have travel insurance of some sort , then it could cover compensations . Alternatively , check if your credit/debit card has travel insurance included .
Usually domestic flights do n't have allowance at all on most of the airlines , at least those mentioned . You have to pay additional charge to check in your bags . Up to 18kg per bag would definitely be fine , you would probably be OK with 21kg regardless of what the sites say as well . United state on the site you quoted 50lb , which is almost 23kg . You 're a paying customer , you 're not getting this service for free ( unless its an international connection , then its your international allowance anyway ) .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
Aer Lingus is working closely with BA ( they used to be part of <URL> and still have <URL> ) so I am pretty sure they should be able to check your luggage through . They do mention it <URL> : Aer Lingus will through-check baggage as a courtesy onto any carrier that have a baggage agreement in place , upon presentation of documentation of the itinerary showing Aer Lingus and partner carrier flights on the same ticket . This includes the following airlines : American Airlines , Air France , Air India , Alaska Airlines , Finnair , British Airways , Air China , China Airlines , Cathay Pacific , China Southern , Emirates , Etihad , Gulf Air , Iberia , Japan Airlines , KLM , Kenya Airways , Kuwait Airways , Malev , Malaysian , Martin Air , Northwest , Austrian Airlines , Pakistan Airlines , Qantas , Qatar Airways , South African Airways , Singapore Airlines , Thai Airlines , United Airlines , Sri Lankan Airlines , US Airways , Virgin Atlantic and JetBlue Airways . I have not been able to find a similar list for BA but I assume that it works in the other direction too . Belgium , Ireland and the UK are all in the EU so customs and security should not be an issue . The most important thing is to book both flights on the same ticket ( e.g. from a travel agent or one of the airlines ) . If the connection shows up on the airlines ' websites or on a travel agent 's system , it means that it does meet the guidelines for minimal transfer time and that they should take care of you in case of problem . If you book each leg separately , you are on your own and they might even refuse to check your luggage through as matter of policy .
Getting back to my own question . I was successfully able to take the 23kg luggage on the domestic flight as well . I had to collect my baggage at mumbai for custom related checks and again had to checkin at Jet Airways counter , but there was no problems at all and without any additional costs .
They are unusual in the West , but there are some airlines that offer cheaper seats when booking for multiple people . In particular , Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific both offer " GV2 " and " GV4 " fares , available only to groups of 2 or 4 passengers respectively . For example , in <URL> , the single passenger price for a Singapore-Chennai/Kolkata return is S$ 700 , while the GV2 fare is $ 600 and the GV4 fare is only $ 500 . These show up automatically when booking online for the appropriate number of people , no travel agent needed . Of course , even in SQ 's case , these fares are not offered on all routes or all flights . When they 're not , you may still be better off following Alessandro 's suggestion and booking separately to get the best possible fare classes . And before you ask , despite living in Singapore for > 7 years , I was never able to figure out what " GV " stands for ! Probably " Great Value " or something equally naff .
There are definitely buses between Ooty and Coimbatore , but you may have to change in Mettupalayam . They also run through Coonor . Looking at my travelog , it took about three hour from Coimbatore to Mettupalayam which is relatively flat . But the part between Ooty and Mettupalayam is much slower but really nice . Also the bus station you arrive at in Coimbatore is not in the center , and it will take a while to get from there to the train station . I think if you take an early bus in Ooty you can make it in time for your train , but taking the toy train may take too much time . If you have enough time , take the toy train the day before and then the bus back to Ooty in the afternoon . The toy train was very busy when I was there earlier this year , you had to make reservations weeks in advanced . Just double-check at the bus station in Ooty .
Evidently it 's a <URL> ( National Civil Aviation Agency of Brazil ) regulation . From <URL> : For tickets whose itinerary originates in Brazil ( for both the outbound and inbound journeys ) , the Civil Aviation Authority Agency ( ANAC ) determines that for each adult passenger , the free bagagge allowance consists of 2 pieces * of max . weight of 32kgs ( 70 lbs ) each . The sum of the 3 dimensions of each piece can not exceed 158 cm ( 62 in . ) and the sum of the dimentions of both pieces can not exceed 273 cm ( 107 in . ) . As to why this is , there 's speculation that it allows more people to shop both in Brazil and overseas and bring stuff back to Brazil / take it from Brazil - meaning more tax can be charged on these items . But that 's just speculation .
I ca n't help with the logistics of actually getting the vehicle between Thailand and Australia , however despite what is and is n't possible there , there 's no cheap way to do what you 're asking . Australia has a relatively strict process for approving imported vehicles , which would normally only be worthwhile if the car was in some way special . If the vehicle is left-hand drive ( ie , the steering wheel is on the left ) then there are even stricter rules regarding importing . You can most of the details in the <URL> . If you are only planning to import the vehicle temporarily you can get by with having a <URL> ( CPD ) , but even this will not be cheap -- especially as you 'll have to pay for transportation in both directions . There have been a few other questions here regarding CPD that you 'll be able to find by searching . Unless there are ( very ! ) special circumstances , selling your car in Thailand and buying a new one in Australia will work out much cheaper than trying to transport it .
Your compensation , if any , is governed by the <URL> you agreed to by purchasing the ticket , which in this case states ( emphasis added ) RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS American will endeavor to carry you and your baggage with reasonable dispatch , but times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . American may , without notice , substitute alternate carriers or aircraft and , if necessary , may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket . Schedules are subject to change without notice . American is not responsible for or liable for failure to make connections , or to operate any flight according to schedule , or for a change to the schedule of any flight . Under no circumstances shall American be liable for any special , incidental or consequential damages arising from the foregoing . In the absence of any superseding regulation or legislation -- of which there is none , as the origin and connection are both in the U.S. , which <URL> -- American is not required to give you anything . Despite the new routing , they still fulfill their fundamental obligation , which is to transport you from city A to city B . At best , you could request a refund for the ticket -- though this would necessitate purchasing a new one , which being closer to departure is more likely to be more expensive . If you are an elite frequent flyer with them or on one of the more expensive fares , they may be willing to give you some miles or other token gestures for the inconvenience , but purely in the name of customer relations . Some version of this paragraph is included in most airlines ' contract of carriage . The airline is similarly under no legal obligation to compensate you , notably , for switching a nonstop flight to a connecting flight , a frequent complaint . The same goes for equipment changes -- you may have purchased a ticket expecting a widebody in a three-class international configuration , but have no recourse if it gets swapped for a one-class turboprop at the last minute .
Buy two full-fare tickets . They are typically fully refundable . Obviously , check before you purchase . You typically buy directly from the airline . Then , whether she says yes or no , get them refunded and buy something sane . You 'll have to pay a small charge , but nothing compared to the fare difference . Or -- and this is cheaper if you are going to just print the ticket yourself -- forge the tickets completely . Just take an old ticket and replace the dates and destinations .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
I live in Barcelona and I have taken a taxi from the airport lots of times . Taxi system is a very regulated sector in Barcelona . Fares of official regular taxis are controlled by the IMET , the Metropolitan Taxi Institute which depends from <URL> . Specially at the airport , you wo n't find a " cheapest way " to take taxi , you will find taxi fares that are the same for all taxis . You will have to pay a supplement of 3.10 $ for catching a taxi from the airport and 1.00 $ for each piece of luggage placed in the boot . When you get to the cab , a rate called " la baixada de bandera " is applied . Then there is a fixed rate for distance covered and also a fixed rate for the time passing when the taxi is stopped : you will see how these are being charged on the taximeter located inside the cab . Note that these rates are more expensive on weekends and holidays and also from 20:00 to 8:00 than at the rest of the day . At the end of the journey , the above mentioned supplements will be added to the taximeter . Notice that a minimum fare of 20.00 $ ( including supplements ) will be always charged to you for the fact of getting a taxi at the airport . You can find official information about taxi fares from the IMET at this <URL> ( in Catalan ) . Taxi sector is so strictly regulated nowadays that I think it 's very difficult you get scammed . As you can see in the pictures of the <URL> , you will find the driver identification and the taxi license number located very visibly at the interior of the cab . Anyway , if you need to make a complaint , you can always ask for a receipt to the taxi driver . Such a receipt will contain all the relevant data you need to fill out the <URL> that you will have to send along with your receipt to the following address : Institut Metropolità del Taxi , carrer 62 núm . 18 - Zona Franca - 08040 Barcelona . You can find some more practical information about Barcelona airport taxi service at this <URL> ( however note that it 's unofficial ) .
From Berlin , the closest non Schengen destination is the <URL> . The beeline distance is + - 500 kilometers and over the road its + - 600 kilometers . There are direct flights between Berlin and Kaliningrad . It is just one hour . Otherwise , there are a couple of places in non Schengen countries that you can reach in more or less 2h30 by plane : Sofia ( Bulgaria ) , Bucharest ( Romania ) , Belgrade ( Serbia ) and Zagreb ( Croatia ) . So as to find the most cost effective option , I would play a bit with <URL> or a similar tool . In 2 hours you can also reach Kiev ( Ukraine ) or Minsk ( Belarus ) from Berlin . However prices for direct flights to these destinations are much higher than for the other destinations mentioned . Depending on your citizenship , all these destinations may not be visa free . And a visa may not be obtained for free . Take that into account .
What you are trying to do is " hidden city ticketing " and it 's forbidden by AA 's <URL> , so I would not expect them to make it easy for you to accomplish this . I would think that if you try to split the itinerary , they will compute the total fare for one-way trips EWR-PHL and PHL-PIT and then charge you for the difference above what you have already paid , perhaps in addition to a change fee of $ 100 - $ 200 if your original ticket was non-refundable . So this is even worse than just changing your itinerary to PHL-PIT .
According to <URL> you can not extend your stay for more then 30 days and even then in the case of emergency . The good news is that noone yet canceled availability of B1/B2 visas for the citizens of VWP countries . So if you obtain a <URL> , which you should n't have a problem doing you can enter the US for the period of 6 months and hike one of the trails before you have to leave the country .
There 's no simple answer to this because flight prices vary according to time of the year . Flight costs are probably going to be the highest , and while it is not the only indicator , a lower flight price indicates an ' off-season ' . If you try <URL> ( set your airport to Seattle ) then it does indeed seem that cheapest flights in March 2013 would be for Hawaii . However , costs are also likely to be more in Hawaii - so you could also consider a host of Carribbean / Central American countries that may be slightly more expensive as far as flights go but have cheaper hotels . Besides , you did n't really mention a budget , whether you 're going with a family , etc - all factors that can vary the price .
[ Disclaimer : my predictions of the behaviour of insurance companies are based on my experience with North American ones . I have no reason to believe European ones are different . ] The word pothole has two meanings . The first is a small area of road a few inches lower than the rest , with sharp edges : This really should n't damage your car . If it does , any insurance company could probably say it was your fault for not driving in accordance with the road conditions . With proper driving , a steady diet of this kind of road might require a " front end alignment " more frequently than usual . It is not worth your time to try to get someone else to compensate you for that . If you break an axle or something else dramatic , it will probably be as a result of improper driving . The second meaning of pothole is a huge round hole that can swallow entire cars : This picture might be fake , but it depicts something that does happen Should you meet one of these , I suspect your insurance company will go after whoever designed , built , and maintained the road , seeking compensation for your damages . They 'll pay you and save you the trouble of pursuing the relevant local government yourself . That 's one of the purposes of insurance .
I am not sure whether it is the cheapest , but <URL> currently has <URL> from many European cities to Delhi , Kolkata , Bangalore , Mumbai or Chennai for 550-600 Euros return . You have to change in Dubai . You can fly from Madrid to Delhi on February 24th for 464 Euros .
It is an IATA recommendation , and airlines tend to go with the minimum recommended in case the policy is in their favor , and opposite is true when the recommendation is against them : 3.2 PERIOD OF VALIDITY A ticket is valid for carriage for one year from the date of commencement of travel or if no portion of the ticket is used , from the date of issue thereof , except as otherwise provided in the ticket , these Conditions or Carrier 's Regulations . There are conditions in which the validity is extended . Basically when it is the airline 's mistake , such as cancelling a flight or so . Many airlines include this in their " General Conditions of Carriage &amp; Tariffs " , some types of tickets have less validity , usually the discounted tickets ( ~ 3 months ) . Source : <URL>
end question
start question
UK citizen , US company , living in UK : Can I use an ESTA ?
The Visa-Waiver Program , or VWP ( which is what the ESTA relates to ) allows you to enter the US for the purposes of Tourism or Business , but not for ' work ' . The distinction here is really down to where you are paid . Presuming you are already working for this company , and being paid in the UK , then your visit to their US offices is classified as a " business " trip , and is thus eligible for entry under the VWP . Whilst you are in the US you are able to participate in ' business ' for your company , but in effect this must be the same type of business that you would have been carrying out whilst you were in the UK . They can not pay you any additional wage ( other than expenses/etc ) over what you would normally have done in the UK , and they can not pay you locally in US dollars or in any form that would require you to have a US Social Security Number . ie , you 're good ! This is one of the purposes the VWP was designed for , and I 've personally done exactly what you 're describing at least a dozen times ( from Australia rather than the UK , but otherwise the exact same situation ) The definition of what is allowed under a B-1 visa ( and thus also under the VWP ) is defined in the <URL> The relevant section is : 9 FAM 41.31 N8 ALIENS TRAVELING TO UNITED STATES TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS , NEGOTIATIONS , CONSULTATIONS , CONFERENCES , ETC. . ( CT : VISA-701 ; 02-15-2005 ) Aliens should be classified B-1 visitors for business , if otherwise eligible , if they are traveling to the United States to : ( 1 ) Engage in commercial transactions , which do not involve gainful employment in the United States ( such as a merchant who takes orders for goods manufactured abroad ) ; ( 2 ) Negotiate contracts ; ( 3 ) Consult with business associates ; ( 4 ) Litigate ; ( 5 ) Participate in scientific , educational , professional , or business conventions , conferences , or seminars ; or ( 6 ) Undertake independent research . It 's also worth specifically reading the section in that document regarding the " Board of Immigration Appeals in Matter of Hira " , which basically holds that partaking in work actives whilst in the US , whilst not being paid locally ( other than expenses ) as a part of future work that will principally be performed outside of the United States , IS covered by B-1 status . You can find a copy of the Hina ruling on the <URL> The main confusion with B-1 / VWP is the very mis-used term " work " . In general in immigration law , " work " when used in most contexts actually relates to being employed and/or remunerated ( other than reasonable expenses ) in that country , not the act of actually working . As an example of this , the Department of Justice/INS document " <URL> " specifically states that the " B-1 classification applies when a foreign employer requires an alien employee to work temporarily in the United States ( US ) pursuant to the foreign employer 's international transactions . " ie , it is permissible to " work " in the US whilst under B-1 status , but not to be " employed " in the US . ( Note that the " foreign employer " part of this statement will almost certainly be true , even though the person claims to work for a " US Company " on the grounds that the actual employer will be a local subsidiary of the US company - at least from a legal perspective )
She may have to leave Australia , depending on the type of visa she 's on , but there 's no reason she has to return to the US immediately . As long as she has a valid passport with > 6 months free on it , and valid visas and flights for the countries she wishes to visit ( and sometimes evidence of an eventual ticket back to the US ) , she can travel indefinitely .
Well , let 's look at whether it 's possible first , to be <URL> . You 'll want to enter one of the cars that 's empty , obviously , otherwise you run into other problems ( being accused of tampering or theft ) . This means you 'll want to do so out of sight . You could do this along the tracks , if you know the train stops at a signal , or in the changing yard - both tricky , and the latter probably trespassing - given you 're not allowed off passenger platforms by law . Metafilter has a <URL> , but repeats time and again - if you get caught , you 're in trouble . Not " we 'll kick you off the train " trouble , but we 're talking arrests . Possible charges include : Tickets ( fines ) Warrants WILL be issued if you do n't pay the fines in the county issued wilful trespassing ( train tracks and yards are federal property , so you WILL get charged ) breaking and entering ( although if it 's unlocked and open you could probably contests that one in court ) It also amuses me that <URL> exists ... Another thing to remember , from anecdotal experience . Two friends and myself were on an overnight train from Bucharest , Romania to Istanbul , Turkey . The train was fairly full , and we wandered through looking for more space . We found three empty boxcars at the back . We have NO problem with lack of comfort , but we thought space could be pretty good . It then turned out we 'd been allocated two seats each somehow ( they seemed to actually have a backpacker class ) so gave up on that idea and enjoyed our seats . Mid-way through the night we stopped in Bulgaria to change engines . We got off , and then realised what could have gone horribly wrong - the boxcars were no longer attached , and had long since gone somewhere else ...
Nepalese citizens require a visa to visit the UK . Having a residence permit from another EU/EEC country does not free you from any UK visitor visa requirements . A residence permit from an EU/EEC country may free you from transit visa requirements . I would however assume that a EU residence permit will ease the application process and make it more probable that your application will be granted .
Short version : No , you do n't need a new ESTA . Longer version : Since you have an ESTA , you are presumably the citizen of a <URL> country . This means you are allowed to enter the US " <URL> " , which includes both your honeymoon and your academic conference . The ESTA is , in legal theory , not a visa , it 's just a " travel authorization " that pre-certifies that you likely meet the VWP conditions . It 's valid for unlimited visits for any valid reason during its two years of validity , assuming you continue to meet the VWP terms .
These are the <URL> for Cambridge City , population circa 122,000 : I admit I nearly choked on my tea on seeing this question 's title but also that a comparison with Cambridge MA is slightly unfavourable -- though I suspect that adjustment for differences in classification and reporting would swing that around significantly . I have not been to Cambridge in a very long time -- and a good part of that is because my first impression was that it was exceedingly boring . Packed full of delightful scenery but otherwise DEAD ( admittedly in the days when early closing was commonplace - and my visit was on a Wednesday afternoon ! ) To query its safety would never have entered my head , so the fact the question has been asked may be a sign that Cambridge UK is much safer than you are used to . <URL> claims to be the largest taxi company in the city of Cambridge . Their web site has a calculator and from the Railway Station to a Travelodge in Orchard Park it estimates as # 10.20 ( 3.6 miles ) . Google has the travel time as about 15 minutes , so about # 20 , including a tip , for 1/2 hr .
Yes you can . Canada has no exit checks . Britain has recently instituted them , but I see no sign that they will require you to exit on a British passport ( they do n't require you to enter on a British passport ) . Neither have a problem with you being a dual citizen . And either passport will get you visa-free access to the other country . <URL> , but in this case it 's not a big deal . Show either one whenever . The only place where it makes a difference is coming to Britain , where showing your British passport gets you in the fast immigration line . ( Strangely there is no equivalent benefit in Canada ) .
Having had this problem happen to me today due to flooding , I 've discovered the answer buried at the bottom of the <URL> . If you decide that you no longer want to travel due to the disruption : Your ticket is non-refundable . However , if the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or delayed and as a result you decide not to travel a refund will be offered on completely unused tickets and you will not be charged an administration fee . If you still want to travel : If the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or is delayed and you still decide to travel , special arrangements will be made to accommodate you on another train ( although a seat can not be guaranteed ) . If you no longer want to travel , you just need to go to a ticket office with your ticket and seat reservation for the affected train , and ask for a refund . Depending on the station , it may or may not be easy to arrange , but it is possible . Alternately , you can send in a claim ( including the ticket + reservation ) as you would 've done for a long delay , but this is likely to take longer and result in a refund in rail vouchers . If you do want to travel , it 's generally best to go to the customer services desk and get them to endorse your ticket to indicate the restrictions are lifted . They can also provide advice at the same time about alternate routes . If it 's a major problem , you ought to be fine just hopping on another train , but for localised problems it 's best to get the ticket endorsed so staff on trains + stations elsewhere know immediately what happened .
Yes , you do need an ESTA . <URL> ( = ESTA needed for EU citizens ) , and like all other US airports , <URL> does not recognize the concept of visa-free transit .
As long as you have a UK visa I do n't see why your expiring residence permit should matter . Make sure you enter the UK with the UK visa and not with the residence card .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
If you want to use data on your phone then you need to buy a local SIM card . Do not use data if you are using your original SIM on a roaming plan . The costs are beyond insane . Call Verizon and establish whether your phone is unlocked and whether you are able to change SIMs . If the phone is locked and Verizon wo n't unlock it , then your options are nil , and you have to pay the insane roaming costs . Make sure you understand those costs well before you leave . For advice on how/where to pick up a SIM card , see feklee 's reply to this answer .
Are there any statistics showing the likelihood of mainland Europeans crashing in the UK ? ( my emphasis ) No , not that I can easily find , Rural Scotland The Scottish government publish the following : Tourist activity does significantly boost road accident numbers in the rural tourist areas of Scotland and visitor drivers , including foreign drivers , are involved in a measurably greater number of accidents in the case study areas . Half of the drivers involved in accidents in Scotland were within 5km of their home address and fewer than 2 % were more than 240 km from it . However in the police areas of Grampian , which includes Aberdeenshire and Northern which contains Highland , fewer of the accidents involved drivers who were close to their homes . The involvement of tourists compared with locals in road accidents is probably not excessive in relation to their numbers and the increased mileage they probably drive . The exposure data for foreign drivers is not adequate to establish whether they are at greater risk of an accident than local drivers . The majority of accidents caused by foreign drivers arose from the drivers ' unfamiliarity with driving on the left hand side of the road . The accidents caused by UK visitor drivers may reflect their lack of driving and overtaking experience on rural single carriageway roads , since the crashes in which they were judged to be at fault involved losing control , the negotiation of bends and collision with pedestrians or animals . Local drivers who had caused an accident were most likely to have lost control or to have been driving too fast . <URL> Note the second point there . It may be important to distinguish between " tourists " , " foreign drivers " and " UK visitor drivers " - It is n't immediately obvious if the authors include Welsh , English and Northern Irish tourists in " foreign drivers " . The fourth bullet point suggests not . It is also worth noting that driving on rural roads in Scotland is very different from driving through London in the rush hour . The report draws this useful conclusion : The data revealed that foreign drivers appear to have difficulty remembering which side of the carriageway to drive on . This may occur when no other traffic is around or when they come to the end of a single track road and rejoin a two lane single carriageway , or at view points and resting places So , drill yourself to pay extra attention in those situations :-) UK in general There are some other UK statistics that might be used to produce some measure of the additional risk - if other data could also be found . For foreign truck-drivers , the accident rates on motorways are eight times higher . A third of accidents involving foreign lorries happen on motorways -- nearly eight times higher than the national average rate for the UK 's 70 mph highways -- with experts blaming drivers unfamiliar with UK highways , driving on the ' opposite ' side of the road and often blind-sided . <URL> For foreign drivers in general , there were 18,865 accidents in the UK in 2006 giving rise to insurance claims . Insurance claims involving foreign EU drivers in the UK have grown every year from 2001 to 2006 according to data from the Motor Insurers Bureau ( MIB ) . Since 2001 , collisions involving EU drivers have risen by 61.4 % from 11,685 to 18,865 . <URL> Unfortunately these figures are insufficient to work out the increased likelihood of foreign drivers having an accident in the UK - I think I would need to find numbers of drivers ( and/or road-miles traveled ) for each group )
The official advice is no , you can not enter New Zealand using an expired New Zealand passport . In the case of NZ and Australian passport holders or NZ residents/Australian permanent residents ( with current travel conditions ) , your passport must be valid for enough time to allow you to travel to New Zealand ( ie , it must be valid on the date you are entering/leaving NZ ) . <URL> [ I can see that you might claim that you are a permanent resident and therefore your British passport should suffice as it is valid on arrival . Usually , however the meaning of " permanent resident " is restricted to a non-citizen resident whose foreign passport contains a residency visa . ] TIMATIC , the information used by the airlines , also states this restriction clearly ( full text given at the end of my answer ) . However , it does say that you can enter New Zealand by using a " Certificate of Identity issued by New Zealand " . Whether you would be entitled to leave New Zealand on such a document is not specified . Some commentators have suggested that you will ultimately be admitted because the immigration authorities have no right to deny their own citizens entry . This may be true ( I have not investigated the relevant New Zealand law ) , but it is inadvisable , in my own opinion , for several reasons . The first is that , without an onward ticket out of New Zealand , your air carrier may refuse to fly you back to New Zealand on either a British passport or an expired NZ passport . The second reason is that , on arrival , you may be detained for some time in discomfort while your credentials are investigated . The third reason is that you have not yet begun your trip , and to exit the country you will need to present a passport . Either it is your expired passport , which should not be accepted , or your lack of recent entry stamps in your UK passport might raise eyebrows . Of course it is quite possible that no one will notice that your passport is expired and your trip will be smooth . But I think it is wise to update the document if you can . Full information from TIMATIC .
<URL> You can apply for a General Visitor visa if you 're : 18 or over travelling to the UK for leisure ( not work or study ) able to support yourself for the duration of your trip not in transit to another country , except for Ireland , the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands able to pay for your return or onward journey I might go to the UK and not come back because I might not have enough funds to return to Egypt which is not true That is your assumption . How do you intend to prove it to the visa officer ? You have to give proof to support your point . evidence that you can support yourself during your trip , eg bank statements or payslips for the last 6 months details of where you intend to stay and your travel plans - you should n't pay for accommodation or travel until you get your visa dad 's job or mine As you are the one who is travelling , you have to reveal your financial situation , not your father 's . wanted to visit my cousin , she lives there plus I need to go on a vacation You can not claim to take a vacation as a right and so demand a visa . You have to provide evidence to support your case . If you intend to stay with your cousin , then you will have to provide his ( her ) details too . If you decide to apply for a family visitor visa a letter of invitation from him ( her ) will be required . My mum wrote my application Next time fill your application yourself . Regarding reapplying ( no need to wait for 6 months , I have n't seen any evidence for such till now ) , reapply with the proper documentation . Err on the side of caution and be diligent in providing proof to support your application . Check the link on gov.uk and follow it to the letter .
The student visitor route was <URL> and student visitor visas were " rebranded " into <URL> . At that point your visa automatically converted into a " short-term student " , and those visas are governed by Paragraphs A57A - A57H of the rules ... Rebrand the student visitor , and extended student visitor routes into new routes for short term study , which sit in Part 3 of the Rules , so that the routes are conceptually clearer for those undertaking short courses The rule pertinent to your question is covered in <URL> ... intends to leave the UK at the end of the study or at the end of 6 months whichever is sooner . So you need to figure out which of those two events happen sooner . But ... Because you were caught in a transition , you may wish to challenge it . In that case you should <URL> . Trying to sign up for more courses is unlikely to be successful and may damage future applications . Because you are a visa-national , it could get complex fairly quickly .
There are specific rules by which a <URL> . If your trip to the UK will make you fit the criteria for revocation ( e.g. you 're going to shoot up US embassy or consulate ) then the answer to your question is definitely yes .
Disclaimer : keep in mind that receiving any advice regarding visas from a non-official source ( such as myself and , presumably , most people on this website ) is speculation at best . If you are uncertain , contacting an embassy and/or the company providing the course is highly recommended . That said , sponsorship probably does n't refer to financial sponsorship , but rather a so-called sponsor license that your course provider must possess . To quote the <URL> page from the official website : You must be accepted on a course with an education provider that holds a Tier 4 sponsor licence . On the same website , you can find a complete <URL> and a list of educational institutions that are exceptions to this rule . In short , it 's perfectly OK that you 're supporting yourself ( as long as you can provide bank statements or other evidence that you can ) , but it 's highly recommended that you contact your course provider for help regarding the sponsorship related fields .
For your answer , we can refer to the guidance , which says ... <URL> Source : <URL> So yes , your wife 's application should include your GWF number in the remarks section , and you should include her GWF number in your remarks section and then explain that you are both applying as a family and that your documents cover both of you . There is no requirement that the account ( s ) be jointly held , but it is the normal case when spouses apply together . A note may be appropriate if the account ( s ) are not joint , but that 's your own decision to make .
Visa applications for Australia can be done completely online ! ( For Australia ) So firstly , to confirm , yes <URL> . Then , apply for it online . There are <URL> . Travelers are not required to visit the Australian embassy nor send in their passports . Once online visa applications are approved , applicants will receive their visa by email , which is recognized by all airlines traveling inbound to Australia and provided that all your travel documents are in order , you should have no trouble boarding your flight to Australia .
end question
start question
Where is the highest Bungee jump above sea ?
The highest jump is at the Macau tower , at 233m , but it 's technically a controlled descent , not a true bungee . That 's the Skyjump . They do however , have a bungee with a guide rope there too . However , it 's not over sea or water , as you requested . So then you have to look at the jump from the top of the Verzasca Dam near Locarno , Switzerland . It appears in the opening scene of the James Bond film GoldenEye , and is 220m high ! The Bloukrans Bridge Bungy has been operated by Face Adrenalin commercially since 1997 and uses a pendulum bungee system . It is 216m high , from the platform to the river below . So if you 're wanting one over water , that would qualify as the true highest , and indeed is the highest bridge jump in the world . However , if you 're wanting one over the sea as in ocean ( so not river ) , then you 're going to be looking at the 150m jump in Helsinki , Finland . Source : <URL> and <URL> .
The <URL> that you cite describes getting from Baku to Alat but it is not too hard to backtrack : from Alat port take a minibus / taxi to the bus stop from there take bus 195 to Baku Looking at google maps , <URL> seems to be the Alat port to me . You are looking for transportation from the port to the bus stop where the 195 will take you to Baku . Google directions public transport feat does have the stops of that bus ( and also the schedule ) and the nearest one to the port ( and most logical for minibuses etc. ) seems to be <URL> . Driving distance between the port and the bus stop should be some 3km or 10 mins ( maps is missing a street there so these are my guesses ) . <URL> : A taxi to/from Baku should cost around AZN30 . Alternatively take bus 195 ( 80q ) : after passing through Baș Ələt , get off by the big roundabout , from where waiting taxis charge AZN5 for the last 3km .
This is <URL> in Schwangau , Germany . For more information about the castle and how to visit it , here is the <URL> . Photo from <URL>
Yes it does . The English description is not up to date . There is also a " JUMP 1 day ticket " , which is valid until the end of the day it has been obliterated . This one is still available as a " traditional " magnetic card . Source : STIB Transport rules <URL> If you want a 24/48/72 hours ticket you can also ask for a so-called MOBIB Basic card . It is easier to obtain as it is not personal .
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
According to <URL> the Saarland - and Rheinland-Pfalz-Ticket have the same validity : practically all regional routes inside the Saarland and Rhineland-Palatinate , as well as a few into neighbouring states . The PDF lists all routes where the ticket is valid .
You should stay in Levanto , which is just before Monterosso : it 's much cheaper , and you will have a lot more options regarding accomodation ( B&amp;B s , hotels , etc ) . There is a train station allowing you to go directly to all of the villages if you want to go by train . You can also take the boat , and hop from town to town : it 's really a nice way to discover the villages , I definitely recommend it . There is also a trail linking Levanto to Monterosso if you want to hike ( and then between all villages ) . You should also definitely go to Portovenere ( at the south side ) , real nice as well .
About 18 degrees Celsius , give or take : <URL> And that website seriously hurts my eyes . Somewhat more readable , but not giving historical details : <URL>
OK some success with answers : Nanning , China : latitude 21 ° 29 'N and longitude 108 ° 21 ' E , 1654 . Hong Kong - 22º 15 ' N , 114º 10 ' E , January 1893 . Tampico , Mexico lat 22.2965 ° , long -97.8659 - Feb 1895 . The 1654 Chinese snowfall , near the present-day coastal city of Beihai , was nearest to the equator , at 21 degrees , 29 minutes north latitude . Several centimeters of snow were recorded there . References : <URL> , <URL> .
I would be very shocked if you were not able to buy tickets on the day to visit the Intrepid . There was no indication of a maximum capacity when I visited and it was not timed entry , the usual two reasons for limited tickets being available . There may well be a line but the Intrepid is not really different to any other paid museum on that front .
According to Wikipedia , the <URL> is ignited at Olympia , Greece , from the action of the Sun . No <URL> seems to exist at this site .
The village you are looking for is called Çukurayva , while <URL> is an old Armenian name for the village Tunçkaya .
Temple Bar is generally considered the night life / pub / club centre of Dublin . There is a wide range of accommodation from hostels to quality hotels , and there are a vast number of pubs and clubs within crawling distance .
The capsules from Soyuz - Apollo flight used to be and Apollo 11 command module is at the <URL> . A quick search also gives a list of all remaining <URL> based on that there is only one in Europe in London .
I 've done a tour of the Salt flats in January 2010 which is the summer down there and even then it got cold at night because it is pretty high up - 3,656 meters ( 11,995 ft ) . I did a tour with a local operator as everybody else did , there are dozens of 4x4s out there every day . The accommodation was indeed very basic , especially on the second night . We started in Uyuni and went south , the first night you stay in a small village but the second night is in the middle of nowhere with just a few basic buildings for tourists to spend the night . I 've been inside some of the other buildings but they all looked pretty much the same . You could mention your concerns to your tour operator and ask for the best accommodation there is , but I do n't think there is much choice . It 's not a place where you wonder around and ask for a room , it seems all pre-arranged . I do remember taking some sort of shower and I think it was at least a bit warm . But I do n't remember a fireplace or heating . There were basic beds with blankets and I do n't think I was cold , ( maybe all the wine helped ) but I can imagine it to be very cold in the winter . Several people in our building had severe problems with altitude sickness and going down was no option , so make sure you take some time before going up there . So , just do n't expect any luxury up there and bring warm clothes .
As Έρικ Κωνσταντόπουλος , I doubt that Irrawaddy or Central region have bungee-jumping capabilities , but not based on an undated article that mentions " it may just be a matter of time " . In my case I doubt anywhere in Myanmar yet offers bungee jumping on a regular basis . From the same site as that article ( <URL> ) the question is posed : Who is going to be the first to take a leap in Myanmar ? In this case the article is dated , 26 Mar 2013 . On the Myanmar forum <URL> Maibpenrai , showing as from Bangkok/Yangon , posted shortly after the above ( 15 June 2013 - 07:57 ) : It seems to be than Bungee Jumping in Myanmar is not available yet Thereafter it is a matter of assumptions and deductions . The Burmese do not have a cultural heritage such as Vanuatu has for <URL> and the introduction of bungee jumping there can be expected to relate specifically to the expansion of tourism . ( In <URL> tourist visits numbered only 1.3 M. ) For that advertising can be expected nowadays and this OP 's failure to find what he was looking for can be taken to indicate that such does not exist ( yet ) . The signs are however that it will do before very long , so should be worth monitoring the situation .
As a native Londoner : The weather in the UK is notoriously variable , so the only way to know for sure is to check nearer the time . But it 's likely to be around freezing , maybe as low as -10 C or as high as +10 C. I would certainly bring some warm clothes . Snow is possible , but does n't happen every year . If the weather is very cold or snowy , prepare for potential public transport delays . London is normally dressed up for Christmas , yes . You should find Piccadilly Circus/Oxford Street in particular will have Christmas decorations up . Depending on how close it is to Christmas , prepare for potential crowding in some popular tourist areas ( e.g. Oxford Street is often busy ) . London has a lovely atmosphere around Christmas , though . Hope you enjoy your trip ! Like all enormous cities , plenty will be happening . <URL> is a good place to look for events / restaurants / etc. .
From <URL> , zooming in on the map , we see that the Princes Risborough end of the mustard line is at the junction of Church St , Duke St , and High St. <URL> , we can see a Cycle Route sign indicating that Thame is 7.5 miles away on Route 57 , matching the information on the sustrans page near enough . At the Thame end , we are looking for access from Windmill Road . The signage is even worse here , but there is <URL> . As for Furthermore it seems to be high street and other roads . I was hoping to use it for some running . The name Phoenix Trail seems to sometimes include the 2.5 miles from Princes Riseborough to the traffic-free section , and sometimes not . In <URL> : Distance : 5 miles traffic-free Terrain : Level route on disused railway Getting there : 2 miles signed on road from Princes Risborough to Horsenden But on <URL> The Phoenix Trail is flat , well-surfaced and ideal for wheelchairs and pushchairs . There is also seating every 500 metres . The first 2.5 miles out of Thame are surfaced with tarmac and the remainder with compacted limestone dust . The 5 mile traffic-free section looks like where you want to be running .
Basically the center is around the " <URL> " . On this square you will find the <URL> , <URL> and a <URL> . Plenty of pubs etc. can be found at the " <URL> " , just next to the Grote Markt . There are accommodations in that area or not far from there . If you arrive by train , you can also consider to stay next to the station . Thus you wo n't have to carry your luggage very far . The station is only a 10-15 minutes walk from the main watering holes . <URL> , you will see a yellow circle road . In a larger sense , everything inside this circle could be called the " center " . It is the historical city of Leuven . Crossing this circle by foot takes more or less 20-30 minutes .
There are several sites that offer this information including those for Ski Resorts . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Are there any tours into North Korea that depart from Japan or South Korea ?
In a word ( and a <URL> ) , no . As you 're probably aware , South and North Korea remain ( in theory anyway ) at a state of war and travel between the two is extremely restricted . In the past , there were organized tours from South Korea to <URL> and <URL> , but both have been indefinitely suspended since 2008 or so . Pyongyang has never been accessible to South Koreans . Japan has also banned all direct travel to North Korea for years , but the ban was lifted <URL> . However , it will be a while until anything like group tours for the general public ( as opposed to card-carrying Chongryon members etc ) start happening , and Japanese ability would most likely be required .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
You 're going to have to dig really deep into the specs of the phone to answer your question . The issue is not the features themselves but the frequency spectrum on which these features are available . You can look at : <URL> <URL> to see what is typically available in Israel . From experience : IPhone 4S from AT&amp;T works like a charm in Israel for both Data and Voice . As far as I know GSM Voice Frequencies used in Israel are : 800 ( old , possibly decommissioned ) , 900 , 1800 , which IPhone and most Androids support . The rest you will have to find out . Now if you wanted to use CDMA , like Verizon does in Israel , roaming does n't work on Cellcom 's network as far as last information I have .
It 's pretty hard to prove a negative , but : The largest operator of trips to North Korea , <URL> , does n't mention long hair as an issue in their extensive <URL> or <URL> sections ; It 's not particularly hard to find trip photos featuring <URL> ; And I 'm positive I once read a Pyongyang trip report written by a ponytailed dude , but for the life of me I ca n't find it now .
I 'm not sure what exactly you are worried about , so let me point out a few points : There was an outbreak of the <URL> in South Korea earlier this year . According to the <URL> on the situation from July , there have been no new infections and there should n't be any danger of getting infected any more . You are travelling during the winter months , which in the northern hemisphere is the <URL> ( aka ' the flu ' ) , which is common in most parts of the world . Note that contrary to popular belief the primary use of <URL> is not to protect the wearer from getting sick , but to protect others from being infected by the wearer . While wearing a mask might offer you some protection ( such as preventing you from touching your mouth and nose ) , it is n't very effective , as droplet infection can also occur through the eyes . It also does n't protect you from air pollution , as they do n't filter out fine particles . In summary , I do n't think you need to be overly worried about travelling to South Korea . The chances of you getting a ' life-threatening infection ' are not any higher than in any other developed country .
Officially it varies - the UN does n't recognise Kosovo , but several others do . The big problem for you , as you observed - is Serbia , which considers it to be another province , and indeed administers five of the municipalities . The best warning I can find seems to come from Wikitravel : Visa Restrictions : Serbia officially states that it will block passports containing stamps or visas from Kosovo . However , in practice , immigration officers would usually just cancel the Kosovan stamps and replace them with Serbian ones . If you are just visiting the region , visit Serbia first . You will not be given a Serbian exit stamp if you enter Kosovo from Serbia . If you are living in or intend to travel frequently to Serbia , you should get matching pairs of entry and exit stamps ; this would mean backtracking and leaving through Serbia via a regular border crossing point . If you travel a lot in the region , your passport will be crowded with stamps anyway and border guards may not be able to find the matching stamps , and normally let you pass . Just avoid mentioning Kosovo . You can ask Kosovar authorities not to stamp your passport at the border . So unless you obsess with stamps ( which I can empathise with ) , the simplest solution would be to ask them not to stamp the passport , much like many travellers do with Israel .
There are many old ( ish ) monumental churches all over Western Europe , here are a few options ( based mostly on architecture as I do n't know anything about organs ) : Cologne is certainly well-known and well worth it and it 's also easy to reach by train ( high speed link to Frankfurt , the cathedral is in front of the main train station ) . Mainz , Worms ( technically not a cathedral anymore ) and Speyer are close to Frankfurt ( although the train wo n't get you there much faster than to Cologne ) . The cathedral in Speyer in particular is well-known and , like the one in Cologne , part of UNESCO world heritage . Architecturally , it 's a Romanesque building so an interesting contrast to the Cologne cathedral . The cathedral in Trier also has the same distinction but it 's a bit further away . Aachen is also further away ( 2.5 to 3 hours from Frankfurt by train ) but I personally found the Dom very interesting . It 's very old and quite unique compared to other European churches . There are many less famous old churches closer to Frankfurt . The cathedrals in Limburg and Fulda or the St.-Marienkirche in Marburg could for example be interesting ( as I said , I do n't know much about organs but the last one seems to have a notable one ) . There are many other interesting churches in Bavaria ( Ulm , Bamberg , Passau for the organ ... ) or Eastern Germany ( Naumburg , Magdeburg , Dreden ... ) but that might be a bit too far for you .
I 'm afraid I ca n't find any government numbers to back up my anecdotal evidence , but Shinjuku , Shibuya and Ikebukuro are all very safe - much safer than their equivalents in London , New York or any other ' world ' city . I 've spent many nights in each , in varying states of sobriety , and never had any problems at all . I 've lost my wallet a few times ( on trains , in bars and the like ) and never failed to retrieve it - either at the time from a fellow reveller , or at a police box ( koban ) later on . Kabuki-cho is the closest thing you 'll get to a ' red light ' district . Plenty of ' love hotels ' , hostess clubs , adult shops and yakuza ( Japanese mob ) to go around . Even so , much like Amsterdam 's equivalent , it 's as much an entertainment spot and centre of nightlife as it is a red light district . Whilst I would n't go swearing in Japanese at any of the well-heeled , little-finger-deprived yakuza that hang out there , they will seldom even look at a foreigner , never mind cause them any trouble . Too much hassle . Roppongi is slightly different in that it 's really a foreigner hotspot - plenty of dodgy bars and clubs , particularly of the ' hostess ' variety , which will invite you in and charge you hundreds of dollars for a drink and some chat time with a Japanese hostess . Technically you 're paying for the drink , but argue at the price and expect a rude exit from the establishment . If there were anywhere in Tokyo you should n't go , it 'd be here at night - but only because it 's not very nice , as opposed to dangerous . During the day Roppongi has some rather spectacular architecture , and is home to a bunch of Western and Japanese companies , as well as a ton of embassies . Not really a hellhole by any standards . As with any country , common sense rules . Make sure to keep your valuables in a safe place or tucked away on your person . If you 're dangling a wallet full of holiday fun time yen as you saunter through a train station it 's more likely someone will try to help you and point it out , but still , it 's better not to in the first place . Do n't leave luggage lying about either - it wo n't get stolen , but the police do n't like that sort of thing in case it 's something more sinister . Long story short - at no point in Tokyo will you ever cross some boundary from ' nice part crime-wise ' to ' holy christ it 's the Baltimore projects ' . Those boundaries do n't really exist .
I think there is explanation of your question <URL> the siren will most likely only ever be a test out here . Check the time if you do hear it . 11am or 2pm on the dot are generally the test times . The siren will last 2-3 minutes then stop .
It 's rare for tornadoes elsewhere , commercially at least . From <URL> : Some organized chasing efforts have also begun in the Top End of the Northern Territory and in southeast Australia , with the biggest successes in November and December . A handful of individuals are also known to be chasing in other countries , including Israel , Italy , Spain , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Finland , Germany , Switzerland , Bulgaria , Estonia , Argentina , and New Zealand ; although many people trek to the Great Plains of North America from these and other countries around the world ( especially from the United Kingdom ) . Overall , Australia seems like your best bet . It 's mostly enthusiasts up north , but they 're growing in numbers . A nice report on it <URL> , as well as <URL> . <URL> is probably your best bet for news on tornadoes and the like there , and <URL> would be the one to follow or contact to find out about any commercial groups operating . There are a few other random Storm Chasing websites in Aus , but they tend to be small individual groups , rather than commercial - however , you might find them keep to take you out for a trip , if you 're lucky : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Finally , it 's worth noting that most American Storm Chasing companies will keep an eye on the Canadian Prairies , especially during June - as there is the occasional opportunity for it up there , depending on the weather .
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
You can also catch a glimpse of North Korea on the Jayu-ro highway , for instance around <URL> . Nothing very interesting though , just some hills across the sea . The tour I took to DMZ ( you ca n't get there without a tour ) took us via that road , because it 's one of the easiest places to see North Korea close to Seoul . According to our tour guide , you notice that all trees are chopped down , hence it must be North Korea .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
No there is not . All countries in South-East Asia require licenses to drive a motorcycle , and even more so to rent one . That even goes for more remote locations like Laos , Cambodia and Myanmar . I want to add that there are countries like India where driving yourself is a REALLY bad idea . If you are in the countryside and have an accident where you injure someone or damage something valuable ( a holy cow for example ) , there is a risk that a mob from a local village attempts to kill you . Literally . Expats in India are generally not allowed and are forced to have a driver . So please check for each country if it 's smart do drive by yourself .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Basically , no . As my Colombian flatmate in London put it , every time a revolution occurs , the first thing that gets hit is the infrastructure , and down goes the rail . Not sure how accurate that is in all countries , but it 's certainly the case in Argentina , Chile , Bolivia , Peru , Ecuador , and Colombia . There are some limited train options in Argentina - from Buenos Aires to nearby cities ( like Rosario ) . However the buses are cheaper , and faster , and it 's not far , so why you 'd take the train I 'm not sure . There 's also a train from Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes in Peru for Machu Picchu tourists , but that 's a few hours . Worth it though if you are n't hiking , as the views are spectacular ! There 's also a <URL> tourist train from Salta , Argentina , but it 's a one-day thing and comes back to Salta at night . However , not to worry ! The buses , especially in Argentina and Chile , are absolutely fantastic ! For example , a <URL> . They inevitably have movies , great seats that for a few extra euros you can convert to seats that become beds ( known as full-cama ) , and can get food options from crackers up to roasts ! Bolivia and Peru were n't quite as luxurious , in fact I found the buses in Bolivia painful ( but they were cheap ) , although near Lima in Peru you could find the full range of luxury if you so wanted .
Those onsen requiring swimsuits are basically those in amusement parks or other trendy non-traditional facilities . Anything else , you can rest assured will not require swimsuits .
It is indeed difficult to find information about this if you ca n't read Japanese or Korean . Most ferries are passengers only . I ended up asking a friend in Japan : There is at least one car ferry between Busan ( Korea ) and Fukuoka ( Japan ) run by <URL> . The information I got says that the cheapest room category is included in the car price , but for the driver only . This means that at least for this ferry , additional car passengers have to pay extra . Whether that additional fee is the same as the single passenger fare I do n't know . Also this does n't mean there are no other companies out there with different conditions but I pretty much doubt that . The question to ask would be ' Are there any ferries in the world that charge per car including all passengers ? ' Edit : My second source in Fukuoka came back to me : There is another ferry between Busan and Shimonoseki operated by ' <URL> ' . Again it seems you have to pay by passenger . Also for the ferry from Busan to Fukuoka you have to buy a return ticket for your car . There are no one-way tickets available . This should n't concern any hitch-hikers though .
As russian , I should mention other firm , much more popular here in Russian : <URL> They have a good set of offers , including Eco projects with volunteer work ( linked above ) , and more traditional tours . I think you should check the <URL> - if they are offering the climbing tour , they definitely can provide a tour with boat :) Even if they do n't , you can order the guided tour , and take the boat with you . Another interesting site is about <URL> , with schedule of department ( only in Russian ) . Good luck with your tours and welcome to Russia . PS : All of my friends who have visited the Baikal were using their own initiative - order tickets to the Irkutsk , and after that move to the Baikal and camp there in open zones - outdoor tourism is allowed in Russia and very popular from the Soviet times . If you have a friends inside Russia , try to use this option - its much more cheaper and fun :)
end question
start question
Where in Europe can I find monuments and museums about Napoléon Bonaparte ?
You could start your tour in Paris , visiting the grave of Napoleon in <URL> . Napoleon is buried there since December 1840 . After that you could visit <URL> on the island Saint Helena . Napoleon has spent his last days there . Also worth a visit is <URL> in Vienna . Not only because Napoleon has spent the time there during the occupation of Vienna , but also because it is a nice palace with a lot of sights . There is a reason why this is a world heritage site ;) All images are from Wikipedia .
Exactly what Mark Mayo said , just check Google next time or go to Delhi 's main bazaar and ask in any of the music instrument shops , most of them offer sitar lessons and they all provide sitars for it . Here is a one that was recommended by a fellow traveler when I mentioned this question over dinner : Dhingra Musicals Rajat is giving the lessons in a room just above his shop and it is located at Main Bazaar in Paharganj , shop No. 1086 e-mail : dhingra.sons@yahoo.co.in Cell : 9911043900 or 9818536666 One lesson is 700 Rp and if you want to take 10 , it will be 3750 Rp but you can , of course , <URL> . You can buy a small sitar for 2600 Rp and a big one for around 6500 Rp .
Public system Any nurse can do that also in Portugal . Going to a " centro de saúde " is a good choice . These are part of the national health system . In principle you do n't need an appointment . Just go there and explain the reason . That is so fast and simple that they may solve it immediately . Be prepared and take some " patience " with you though . The system usually works well but you can always get some " old school " public servant . Being a foreigner you will most likely be very well treated . Portuguese in general are very pleasant , and like foreign visitors , but be prepared for that 0.1 % chance . You might need to wait or return another day if it 's crowded . It 's hard to tell since that varies a lot in geographical area and time of the year . In any case you can always call first to <URL> ( 808 24 24 24 ) . This is a phone line from the national helth system to give advice about daily health problems ( not urgency , that is 112 ) . They will be able to help , and I would probably do this first . They can even point you to the nearest " centro de saúde " Private options There are also many private nurses / offices . It should n't be hard to find one . And a simple treatment/thing should be very cheap . You can look in yellow pages for nurses : <URL> You can also ask in a pharmacy where you can do it . There are many and often offer more services than just selling drugs ( they often have specialized personnel ) . They might actually remove stitches or point you in the right direction . I would definitely visit one to know . If they 're not too busy I would n't be surprised that they helped you , even if they do n't offer the service by default . And without any promise , I would n't even be surprised if they did n't charge for such a thing .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
A website of <URL> , marked on a map for your convenience ! :) ( the red markers have a low fee ; the green markers are free )
There are health concerns , mostly related to the fact that they can carry infection on their feet and mouth parts as they will walk through all sorts of substances you would not want in your mouth , so cleaning food preparation or serving surfaces is recommended . They like dark crevices - especially in kitchens , where food could fall in cracks or under cupboards - and where there is ample food they will multiply incredibly fast . Turning on lights causes them to scatter for shelter . If your luggage is closed they are n't likely to actively try to get into it , and while it is always a good idea to shake out boots in hotter climates , they are n't like scorpions or other active predators . They are endemic in many parts of the world , but for most people the worst that happens is that you step on one in the morning , which does leave a very nasty mess on your bare feet , a bad smell , and an urge to wash :-) tl ; dr - use a disinfectant for surfaces , turn on lights a few seconds before getting out of bed or going into a room to give them a chance to run back under appliances , and generally learn to ignore them . ( I find them disgusting , and am glad they do n't really exist in Scotland - they make my skin crawl )
In Krakow , PL , you can visit the Schindler 's Factory , about what Schindler did to save jews giving them jobs . A really good museum . In Oświęcim , PL , you can visit <URL> ( Auschwitz is the german writing of the town 's name ) , you can go there from Krakow or Katowice by bus or train . You will see the horror factory-sized . In Budapest , HU , you can visit the House of Terror , which is about <URL> , the hungarian national socialist party .
I know that some starwood hotels allow you to entirely skip the check-in process and simply walk up to your room and <URL> ; although this is n't anonymous . I also know of some hotels that allow you to check in as an alias ; but again , this is n't anonymous this is just an extra layer of privacy to prevent people from asking for you by simply calling the reception . It is also used as a layer of security by some . Truly anonymous clandestine checkin - where you simply open a door , walk up to the key rack , pick up your key and go off to your room , if there is such a place , I would definitely like to visit it . It may have been possible years ago , but this day of cross border terrorism and whatever else , data collection has become a sort of fever for any and all jurisdictions that hope to attract any kind of tourist dollars . You may have been able to do so previously , but I doubt you can today : Even if you use a pre-paid anonymous card , or have someone else pay for your room booking , you need to show proof of who you are when you arrive to collect the keys . The name on the reservation has to match the person asking for the key . This name can be an alias , but that is not the definition of anonymous . Further , it goes towards security and liability on the part of the hotel . God forbid there is some incident - say a fire or other such security issue , they need to know who is checked in where , who is accounted for , etc. . As mentioned by others , some jurisdictions mandate collection of hotel guest data as part of their overall security procedures/requirements - if they do n't they are breaking the law and may be subject to fines or worse suspension of their license to operate . It may be true that you are able to skip a lot of this formality if you use more informal means of stay ( like airbnb , hostels , or staying with friends/colleagues ; room sharing ) but I do n't think that was in scope of your question .
You 're unlikely to find a place to rent a laptop anywhere in the city , as that 's not something most people are interested in . However it should n't be to hard to get a used laptop <URL> . Prices start from $ 100 , depending on condition .
Assuming you 're also exluding mountains only accessible by <URL> , the highest one I 've heard of is <URL> ( 3438 m ) in Italy near the border to France . Here 's a <URL> . The most difficult/dangerous part can be seen at 1:40 - and you can see that it 's a very popular tour .
It appears <URL> . All of this answer will be based on the info there but since you seemed not satisfied with it you should come back here after your trip and give an answer based on your personal experience . As reported in the forum post , there are ATMs in Beyneu so you can always withdraw some tenge . I also see <URL> so you might also be able to exchange if you prefer . <URL> . It says ATM 's ( bankomat in Russian ) are found on every major street in big cities . You can withdraw money with Visa , Mastercard or Maestro . The occasional refusal of your card is to be expected , but most ATM 's accept a wide range of foreign bank cards . In smaller towns , there probably will not be an ATM available for cash withdrawal . I 'm not sure if Beyneu qualifies as a big city so that one is up for judgement , but it also says : Currency exchange in Kazakhstan can be found on every street corner . Rates are competitive , once you leave the airport or train station . Main currencies that are traded with tenge are US dollar , Euro , British pound , Russian rouble , Kyrgyz som and Chinese yuan . so you will find some way of getting enough tenge I 'm pretty sure . If not , as pointed out in the forum , you should be able to pay your ride with dollars at a less advantageous price .
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
A quick Google search got me to <URL> with Krakow city guide . The map is pretty detailed and is in image form already so you can print it easily . Since I 've already been to Krakow , I can tell you that this map is quite adequate if you plan on visiting major attractions and explore the city center .
Wikipedia is actually quite useful for that . It has a <URL> . I can easily find flights to some of them on the usual search engines , mostly with TAP through Lisbon . <URL> , the flag carrier , also appears to offer many flights . If you want to do a " broad search " , without specifying an airport , you can also use <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . All three accept a country name as destination and the first one even searches other modes of transportation and some charter/low-cost carriers . If you do n't find what you want through the search engines , you can also check the airport pages on Wikipedia . There is an article about most of them , typically with a mostly up-to-date list of destinations and carriers . Thus , you can for example easily find out that TUIFlyNordic offers flights to <URL> from Arlanda ( apparently sold through <URL> ) .
Pro tip : The Spanish word for to dive is bucear and the word for shark is tiburón . If you browse with Google Chrome it has built in support for Google Translate so you do n't have to copy and paste URLs between windows or tabs . The Spanish newspaper El País had an article two years ago which is online called <URL> " Ten places to dive with sharks " . Two of the places it lists are in Europe . One seems to be in nature , and the other not : 06 Scotland The Isle of Mann , in the Irish sea , is a much more economically accessible zone from Spain . The traveller will be able to enjoy very different landscapes to the previous , with a predominance of cliffs and green valleys typical of the zone . Under the water , you can bump into the basking shark , also of a large size , but not bigger than a whale . A species that , occasionally , has put in appearances at the Spanish coast . 10 Madrid Yes , Madrid . Without beach , of course , but where all who have been bitten by the bug will be able to slip between these animals that amaze and terrify at once . And for a much more accessible price . The Zoo Aquarium of Madrid has launched the activity " Diving with Sharks " . Though the sharks do not swim free and the diver is submerged ( for an hour ) in a tank of salt water , it is possible to see nurse , bull , and grey sharks at close range . The activity costs 300 euro and takes place on the weekends . Now , if by " South America " you actually mean " Latin America including Central America and Mexico " then there are some more options : 05 Mexico ( North America ) This country has several reefs . At Guadalupe Island , where you can dive with great white sharks and at Isla Holbox to find whale sharks . In the waters that surround this 43 kilometre-long island , live other species of large size , like groupers , bonito and snapper , and less stress for the diver . Guadalupe Island is about 290 square kilometres and is characterized by its volcanic rock ever present in the lives of the locals . 08 Costa Rica ( Central America ) Cocos Island is perfect for enjoying schools of hammerhead sharks , that is , groups with a large number of specimens . Possibly , the hammerhead is one of the most recognizable species thanks to the unique shape of its head . Additionally , the diver also has the possibility of spotting skates , rays and tuna here during the dive . The natural value of this island has made it be declared a World Heritage Site . Now a simple <URL> off the top of my head turns up a lot more . So many I did n't attempt to read through any of them thoroughly since it 's time for bed but here 's a sample of the countries there were hits for : <URL> , <URL> , <URL> - Happy researching !
The vast majority of UK rail fares are " settled " between <URL> through a central system called the <URL> ( RSP ) . When you do a search on <URL> you will see RSP fares ( some exceptions may include some <URL> fares ) . TOCs can discount certain TOC-only Advance fares ( i.e. Advance fares that are for routes wholly within their TOC franchise area ) in order to attract customers to book directly with them rather than with a third-party retailer like TheTrainline ( or another TOC ) . The TOC still has to pay the full pre-agreed price through RSP , meaning that they will be making a loss on these discounted fares ( offsetting the loss as a marketing cost because the customer is likely to book directly with them again in future ) . Rather than selling tickets to individual customers , " rail-appointed agents " are usually <URL> buying tickets on behalf of corporate travellers ( see <URL> ) . My understanding is that agents can only issue fares via RSP just like any TOC or online third-party retailer , and do not have access to any special fares . It is therefore likely that you have discovered some sort of anomaly and it is not actually possible to purchase the fare . However , if you are able to provide further information about the TOC and the fare in question I will be able to provide a more precise answer . The regulation of fares and the franchising system in general is a mess and there are some odd exceptions to the rules , and so it would be worth providing more detail . To answer your question about Loco2 , if and when we start selling UK rail we would unfortunately be unlikely to be able to offer any special fares , only what is available in RSP ( i.e. the prices you see on National Rail or TheTrainline etc ) . A " rail-appointed travel agent " is an offline agent , whereas as a third-party online retailer ( whilst still an " agent " ) connects its software to the RSP system somehow . Loco2 would count as the latter .
In Germany , the Zoos of <URL> and <URL> have Dolphin exhibits/shows ( another one in [ Münster ] will be shut down this fall ) . The one in Nürnberg is probably closest to you and also seems to be the largest . But note that there 's considerable controversity about whether keeping Dolphins in indoor pools constitutes animal abuse , given that even the largest pools are tiny in comparison with their natural movement habits .
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
I just realised what the correct answer is - a bit slow before . I 'm in Auckland , NZ . If still of use please contact me ( see profile page ) . Place data on a USB memory stick . Trust me :-) Give me memory stick and upload details . It will not be vastly fast , but I can set it to chug along as a background task on std ADSL throttled to a rate that does not annoy my game playing son too much . From your point of view it will be " as good as done " once you give me the data , so very fast . The recently introduced VDSL is probably fast enough for you . Actually claims to be faster than fibre best case . Reality varies . Up to 70 Mbps down and 10 Mbps up ( !!! ) Finding someone with it is probably a matter of asking . Telecom - > XTRA - > Spark call it " Ultra VDSL " Here is the <URL> complete with a " check your address " box . And <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What is the best way to get from the airport to center of Buenos Aires ?
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
The best cheaper way I 've found to get from Fez to Algiers is flying via Barcelona . As of April 2016 , Fez - Barcelona - Fez is around $ 35-50 on Ryanair , and Barcelona - Algiers - Barcelona is around $ 110 on Vueling , for a total price of $ 150 ( round trip ) .
~ 15 hours is not that long to be on the road in Argentina . ;-) You can indeed save time by flying , but if you 're not in a hurry , buses are comfortable and a lot cheaper . ( Especially since foreigners have to pay more than locals on Aerolíneas Argentinas , or so I 've heard/read ) . A site called <URL> * is great for checking Argentine bus timetables &amp; buying tickets ( you can print them ) . Locals turned me onto it ; it 's handier than checking websites of individual operators . With a quick look , 3 companies ( Crucero Del Norte , Rio Uruguay , Expreso Singer ) run services between BA ( Retiro ) and Puerto Iguazú , totalling 12 daily departures , with travel time around 17 -- 19 hours and prices from 912 to 1203 $ AR ( USD 107 -- 141 ) [ as of November 2014 ] . * Plataforma 10 seems to cover most Argentinian bus companies , but unfortunately not all . At least <URL> also operates the Buenos Aires -- Puerto Iguazú route but you ca n't find it on Plataforma 10 . I agree <URL> that you should definitely pay the ( smallish ) extra amount for " cama " , " cama suite " or " cama ejecutivo " ( or whatever the best option is called ) for longer trips . With the fully reclining seat you 'll get at least some sleep . But reserve early , as these seats tend to get sold out first ! ( I speak with experience from 21 hrs in semi-cama . )
By searching <URL> from Kansai-airport to Osaka station it seems that the last train runs at 23:32 and costs 1190 JPY . Your ability to make this will depend a lot on how smoothly everything goes in the airport . There are also night busses as you said . Depending on where you are going where are two options : <URL> . <URL> . Theese both have the price of 1550 JPY but keep going further into the night meaning you can catch them for sure . The last option is the Kintetsu nankai line which is right next to the JR station , <URL> . However the last train here leaves at 23:40 which might work as well . If you take the Nankai to the end station which is Osaka-Namba it has a few different costs depending on the train type . 920 JPY for Airport Exp . 1430 JPY for Limited Exp ( Regular ) 1640 JPY for Limited Exp ( Super ) <URL>
You have at least two options : Bus + train The nearest railway station to Courmayeur is Pré-St . Didier , approximately 6 km from Courmayeur . To get from Courmayeur to Pré-St . Didier , take a bus with <URL> . This bus departs several times per day and takes 10 minutes . You need <URL> . It 's also possible to take this bus all the way to Aosta , but it 's perhaps more interesting to change to the train . For the train from either Pré-St . Didier or Aosta to Milano Centrale , you can use the search engine at <URL> . To get from Pré-St . Didier to Milano Centrale , you need to take the train to Aosta , then Aosta -- Ivrea , Ivrea -- Chivasso and Chivasso -- Milano . This route takes 4 hours 18 minutes and costs $ 17.40 . There are other routes that take longer . Note that <URL> , used by bahn.de and other websites , is incomplete . It claims a journey trip from Pré St. Didier to Milan takes 6 hours 55 minutes , by train to Aoste , bus to Martigny , train via Visp to Milano . This is neither fastest nor cheapest ! By bus all the way SAVDA also operate <URL> . Times and frequency depend on the time of day . The bus takes approximately 3 1/2 -- 4 hours , and costs $ 18 .
Easy . For starters , there 's a bus ( do n't take it ) from Venuezuela via Lima and Santiago to Buenos Aires that I was told about while there , takes a week . But gives you an idea of the max time you might spend on buses , given you 're doing a bit of tracking around . Lima to Arequipa and then Cusco can be done in 1-4 days depending on what stops you want to do . I recommend a side trip to Colca Canyon near Arequipa , go find the Condors . Inca Trail and Machu Picchu are obviously done together , you could allow a week for acclimatisation and the trail , including some time in Cusco . 8 hours by bus to Lake Titicaca ( Puno ) . You do n't need more than a day or two at max here . Most travellers just do n't like it that much , and some feel the reed islands are a scam , but if you 're like me and dreamed of seeing the lake , you can and will still enjoy it . 5 hours by bus to La Paz . 2-3 days here - things like the Death Road , exploring the city and more . Overnight bus to Uyuni , and then a salt flats tour . Worth noting that the ' best ' option is to carry on through to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile , but some do go in a sort of loop back to Tupiza , from memory . If you did go to San Pedro , it 's then 10 hours by bus to Salta in Argentina and another 20 to Buenos Aires . Heck , you could even go down to Santiago and Mendoza ( wine country !!! ) and then across to Buenos Aires . See how your time is going and go with the flow . I 've not been to Bonito and the falls , although I 'd ask why not Iguazu Falls ? However , the main thing - do n't overplan it . Give yourself 6 weeks from Lima to Buenos Aires , and pick the things that are absolute musts . Then let other travellers fill in the gaps with suggestions . You may find yourself in Nazca , seeing the Nazca Lines , going to the jungle in Bolivia , wine country in Argentina , or even down the coast from Buenos Aires ( 20 hours ) to the wildlife area around Puerto Madryn ( whales !! ) . I spent 4 months tracking around several of these countries , but a friend I traelled with for a bit went from Santiago and Mendoza , up to Iquique , across to La Paz , Lake Titicaca , Cusco + Machu Picchu ( train not trail though ) , Arequipa and Colca Canyon , Nazca and Lima in 3 weeks , without rushing . Yes it 's a lot of bussing , but you get used to it , and some of the buses in Peru , Chile and Argentina are surprisingly luxurious for a few extra dollars ( think beds ! ) . Look for full-cama/cama-suite buses . I did n't finish all my posts on South America , but <URL> has quite a few posts on some of the places you are talking about , which may be of interest for timeframes - I tend to describe the transportation quite a bit too .
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
You 'll want to go to a locutório ( like a small shop ) . It 'll be called that - " Locutório " with a purple sign saying " SUBE " in the window . Where are these shops ? There 's a handy website that <URL> . Then according to a <URL> : You 'll fill out a small application with your name , address , and passport/DNI number and pay the $ 20 ARS . However , your card will not come loaded with funds and the locutório may not charge SUBE cards . So you will have to find a kiosko that does . There are many along Santa Fe that sport the SUBE logo in their windows . These places may or may not be able to charge your card at that time , so again , you 'll just have to ask . When you find a charging station , you can have up to $ 50 ARS put on the card at a time . The clerk will charge your card on a space age sensor machine and hand you a receipt with the proof of funds .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
It 's entirely possible , cheap , and simple . Go to the main bus terminal in Puerto Iguazu . Get on a bus going to Ciudad del Este ( it 'll likely just say ' Paraguay ' ) , and it travels across into Brazil to Foz Iguacu , and then across another bridge into Ciudad del Este . You 'll go through customs/border at Argentina/Brazil , and then ... probably again going into Paraguay . Talk to the bus driver , at this point it gets a little sketchy , but ... yeah , sometimes they just skip the border . From <URL> : Let 's just say hypothetically there 's this bus , and there 's this hypothetical driver , who upon hearing that the only non-local on the bus only wants to go into the border town , ca n't be bothered getting the tourist a stamp , drives on through the express customs lane for locals , and says he can just do the same on the way back after picking the tourist up again . Imagine that . Hypothetically of course . Hypothetically said tourist would hypothetically be in Paraguay without a visa and without a stamp , wandering around Ciudad del Este . But yes , there is a bus , and it does take you via Ciudad del Este - and indeed it continues all the way to Asuncion if you really wanted to go that far . It 's very easy , and all it really requires is you getting on the bus . But do make sure that you have a visa for Paraguay , and check whether you need one for Brazil as well .
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
The easiest way is indeed a taxi , and yes , that price sounds about right , although it 's a regular metered fare so the exact cost will vary . Not every taxi will be willing to up and off to Abu Dhabi on a lark though , but the airport taxi stand can sort one out if you ask , or you can call and book a cab . As for safe , well ... most UAE cabbies drive fairly sanely by the standards of the region , but the Dubai-Abu Dhabi highway always has the occasional blinged-up rich kid doing 300km/h in the fast lane in Daddy 's Lamborghini . The cheaper and safer , but slower and less convenient , option is the <URL> bus , Dhs 20 one-way . Buses leave from Ghubaiba station , on the Dubai Metro Green Line , every 30 min or so .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
end question
start question
How to get to London Heathrow from Shepherd 's Bush in light of possible Tube strike ?
Google Maps has a pretty good knowledge of the London public transport . <URL> will show you several options , which will all have you arriving before 6:40 am on Saturday ( tomorrow -- although any Saturday ought to be roughly the same ) . The one that looks the most attractive to me is the last one , which is to take the 295 bus ( although 283 may be just as good ) to Hammersmith , then the Picadilly line to LHR . It includes only 6 minutes of walking . On the London Tube web site you can see the <URL> as well as <URL> . Whether a strike-caused outage would be posted early enough to help you make your travel plans , I have no idea . I suggest waking up a bit early and checking , just in case . Then at least you 'll have the option to call a taxi in time , if the worst should happen .
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
If you 're only going to be travelling within London ( i.e. not starting outside of London , and not visiting outside of London ) , then by far and away your best bet is either <URL> , or a <URL> . TFL have a <URL> on the Oyster Card , with details of how to get one . They also have a <URL> which explains what kinds of contactless payment cards they do and do n't support . Prices for Oyster and Contactless are , for most purposes , basically the same , and much lower than paper tickets . TFL have a dedicated <URL> including a handy intro video . One of the great things about an Oyster card or Contactless is that it 'll start out in Pay As You Go mode , then if you happen to spend enough in one day that a travel card would have been cheaper , then it 'll cap the cost at the travelcard fee for the rest of the day . It 's valid on the tube , on buses , on trains within London , and the DLR . If you 're starting from outside London each day , then it may make sense to buy a travelcard as part of a train ticket to London . Depends if you 're going to be doing lots of travel in London or not that day . However , you ca n't buy a ticket that 's ( Somewhere ) - > London , returning the next day , with travelcards both days , you can only get a travelcard valid for a day return ticket . So , if you were to be doing a trip in , travel round London for a few days , then a return , you 'd be better off with Oyster / Contactless . With contactless , you need a bank card / credit card of the right type to be supported by TFL . Check <URL> to see if yours will be . Contactless has the advantage of offering a weekly cap too , which Oyster does n't . Oyster has the advantage of being able to load weekly or longer travelcards onto it , can support discounts for railcards etc ( normally only useful for UK visitors ) , and Oyster can be topped up in one go while Contactless charges once per day , which can make a difference for overseas cards with usage fees . TL ; DR Do n't buy paper tickets for London only - use Oyster or Contactless , or possible a rail ticket with a travel card included in it .
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
Yes , it can be done quite easily ! <URL> to doing so , which is well worth a read ! On weekends during the winter , there are two direct Eurostar services between London and Moutiers , Aime &amp; Bourg St Maurice . There are daytime trains both ways on Saturdays , or an overnight one out on Friday nights , back on Saturday night ( but it does n't have beds , just seats ) . A large number of the popular resorts are just a short transfer away from these stations ( tens of minutes , not several hours ! ) Another option is to take the Eurostar to Paris , then either a daytime TGV to the alps , or an overnight sleeper ( with couchette beds ! ) . This does involve a cross-Paris transfer though , which might be an issue depending on luggage - it 's a single metro ride with a few flights of stairs to cross Paris . Alternately , for the Swiss alps , and some bits of France ( eg Chamonix ) , you can take a Eurostar then Lyria TGV , with a cross-platform change in Lille . These services are generally unaffected by the weather - in January 2013 when there was a lot of snow in the UK and northern France , lots of flights were cancelled , but the daytime Eurostar was only a few minutes late into Bourg !
Yes there is : <URL> , specifically the <URL> , which offers sensible alternatives automatically . For example , if you enter a query like " <URL> " , it will tell you that you can take the Tube ( every 2 min , estimated time 6 min ) and that you could just walk it ( estimated time 11 min ) .
Considerations : Dulles ( like BWI ) lies a considerable distance from the District ; there are no " obvious " options because each involves a tradeoff of time or money . Only Reagan National ( DCA ) is truly convenient to the city . If you have a large party or many bags , a taxi may be worth the hassle . There is no place to store bags when using public transportation , and a single ride on Metro can involve six or seven escalators -- which these days are often out of service . The Metro system is undergoing considerable construction and maintenance on evenings and weekends ; at other times it can be quite crowded . This has negatively impacted its speed and reliability . Silver Line Express bus Washington Flyer bus While the <URL> Metrorail does n't reach Dulles yet , the opening of its first phase to Wiehle-Reston East is already making your transit choices more interesting . The Washington Flyer shuttle to West Falls Church has been discontinued . The <URL> is its replacement , and is both cheaper and more frequent than its predecessor ( but see below ) . It will depart every 15-20 minutes from Wiehle-Reston East between 6am and 10:40 pm daily . From Dulles , Silver Line Express tickets will be sold on the arrivals level of the Main Terminal , and the bus will depart from Door # 4 ( where the Washington Flyer used to depart ) . The fare is a flat $ 5 each way . Note that this bus is operated by the airports authority , not by Metro , and so the WMATA SmarTrip card is not accepted for payment . The coaches are dedicated to the purpose , and include a luggage compartment below the cabin . Free Wi-Fi is promised on-board . The more frequent and faster connection to rail is made possible because of the shorter distance the bus travels , but of course this means a slightly higher Metro fare to cover that distance . Operationally , it will also take some months for Metro to get the kinks out of the Silver Line with regards to timing , as was the case for the other major expansions . Metrobus 5A A second , potentially cheaper option is to take the <URL> to Rosslyn ( ~ 45 minutes ) , then transfer to the Blue/Orange/Silver Line and ride out to Eastern Market ( 25 minutes ) . You can also stay on the 5A all the way to the end of the line at L'Enfant Plaza and board the Blue/Orange/Silver from there . This will take longer and mean more time on the bus , but if you arrive during the morning rush hour , it may be more civilized to keep your seat on the bus than to contend with the crowds at Rosslyn . The 5A is an express service that makes only one or two stops before Rosslyn ; however , it is an ordinary public bus , so at best it will have overhead racks for small bags , and it is often crowded . On the other hand , the fare is only $ 7 , whether using cash or a SmarTrip card . Bring exact change if paying with the former . Taxis You can pre-negotiate a pickup from a taxi company ( other than the airport taxi ) . The Washington Flyer Taxi has a monopoly on service to the airport and its <URL> are fixed ( about $ 75 to Eastern Market plus surcharges and tips ) . You can privately arrange for a different taxi or car service to pick you up , however , just as you might ask a friend or family member to pick you up . You can avoid the hassle of the taxi stand and maybe a few dollars as well , and if you come to Washington frequently , may be worth the investment of getting to know and keep a favorite driver . Uber / Lyft The legal status of Uber and Lyft in Virginia , as in many jurisdictions , is in flux . They can drop off passengers in Virginia , but have not been permitted to pick them up there in the past , including the airports . At this writing they are <URL> . Prices range from $ 50 for UberX to $ 105 for an UberSUV . Shared Van Another option is to take one of the shared van services . SuperShuttle 's <URL> is operated by the same company which runs the taxi fleet . <URL> began operating around 2012 . The vans make the most sense if you are traveling alone to a destination not well-served by Metro , but the rides can take a very , very long time if you are one of the later passengers to be dropped off . From Dulles , I generally only recommend this service for people traveling to the Virginia suburbs . One-way car rental Yet another option that makes sense for some is to <URL> from Dulles and return it to Reagan National the same day . Some rental agencies may waive the one-way fee on certain rate codes . If you have a good-sized party or many bags , this is sometimes an option . Of course , at least one person will need to take Metro or a taxi from Reagan National back to where you are in Eastern Market , and driving this route can be dicey during rush hours or if you are unfamiliar with the area .
Google Maps has a pretty good knowledge of the London public transport . <URL> will show you several options , which will all have you arriving before 6:40 am on Saturday ( tomorrow -- although any Saturday ought to be roughly the same ) . The one that looks the most attractive to me is the last one , which is to take the 295 bus ( although 283 may be just as good ) to Hammersmith , then the Picadilly line to LHR . It includes only 6 minutes of walking . On the London Tube web site you can see the <URL> as well as <URL> . Whether a strike-caused outage would be posted early enough to help you make your travel plans , I have no idea . I suggest waking up a bit early and checking , just in case . Then at least you 'll have the option to call a taxi in time , if the worst should happen .
The route depends on how far you want to run , if you want to get buses , etc. . Really , it 's just getting the train timetables and matching them all up . Problems The Hainault Loop : The Central Line runs from Ealing Broadway - Hainualt ( via Newbury Park ) and West Ruislip - Epping ( via Woodford ) in regular service . The problem is Hainault to Woodford . You may get a through train , but if you miss a service you will lose 20 minutes waiting for the next one Mill Hill East : This operates a service from Finchley Central . You may get a through train but you might just miss one . Again , 20 minute delay . Kensington Olympia : This operates a limited service from Earl 's Court , but there are NO through trains . ( Cheat : with Kensington Olympia , you may like to get an Overground Train from West Brompton . But you have to either arrive or depart Kensington Olympia by the District line . ) Trains are once every 20 minutes . Connections : You are at Edgware , just having cleared that branch of the Northern Line . Your options are returning back to Zone 1 with the train you were just on , wasting over 30 minutes , or get a bus to Stanmore or run to Canons Park , to pick up the Jubilee Line . You will 40 minutes to get to Zone 1 , but will have cleared an extra 13 stations . This works as Edgware - Stanmore/Canons Park High Barnet - Cockfosters/Oakwood West Ruislip - Ickenham Wimbledon - South Wimbledon Obviously , these work in reverse too . Alternate routes : Coming back from Epping , you have no option but to use the Central Line . Same story with Amersham/Chesham , but with the Metropolitan . So start at Epping and end at Chesham . ( Amersham/Chesham takes 2 hours ! ) Other problems are Heathrow Airport ( Heathrow Express from Paddington ? ) or Richmond ( Just have to come back ) . Running : So many routes it 's hard to list them all . North Ealing - West Acton is the best . Cost : Get a travel card . Only option . Set route ? : No . You will have to change this on the day . ( i.e. There 's a signal failure at Croxley , and the route from Moor Park to Watford is suspended . Your options : 1 ) are to wait at Moor Park , hoping that the service will resume , knowing that every minute you wait exacts a penalty . 2 ) Abort attempt . 3 ) Change route ( go to Uxbridge first ? ) . Go back hoping the station ( s ) are open . At least you will have done extra stations . So changing is the best option . ) Tips Be at Cannon Street before 8pm . Cannon Street closes at 9pm - the train HAS to stop for it to count . So just because you done everything but the District line and are on the last train to Upminster , it wo n't count . ( the last train passes through Cannon Street at around 0047 . ) Cannon Street is also closed on weekends , meaning that you have to do this on a weekday . Once , Steven Karahan ( record holder for only two weeks before being beaten by Geoff Marshall and Neil Blake ) went through Cannon Street at 2056 . Normally the station is open until 2100 . But , due to signal problems earlier that day , Cannon Street closed 5 minutes early , meaning that the time would n't count and he aborted the attempt . So be there early . Do n't get the first train ! I personally recommend start at Epping at around 0545 . This is n't the first train , but it means that you can catch the first Woodford - Hainault service and by 0645 , you have knocked off 1 of the three tricky bits . Epping is also remote and it 's impossible to get to any other railway ( apart from the Epping &amp; Ongar Railay from North Weald to Ongar - just brings you further away ) from Epping , giving most tube challengers no option but to sail back down the Central to at least Leytonstone . Starting there removes that difficulty and the time wo n't start until the doors close at Epping . Amersham and Chesham are annoying . Very . Ever since the Metropolitan Railway opened in the 1860 from Paddington to Farringdon they extended it through Wembley and Harrow . A branch went to Uxbridge , another to Watford , and another to Chesham . There the line went to Amersham ( today 's Metropolitan Line ) . From there the line went through Aylesbury to Quainton Road ( now a museum ) and split into two branches , one to Brill and one to Verney Junction . From there , the Metropolitan railway planned to continue to Oxford ( imagine getting the tube to there ! ) before it was taken over by London Underground . LU had no interest in going to Oxford , so the line past Amersham was scrapped . The whole Metropolitan journey just going Chesham - Chalfont - Amersham - Moor Park - Watford - North Harrow takes over 2 hours ! A massive time sink of 8 stations an hour . At that rate the whole challenge would take 38 hours ( if the trains ran 24 hours ) . Get a good night 's sleep . You will be doing lots of running and spending 18 hours on trains or other public transport - and you thought half an hour to work was bad ! Get the nearest hotel to the start station - get a decent one . Do n't bring luggage unless you want to carry that around the tube - it will slow you down . Get a frien
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
Your options are by air or by bus . A taxi from Nairobi to the border , and a new taxi from the border to Arusha is of course also an option , but it will not come cheap . As mentioned in the answer from @Carl you will have several options for bus companies at around $ 20 . The pick-up for some companies are at the different hotels . The bus will take you to the Arusha bus station . Safety on roads in any country is always a concern . The road between Nairobi and Arusha has been upgraded some years ago . This usually means the average speed goes up . Travelling along roads in African countries is more dangerous than in any European country . Safety in cars and buses are generally lower - lack of safety belts , driver ignorance or lack of skill , bad roads , bad technical standard on cars , high speed driving , securing of cargo , cattle/donkeys along the road etc. . A drive will , for better or worse , of course give you a different feel for the countries you travel in and Kenya/Tanzania are no exceptions . Your cheapest flight option would be with Precision Air . It currently costs around $ 150 . Since it is an international flight it will take you from Nairobi ( NBO ) to Kilimanjaro international Airport ( JRO ) . The Arusha airport is not an international one . You will have to add the bus ticket from JRO to Arusha . It will set you back from around $ 10 . A taxi will cost you around $ 50 . The distance from JRO to Arusha is around 50 kms , so you will still have to spend an hour or so on the road .
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
Get the 4am Southern train service from London Victoria , gets you into Gatwick at 4.46 am There 's also a 4.30 am Gatwick Express that 'll get you in at just gone 5am , but tickets are bit more on that . See <URL> for examples for tomorrow ( well , that URL will always work for the coming Tuesday , but the site has a search ! ) ( There 's also the option to stay in Brighton , and get the <URL> to Gatwick , but you 'll probably find London both easier to get to and cheaper to stay in , even if it lacks a beach ! )
The cheapest ( and simplest ) way would be to use National Express coaches ( i.e. bus ) that goes direct from Heathrow central bus station ( 5 minute walk from terminal 3 ) to Cambridge . Tickets start from about # 15 , depending on the day/time and how long in advance you book . I just checked their website - the first bus in the morning leaves Heathrow at 5 am and the last one at 11:59 pm ( although I would n't recommend this one , as it 's not a direct one and you 'll spend almost two hours in Luton airport when changing to another bus ) . The last direct one leaves at 11:35 pm . Hence at 10 pm you should be fine . The journey takes 2 hours 20 minutes . Check for yourself : <URL> Another option is train , but it 's more expensive and there are no direct trains - and it 's not faster .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
In this case , first , you want a live tube map with Google maps underneath . <URL> ( yes , those are the trains moving on the map ! ) As you can now clearly , see , this gives you a couple of options - the District Line ( Green ) and the Central Line ( Red ) . Upminster ( end of the District line ) is your closest stop there.There is a parking lot right next to the tube station , with a couple of hundred parks . The Google Maps satellite view shows that during the day even , this is n't totally full . Epping ( end of the Central Line ) is your second option . This is just near the junction of the M25 and the M11 . It too , has a big parking area next to the station . The downside here is that on Google Maps , it 's showing as completely full . Of course , you ca n't know for sure what time of day these images were taken . Personally I 'd go for the Epping one if you 're getting in early - the District line is one Londoners will not usually trust for reliability , and if you 're early enough you wo n't have to worry about the car park filling up too much . It 's also conveniently close to your M11 turn-off junction .
As has been pointed out by several people in the comments , your question is similar to the question <URL> , and indeed that question does give some relevant advice - however there is a little bit more to it in this case . Priority Pass currently have 4 lounges available at LHR - A ServisAir lounge in each of terminals 1 and 3 , the No 1 Heathrow lounge in terminal 3 , and the Air Canada Arrivals Lounge in Terminal 3 . The first 3 of these lounges are AIRSIDE , and thus the " shopping " question above will give you your answer - you can not access them from terminal 5 . The last lounge - the Air Canada lounge - is LANDSIDE , and thus presuming you are able to enter the UK ( ie , you have a relevant visa and/or do not require a visa ) then at first it may appear that you could go through immigrations , and then catch the bus to terminal 3 to access this lounge . However , unfortunately , that 's not the case . The Air Canada lounge only allows access for Priority Pass customers who are arriving on a flight that arrives into terminal 3 . As you arrived into terminal 5 you will NOT be allowed access this lounge . So unfortunately , no , you will not be able to access any of the lounges in terminal 1 or 3 .
end question
start question
How busy is the E50/D1 motorway in Czech Republic ?
There are numerous cameras along the D1 motorway , all of which are <URL> . There are indeed roadworks on the approach to Brno , but you should be fine outside the peak hours : Assuming you do n't drive between 07:00 -10:00 or 16:00 -19:00 on weekdays , I 'd take the D1 .
Some thoughts : That 29 miles sounds like it came from someone in PR -- Google maps puts it at <URL> and 60-80 minutes with traffic . Back when I lived there , I 'd have estimated that drive at about 90 minutes without traffic . Do you know what your schedule will be like during the trip ? Unless you know you 're going no further than a few blocks away from the hotel/convention center during the whole trip , you 'll almost always want to rent a car in Southern California . Keep in mind that you ca n't catch taxis on the street , and public transportation is very limited . Are you traveling by yourself , or with others ? If it 's just you , it 's hard to justify paying <URL> ( each way ) versus <URL> ( each way ) . However , the cab fare is the same no matter how many people they let you cram in . I agree with Joel that John Wayne ( SNA ) and Long Beach ( LGB ) are better bets , but it 's worth keeping in mind that the shuttle fare is : $ 16 to/from LAX $ 10 to/from SNA $ 35 to/from LGB Which makes SNA look like the best bet . I have no idea why LGB is that much more when <URL> would be under $ 70 .
Comparing <URL> to the <URL> used by mobile carriers in the US , the only one in common is band 2 . Unfortunately , this frequency band was previously used for 2G service , and has only recently been repurposed as an LTE band , so coverage is currently minimal . You should get <URL> on this band , but do n't count on it anywhere else .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
I have unfortunately no statistics on the Railjets being on time . However , I have an answer to the second part of your question : If that train does n't go [ ... ] will my ticket be valid for the 13:08 -18:19 ? If it is expected that the first train that will leave after the departure time as printed on your ticket , will arrive at least one hour after the arrival time as printed on your ticket , you have the choice between : Full refund for the ticket , under some conditions . Re-routing or continuation of your route to the final destination at the earliest opportunity , plus a compensation of 25 % of the ticket price ( if the delay is more than one hour but less than two hours ) , or a compensation of 50 % of the ticket price ( if the delay is more than two hours ) . Re-routing or continuation of your route at another time at your convenience . In this case , the second option is the most favorable for you of course . If you book your tickets with the ÖBB or with Eurail , these terms apply . Note : This answer simplifies the terms . I highly recommend to read the actual terms , linked below . Source : <URL> , <URL> .
For wait staff at restaurants : from 10 % -20 % , depending on quality of service . For the bell-hops ( the person that takes your bags to your room ) : $ 2 + ( $ 1/bag , with a $ 2 minimum ) . <URL>
I do n't have any references for this ( most rainfall charts do n't go down to the hour of the day ... ) , but yes , based on living in Singapore for years , there is a general pattern to rainfall in that area of the world . It goes like this : Morning : Clear blue skies . Noon : Clouds gathering . Afternoon : Sudden onset of violent lashing rain , often accompanied by thunder , lasting 30 to 60 minutes . Evening : Skies clear up again . So the TL ; DR would be that if you 're going to hitchhike in the rainy season , it would behoove you to get on the road as early as possible and try to finish up before the afternoon . Which is actually good advice when hitchhiking anywhere , lots of long rides in the morning and it gives you some buffer until darkness closes in . Now obviously this is only a rough pattern , and particularly in the rainy season , it 's fairly common to have spells of several days when it rains pretty much non-stop . But if it 's sunny when you wake up , hit the road and make the most of it .
Aha , a site that @Ankur only just showed me earlier this week comes in handy in answering ! The <URL> would appear to answer your question . You have three main choices - O2 , Vodafone and TMobile . It appears ... that O2 might be the best option , as it looks like their acceptable use policy is that once you 've used the small amount of data a day , the speed throttles down . Best to confirm this when you buy , of course . If all you 're using it for is a little geocaching , you may not need much data and this could work ? ( as an aside , why do you need data to geocache ? If you have predownloaded maps ( eg Navdroyd app on Android ) , then all you need is GPS reception , which does n't use data ... ) However , obviously it 'll depend on what else you want it for , for how long , and what speeds , so I suggest having a look at the page and seeing what suits best .
According to <URL> and <URL> , the most closer railroad station is Alpiglen : . According sattelite map , you 'll get beautiful view from there . Not sure where are you getting from to the Eiger , so you can <URL> . If you have more specific information , please provide it . Update : <URL> , route and prices are ( used local time just for example ) : 30.06.11 Stainach-Irdning 09:37 - Bischofshofen 10:48 - from <URL> without VORTEILScard 30.06.11 Bischofshofen 11:08 - Mannheim Hbf 16:56 - from <URL> without VORTEAILScard 30.06.11 Mannheim Hbf 17:36 - Interlaken Ost 21:56 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , but by <URL> - from <URL> 01.07.11 Interlaken Ost 06:04 - Grindelwald 06:38 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , but by <URL> - from <URL> 01.07.11 Grindelwald 07:17 - Alpiglen 07:38 - unknown by oebb.at , unfortunately , and by <URL> there is a bug with no founded station , but I think it is not very expensive Also you can see [ this question ] [ 11 ] to get some more sites to search prices and trains .
No Free Sundays April to September First of all one must know that <URL> . The Louvre website says : Admission on Sunday From October to March : access to the permanent collections is free for all visitors on the first Sunday of each month . From April to September : no free admission on the first Sunday of each month . How to Beat the Crowds The Louvre is always crowded , and you 'll always have to queue at some point . The first Sunday of each month is no exception . Being a free admission day , it is often a day with a high visitor turnout . Having said this , there are strategies you can adopt in order to beat the crowds . Avoid School/Public Holidays The first thing I would do is to pick a Sunday in a month in which there are no school holidays , neither in France nor in neighbouring European countries . If November 1st were to be a Sunday I 'd never go to the Louvre since I 'd expect it to be packed with tourists from all countries celebrating <URL> . Pick an Alternative Entrance Of course one ca n't always choose when the first Sunday of the month will be . The next invaluable piece of advice I can give is to pick an alternative entrance . Everyone queues at the Pyramid , because that , and the Mona Lisa , are what people of when they picture the Louvre . However , there are three other entries available , of which one , Passage Richelieu , is only for visitors who already have a ticket . The other two entries are : entrée du Carousel i.e. the entrance of the Carousel shopping mall at 99 rue de Rivoli . From there you can access the Louvre museum after going through a bag and security check . Porte des Lions , located south-west of the Pyramid , close to where the Tuileries gardens begin . See below for a detailed map ( <URL> ) : <URL> Louvre Map , <URL> , Fair Use The Porte des Lions is fairly off-centred from the main Louvre attractions , and will require you to walk a bit once inside . Personally , beating the crowd is worth the walk . Pick Another Museum Finally , if you do n't want to queue up at the Louvre , I somewhat agree with <URL> . Since most paying-access museums offer free first-Sundays , why not try out one of the other , less known , such museums ? Also , the <URL> are always free , and are likely to have less people visiting them on Sundays .
Besides Viator , <URL> seems to have some tours as well , though again , you are limited by choice and the current ones do n't inspire a lot of confidence . <URL> has some tours listed for Dominican Republic , though I could n't find anything for Santo Domingo specifically . You can hire guides off TourHQ s well . They have a decently strong guide listing . Never used them before so proceed with caution . Based on personal experience traveling around the region ( though I 'm yet to make it to Dominican Republic - been to Guatemala , Haiti , Panama and Honduras ) , your best bet would be to find someone on the ground once you reach your destination . There should be some government approved guides around - head to the local government tourist office . From what friends say , Santo Domingo is pretty well developed and the tourist offices are well staffed . You should n't have any problems finding a local guide . With this , I 'd recommend you go with boots on the ground first .
( I 'm promoting and editing my comment to an answer since we have n't received anything better ) While I was there ( almost a week ) I found only one exchange place in Skopje which did n't list but did buy them when we asked about it ( no selling though ) . The rate was terrible , about 25 % below the official rate ! I was suggested to try the bus station but never tried as I managed to swap some cash with a traveller in my hostel heading the opposite way .
I wish to hear answer from a female person as well -- MikkaRin Here 's the female from India . I have n't yet seen a toilet paper so there is no question of me knowing how to use it . I do n't carry nor I know of anyone carrying a secret towel . Here 's how I do it : 1 . I do n't directly place the shower 's head towards my bottom since the water may splash towards my clothes and my feet , making them wet unnecessarily . 2 . I turn the shower 's head away from my body and collect little water in my palm . 3 . Bring only that water ( collected in my palm ) near my bottom and apply it only where it is needed , carefully . 4 . When I get up , I shake my bottom just to let water drops fall off . 5 . Then I simply put on my underwear and pants and move out . No , the water does not get shown through my clothes ( or anyone else 's ) for the reason being that we mostly wear those cotton underwears which cover all our hip parts . The cotton full cover underwear soaks up the little water remaining on the buts which soon gets forgotten as we move out . India being a conservative and not so rich country , the things like thongs ( which do n't cover the butts ) are worn on special occasions and that too by upper middle class . If you are used to wearing thongs , then may be you 'll have to carry the secret towel etc. .
A car is definitely a must have to visit the Loire valley . You have independence , and you can find some beautiful castles and view the country . But you can go to some castles by train from Tours . Here are some examples : Chenonceaux : you can take the train from tours to Chenonceaux and walk to the castle . It can be beautiful because you have to cross the French garden . Blois : can be reached by <URL> ( = regional train ) Chambord : can be reached from Blois For biking , you could visit <URL> or see <URL> . The map is good but only available in French .
Long story short , mainland China ( PRC ) and Taiwan ( ROC ) do n't recognize each other so they do n't want to stamp each others passports / stick visa in there . The pragmatical workaround in place right now is that both nations issue another document to visitors from the other country ( i.e. like a visa , but on its own piece of paper in my overly simplified words ) . The details are nicely described <URL> and <URL> . The following is a brief and less accurate summary of mine : From Taiwan to mainland this is called Mainland Travel Permit for Taiwan Residents . Taiwanese can apply for the permit in China Travel Service ( CTS ) Limited 's Hong Kong or Macau branches or through travel agencies in Taiwan . From mainland China to Taiwan you need an Exit &amp; Entry Permit for the Taiwan Area of the Republic of China , a document issued by the National Immigration Agency of the Republic of China
There 's a more in-depth article on Wikipedia -- the <URL> . However , the downside for you here is that while English was one of the three main languages until 1853 , there was then a concerted effort afterwards to wipe it out . The closest lexically was Bislama , although the words were different , so that might be an ' easier ' one to learn if you wanted to learn some phrases in a non-European language , however , realistically , French is going to be your best bet here , it would appear . However as you 've no doubt noticed in your travels , even in places where you would n't expect it , people quite often know some English ' unofficially ' , and you may be surprised . It 's also surprisingly easy and fun sometimes to communicate without words ;) Indeed , according to <URL> , if you 're in Noumea , you may in fact be ok : The official language is French , and it is difficult to find English speakers outside of Noumea . In Noumea , French , English , and Japanese are widely spoken at hotels , restaurants , and shops . To enjoy a place like this , you should really endeavor to learn some French .
Although this year ( 2013 ) at the time of writing it appears that Nepal is raining heavily each and every day , virtually all day , my research shows that this is not typical . Typically during the monsoon season , it appears to rain for several hours each afternoon/evening and in fact if trekking is not your goal this seems to have the benefit of reducing dust/pollution in the cities , making the air much clearer . In addition the late monsoon season of August/September hosts most of Nepal 's cultural festivals , so although I have yet to visit , it appears that if culture experience rather than trekking is your goal the late Monsoon season may even be the very best time to visit Nepal . Some good information can be found on wikitravel as mentioned , and here as well : <URL>
A Semi-double bed is around 120 to 140cm ( 47 to 55in ) , depending on the hotel . As for it being suitable for two people , that depends on how close you are : I shared a semi-double bed at Mystays Asakusa-Bashi with a friend . If it had n't been my long time friend , I would have been very uncomfortable as you WILL end up touching/brushing the other person while sleeping , even if you do n't move much . Here 's an image of such a bed in Asakusa-Bashi . The size here is 120cm . <URL> If it 's your significant other , you should be fine .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
I have n't done a Times Square New Year 's Eve in over a decade , but I 'd say if you can manage changing trains at 42nd Street during rush hour , it 's no great challenge . Compared to most American cities ( if not , say , Mumbai ) , New York City is an " unyielding crush of humanity " on any ordinary day . The sidewalks are crowded , the subways are crowded , the stores are crowded . The good news is that on account of this , New Yorkers are quite accustomed to negotiating crowds wherever they go . You find others in the crowd going the same direction as you are and go with that flow rather than trying to move against it on your own ... or you learn to push and be pushed a little . That 's how the stereotypical New Yorker is , to this day , always rushing around town from appointment to appointment -- not working endlessly at the office like a Tokyoite or on the mobile phone stuck in traffic like an Angeleno . New Year 's Eve is the biggest party day , but there are other big parties like St. Patrick 's Day , not to mention dozens of parade days , street festival days , game days , and other excuses to congregate in public areas . Inside Times Square or wherever the main event is , people will be shoulder to shoulder , but in the area beyond only an extreme agoraphobe would be unable to move about . Road travel is tougher , as surrounding streets may be closed during special events and it may be hard to find a taxi , but that 's true of any city . If you find a group of immobile tourists on New Year 's Eve in Manhattan , it 's probably the cold . People seem to underestimate how cold it gets , since the tall buildings both block out the sun and channel stiff winds .
end question
start question
How much is a bus from Buenos Aires to Rio de Janeiro ?
<URL> quotes 1100 pesos ( 127USD ) as the minimum , and links to the bus company website . So I guess it depends on the day of travel / purchase .
There is no clear price information mentioned on <URL> . The easiest thing to do will be to call or email them . Their website provides this information : Baggage storage is exclusively available at the Airport Travel Agency , located on the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . The Airport Travel Agency is open daily from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No reservations are required for baggage storage . All baggage is x-rayed prior to storage . Rates are assessed per each 24 hour period that an article is in storage ( articles in storage for less than 24 hours will be subject to the 24 hour rate ) , and vary according to the size of the object . Please contact the Airport Travel Agency at 650.877.0422 or CF.Airport@gmail.com for additional information . <URL> says that the typical rates vary from $ 15 to $ 35 whereas the pricing on the <URL> is quite ambiguous and seems to not agree with the same . I would assume that your size luggage would cost approximately $ 25 but the best solution is to just ask via email . SFO offers only one staffed location where you can store baggage . Airport Travel Agency , located in the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , is near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . It offers storage for $ 15 to $ 35 per day depending on the size of items you are storing .
If you use the <URL> , then for journeys involving King George Square station the planner will tell you which part of the platform to use , eg 7.10 pm Depart King George Square station , platform 2D That involves having internet access to look up your journey details , which may not be available . If you arrive at the station without having the chance to check online , then there is a big bank of screens above the escalators to each platform . These show the next 5 buses to call at each stop along the platform . Depending on the stop and the time of day , this could be anything between 5 minutes into the future and over an hour , so you may see what you need up there , or you may not . All depends on how soon until your bus . The displays look something like this : Alternately , there is a map of which routes use which stop . Annoyingly , it does n't seem to be available anywhere around the station entrance , nor just after arriving on the platform . I only found it almost at the far end of the platform , where it 's much less use as you 've already walked past most of the stop information boards ! The photo below is a bit blury , but should at least give you an idea of the information poster to look for if you need it . So , short answer - if you have internet and/or your bus leaves in a few minutes , you 're fine . Otherwise , you 'll probably have to walk along the platform checking each stop , unless Translink decide to be helpful and put up some more of the " which stop " posters in useful places ...
You may be able to make a <URL> work for you . <URL> <URL> eg <URL> Eureka ! - There are <URL> allowing 3 or 4 or 5 countries of your pecification . These were not shown in the general menu . <URL> PDF download . Large and impressive . Regional Passes : These are usually 2 country passes allowing N days of travel within an overall period . Adding the extra country may make individual pricing cheaper . Austria-Croatia-Slovenia Austria-Czech Republic Austria-Germany Austria-Hungary Austria-Switzerland Benelux-France Benelux-Germany Croatia-Slovenia-Hungary Czech Republic-Germany Denmark-Germany Denmark-Sweden Finland-Sweden France-Germany France-Italy France-Spain France-Switzerland Germany-Poland Germany-Switzerland Greece-Italy Hungary-Romania Italy-Spain Norway-Sweden Portugal-Spain Scandinavia
You do not need to pass through emigration when leaving the US . Unlike in most countries , US airports do not have dedicated international areas . The airline staff will check your passport and collect any documents you are required to hand in when you leave the country . Thus , this will not affect your connection in MSP . If the itinerary is being offered as a single ticket , the airline clearly believes that most passengers will be able to make that connection . This seems quite feasible if both flights are from the same terminal at MSP ( very probable if it is the same airline ) . You 'll probably be checked into both flights at LAX and only have to get between gates at MSP . This can be accomplished <URL> within the same terminal ( less if you are really in a hurry ! ) . If you need to <URL> ( <URL> ) , this becomes much trickier . You 'll need to take a train ( runs every 10 minutes ) and than you will need to go through security again at the other end . I suspect that you will not need to change terminals . Note however , that if there is any delay in the inbound flight , even if you are able to race to the departure gate , the odds of your checked-in luggage making the transfer is not good . Also , keep in mind that any non-trivial delay will cause you to miss your connection . They will try rerouting you if you miss your connection because of a delay in the first flight . However , there is no way of knowing how long or convoluted that rerouting will be . You may easily lose a whole day . Consider how important not being delayed is to you . If it is critical , this may not be a chance you 're willing to take .
Indian citizens are eligible for single entry <URL> . You should apply for your e-Visa at least 24 hours before your departure .
SNCF <URL> runs <URL> <URL> between Grenoble and Valence ; the trip takes a little over an hour and the trains run approximately hourly . There are also buses , but they go to Valence TGV far outside the city ; you then have to take another bus into the city . Due to the strike , there is <URL> . At the moment few of the trains are announced to be running but there will be substitution buses for some of the services continuing to Valence-Ville after Valence-TGV . So you can probably make your trip ( except if you were going to take one of the evening services ) , but allow for some delay . Grenoble and Valence are in the same région but in different département and have a train connection . In such cases , it 's rare to have non-SNCF buses . I do n't have authoritative knowledge of this region , but the <URL> does n't list any likely-looking bus lines , nor do any of the département-area sites for Isère and Drôme . While it 's possible that a combination of shorter-hop buses could get you from here to there , it 's likely to end up taking all day ( many of these buses may have no midday service , and they often would n't wait for connections ) -- even if a connection exists in theory , there 'd be a risk that you 'd have to hitch-hike some of the way ( which , incidentally , is a valid option if you are n't in a hurry ) . <URL> only mentions the train and the bus via Valence TGV ( granted , I do n't know how good their coverage of regional buses is ) . So take the train or the bustitution .
Cagnes-sur-Mer has a railway station , with frequent trains from Nice ( generally every half hour ) . Trains take about 15 minutes , and you just buy the ticket at the station on departure . Depending on where you are in Nice <URL> might be useful too . The local bus company has its website here : <URL> ( Press the British flag for English ) . Generally speaking : Getting there by public transport is easy and cheap . Doing it as a day trip perfectly feasible . Haut de Cagnes is about 1km from the train station . If you really do n't want to climb , you can walk to the town center ( square Bourdet , also a stop on bus 94 ) and take <URL> uphill .
In most cases you can buy tickets before departure . But there can be problems during russian holidays . At least 4 dayly buses are available from different companies . And only one company offers you online booking : <URL>
There is really no limit set on the amount of cash you can carry into the country . The only difference is whether or not you need to declare it when you cross the border which according to <URL> is 10000 Euro . The only thing is that when you carry amounts of that size or larger Customs and various other agencies start to get curious on where this money came from . Additional Info as per @Annoyed 's comment From the site of the <URL> Export of foreign exchange/currency notes : Indian residents going abroad are allowed to take with them foreign currency upto any amount so long as the same has been purchased from an authorized foreign exchange dealer as per norms . Any person resident out of India is allowed to take out of India unspent foreign currency not exceeding the amount brought by him on his arrival in India provided that in the case of foreign currency notes exceeding US$ 5,000 / - or its equivalent or foreign exchange in the form of currency notes , bank notes or traveller 's cheques exceeding US$ 10,000 / - or its equivalent , the same was declared to the Customs authorities in Currency Declaration Form ( CDF ) at the time of his arrival in India . So long story short . Still no limitation as long as the source can be proven legitimate .
The answer is yes : Take a look at the map on United 's site for <URL> .
It seem that there is but the only way to fly might be a chartered flight . <URL> which supposedly services the airport does n't seem to have any scheduled flights to or from Santiago de Veraguas . The only thing I was able to find are charter planes that are able to go to the airport . Which seems to be confirmed by a <URL> , which states that you can only charter a plane to fly into the Ruben Cantu Airport , the book also gives you some other options of getting to and from Santiago de Veraguas . So your best bet would be to take a bus or rent a car and go to Panama City and then take a flight to Bocas del Toro .
You should expect something between 9 - 15 $ , more than that is suspicious/wrong . I am from Lisbon and live in Sweden now . When Traveling home I take the taxi from the Airport out to Oeiras ( on the suburbs and also a extra taxed ride since it 's outside Lisbon Municipality ) . It costs me between 25-30 $ . The Lisbon airport site you named is not the official one . <URL> is . Check also <URL> about different rates at different days/times , and <URL> unofficial site with some info also . You can also go to the Tourist office inside the Airport and buy a fixed price ride . 19.20 $ was the price I found for weekends .
Mt. Pleasant is a small town of fewer than 9,000 residents in a rural county ; there is no municipal mass transportation available . I do see listings for two or three taxi companies ( A2z and Barnes , and sometimes others ) , so you might call ahead to see if they will have cars waiting for the train . Mt. Pleasant is the nearest Amtrak station to Iowa City , home to the huge University of Iowa , but Iowa City taxis may not be interested ( or licensed ) to give you a ride locally within Henry County .
It turns out one can view their bus ticket on <URL> : Enter the flight confirmation number along with the email used on Wizzair.com to reveal the E-ticket : I think they 're supposed to send out a notification 3 days before the flight takes place , but there 's no need to wait for it . If the ticket does n't show up on P-Airbus . com , it 's possible to receive it by contacting the transfer service support at wizzair@wizztransfer.com .
You 'll want to go to a locutório ( like a small shop ) . It 'll be called that - " Locutório " with a purple sign saying " SUBE " in the window . Where are these shops ? There 's a handy website that <URL> . Then according to a <URL> : You 'll fill out a small application with your name , address , and passport/DNI number and pay the $ 20 ARS . However , your card will not come loaded with funds and the locutório may not charge SUBE cards . So you will have to find a kiosko that does . There are many along Santa Fe that sport the SUBE logo in their windows . These places may or may not be able to charge your card at that time , so again , you 'll just have to ask . When you find a charging station , you can have up to $ 50 ARS put on the card at a time . The clerk will charge your card on a space age sensor machine and hand you a receipt with the proof of funds .
According to the <URL> there is nothing that goes directly to Venezia . There are 2 bus companies that service the Bergamo airport as well <URL> which could get you to Milan or Brescia and then you would have to take the train . The other one <URL> will only get you to Milan and then you can take a train or a bus . But based on what I am reading <URL> it 's not preferred and what you save may not be worth it . But if you still choose to go check out this site : <URL>
Normally you being there in plenty of time should ensure you are the first-came , and excess passengers would be put on after the rest of you . However , this is Greyhound we 're talking about , and to further complicate , this is Thanksgiving , the day of the year rules just do n't apply ;) According to <URL> : As the ticket policy suggests , Greyhound does not assign you a seat when you buy a ticket . If you show up at 8 AM for your 8 AM bus , the bus may be full . If you show up at 7:30 AM and the bus line already has 55 people in it , you may not get to ride that bus . If you 're riding for your first time , you will get a good seat on your bus if you arrive an hour ahead of time , and will probably catch it ( unless you need to check bags ) if you arrive fifteen minutes ahead of time . For the expert , how early you show up can be calculated by four variables : ( 1 ) Are you checking bags ? ( 2 ) Is your bus " originating ? " ( 3 ) Is your departure station popular ? ( 4 ) Is the route popular ? If you 're checking bags , you will have to wait in line . Depending on station , you may have to wait in the general ticketing line . At peak times , there can be 30 people in the general ticketing line -- all of which have urgent needs . You do n't have a choice about waiting , so budget 15-30 minutes . An " originating " bus means that your bus will be empty when boarding begins . If your bus is originating , you can show up later , because more seats will be available . If your departure station is popular ( i.e. a large city ) , more people will be in line , so budget another 15 minutes . If the route is popular ( and most are , especially on the weekends and at night ) , you may wish to budget another 15-30 minutes . Your best situation is an originating bus , leaving from small town X , at 10 AM . Your worst situation is a North Hollywood bus originating in Los Angeles , CA going to San Francisco at 10 PM on a Friday night . So given all that , I 'd try and get there as early as you possibly can . Because after all , this is Thanksgiving , and you 'll already be thankful you have a seat ;)
<URL> runs two direct buses a day . <URL> runs one bus a day . It seems like both leave from the central Ortachala Bus Station . It 's helpful to know Tbilisi ( Gerogria ) = Tiflis ( Gürcistan ) in Turkish for their search fields .
I have not been to Brazil myself yet , but this is on my list , so here is what my research thus far has found . As hippietrail pointed out , the Carnaval in Rio ( and in Sao Paulo ) has grown to be a huge event that requires a purpose-built stadium in each city . These Carnavals are put on as big mega-parades by Samba Schools and are nowadays meant to be seen more than participated in . These cities may also have smaller neighborhood parades called blocos but those are not the main focus for these big-city Carnavals . That being said , there are always ways to participate . There are huge numbers of balls and street parties to explore , and if you really want the full experience you can basically join one of the samba schools in the Rio Sambadrome by <URL> at the typical American price ( $ 500-759 ) , which entitles you to then spend about an hour parading right with a samba school inside the - drome in your costume . The benefit to them is that your costume purchase is enough in Brazilian currency to buy the costumes for the entire school , many of whom could not otherwise afford such extravagance . This strikes me as an ingenious way of creating a win-win situation for everyone . If you 're like me , though , and prefer the classic carnaval da rua - literally , " carnival in the streets " - then you will want to look to the other cities . With the Rio and Sau Paulo celebrations relegated to the - dromos , the city of Salvador in Bahia now has the largest carnaval da rua and the world record for largest street party on the planet . So we 're still talking " huge " and " book well in advance " . If you 're still like me , you 're thinking , " I like that in-the-streets feel , but maybe with less people , yeah ? " Well , you have options . So far , I 've been tipped by friends and Internet to the following suggestions , whose reputed merits I will summarize briefly : Porto Seguro : Similar Bahian style to Salvador , on a smaller scale , with trios electricos ( trucks laden with speakers and musicians ) leading trails of dancers through the streets . Known for its many beaches . Recife and Olinda : In the state of Pernambuco , these cities are supposed to have more of an affinity with the old European-style Carnivals such as the one still held in Venice . Masks abound , and there 's less of a competitive aspect to the dancing/performing groups . Ouro Preto : College town that apparently throws a particularly raucous carnaval da rua . Draws many thousands of Brazilian students from all over the country to festivities put on almost entirely by students . Sounds like the MTV Spring Break of Carnavals , complete with outraged locals trying to find a way to make them go somewhere else . If you 're very young , this may be the one for you . Personally , I 'm leaning toward Olinda or Recife ... their celebrations sound exciting and fun in a very democratic , participatory way . And I like that they are said to have some of the qualities of the old masquerade European Carnivals . Your mileage may vary , but what I have learned so far is that there is definitely a perfect Carnaval for every type of person , somewhere in Brazil . The trick is figuring out which one is for you .
end question
start question
A Sunday in Galway , Ireland . Are many tourist type things closed ?
Fortunately for you , <URL> . As the link indicates , the act is mostly inoperative , and : " ... as a result most shops and businesses may open whenever they please , including on Sundays and public holidays . " Supermarkets and convenience stores are often open longer on Sundays . The only small issue if you want to get started early , is that off-license shops that sell alcohol are not permitted to do so on Sundays until after 12.30 pm .
It could vary based on the attractions policy , there is no set standard for the advertised price . One way to confirm , is on the site for the particular attraction , act like you 're going to buy the ticket online and go all the way to the final stage of checkout . It will display the total , and if tax is going to be added you will see it there . I did this for the 9/11 museum , and the advertised price of 24 $ is inclusive of tax . It was not , however inclusive of the 2 $ service charge , so also watch for those . I would also like to recommend you take a look at the <URL> . All three of the sites you mentioned are included , and it also includes the Empire State Building , the Met , and the Top of the Rock as well as alternatives in case something is closed . They advertise that you save 40 % versus buying the tickets individually , and while I 'm not sure on the number it did save us a good deal when we went . The price for that does include tax already at $ 116 per adult .
<URL> , a visa is indeed required for Kazakhstan . However , only Kazakhstan . It redirects you to an <URL> : So the only weirdness there is that it does depend on which airport you fly into , but assuming you 're using one of the main ones , you should be fine there . For further information , we defer to the <URL> : Here you can find the actual form for <URL> . Note that nowhere on it does it require any other visas . Short version - aside from a visa for Kazakhstan , no further visas are required , UNLESS you 're going to other countries before Kazakhstan , in which case you 'll need visas for those countries , if required .
Apparently there are images of these beaches being polluted with the oil but reports say so far no official closing of the beaches as stated in the other answer of @pnuts <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> and finally there is a video of frustrated citizens trying to clean the beach : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Both of them will be ok . However , on my opinion , I would prefer type C , because it has more flexibility in using . Also type C can be used in a lot of countries . If you travel a lot it 's a big advantage . More information you may find here : <URL>
Most attractions are open on Sundays , but a number are just open for 6 hours , from 11:00 -17:00 or 12:00 -18:00 , so be sure to check each one individually . <URL>
Since you 're only interested in rental cars rather than a car to buy , it makes sense to look at the car rental booking sites . For example , in Tokyo Airports , <URL> : Searching specifically for cars in Hokkaido also <URL> : Also note that your manual license should by default allow you to drive cars with automatic transmission as well .
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
I think you are misreading the picture . There is a grate running across the road itself that cars can cross without problems but hoofed animals ( e.g. sheep ) can not . Next to the road there is a gate that can be opened when driving herds . But this gate is never used to close off the road . Generally , in Iceland , a closed gate means no entry . Unless there is a sign stating otherwise , I would n't presume to go through any closed gates .
Short answer - For any airport with jetways / jetbridge / airbridges , sit as far forward as you can get ! Longer answer - a 777 has 4 doors on each side ( 5 for the 777-300 ) , but in common with almost all planes and airports passengers only ever use the left hand side ones unless something has gone wrong . Those doors are 1L ( at the front ) , 2L ( about row 10-15 , towards the end of business ) , 3L ( just behind the wing ) , and 4L ( at the back ) . ( A 777-300 has 3L just above the wing , 4L a little behind , and 5L at the back ) If there 's only one jetbridge available , it might use 1L , or it might use 2L , depending on the airport , never anything further back . If it 's a dual jetbridge gate , then both 1L and 2L will be used . Typically when using 1L and 2L , boarding is split by class , and disembarking is done with one side of the plane using one door , the other side the other . For that reason , sitting at the front of the left hand side is normally slightly quicker ! The only time the rear door will be used is when steps are used . If steps are used , they 're normally 1L or 2L along with 4L/5L . Steps are only rarely used with a widebody like a 777 , and normally only at smaller airports on ( eg " bucket and spade " airports on mostly tourist routes ) . Otherwise , unless there 's a problem with the gate , at a big airport it 'll be jetbridge at the front .
As far as I can establish from Wiki , there are seven famous stepwells in India : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They look fantastic , I 'll have to get myself to India sometime soon !
It 's the same as the British one <URL> . <URL> was once common and may be occasionally found . The voltage in Ireland is the same as the rest of Europe ( 220 volts ) . To be more specific , From <URL> : The British Standards 1363 plug [ 17 ] is used in the United Kingdom and other countries . Compatible plugs standards are IS 401 and IS 411 ( Ireland ) , MS 589 ( Malaysia ) and SS 145 ( Singapore ) , and SASO 2203 ( Saudi Arabia ) . This is how it looks : Bath and shower rooms From <URL> : In the United Kingdom and Ireland , there is a two-pin socket for use with electric shavers in bath or shower rooms . [ 18 ] It derives from the unearthed version of 5 -- 6 A British plug and it has 0.2 in ( 5.08 mm ) diameter pins 5⁄8 in ( 15.88 mm ) apart . The sockets for this plug are often designed to accept unearthed CEE 7/16 , US or Australian plugs as well . Sockets are often able to supply either 230 V or 115 V . In wet zones , they must contain an isolation transformer compliant with BS 3535 . For more details , check <URL> for a list of the electrical plug types for the whole world .
Spending US dollars outside of a city like Kathmandu or Pokhara will be difficult . And even within those cities , businesses accepting US$ will be limited in numbers ( hotels , plus some restaurants and shops ) . As pretty much all access to Nepal is via flights into Kathmandu , why not exchange US dollars for NP rupees upon arrival ? One would think that a few minutes would be available to exchange money even on the tightest tour schedule ( afterall the guide would want to make sure you have cash to tip the crew ;-)
Roman Roads The road system developed by the Romans during their Empire was indeed impressive . Wherever the Romans went , they paved their way there . After all , what 's the point of an Empire encompassing such a vast area if one can not easily reach everywhere from everywhere ? <URL> : At the peak of Rome 's development , no fewer than 29 great military highways radiated from the capital , and the late Empire 's 113 provinces were interconnected by 372 great roads . The whole comprised more than 400,000 km of roads , of which over 80,500 kilometres ( 50,000 mi ) were stone-paved . In Gaul alone , no less than 21,000 kilometres ( 13,000 mi ) of roadways are said to have been improved , and in Britain at least 4,000 kilometres ( 2,500 mi ) . The courses ( and sometimes the surfaces ) of many Roman roads survived for millennia . Some are overlaid by modern roads . Or , to put it in the words of Dionysius of Halicarnassus , Ant . Rom . 3.67.5 : The extraordinary greatness of the Roman Empire manifests itself above all in three things : the aqueducts , the paved roads , and the construction of the drains . [ Ref1 ] Tracing the Roads According to <URL> , most roads in Europe do indeed lead to Rome . By crunching <URL> data using <URL> , they traced all the roads leading to Rome given some 486,713 starting points . The result is the following cartographic representation of Europe : <URL> Roads to Rome , Moovel Lab , Fair Use But it does n't end here . As it turns out , in the US alone <URL> . Below are the 312,719 US roads which lead to one of these Rome 's : <URL> Roads to Rome [ US ] , Moovel Lab , Fair Use Many Roads Lead to Rome As it turns out , many roads do indeed lead to Rome . <URL> Keep this in mind when you plan your next trip . [ Ref1 ] : Quilici , Lorenzo ( 2008 ) : " Land Transport , Part 1 : Roads and Bridges " , in : Oleson , John Peter ( ed . ) : The Oxford Handbook of Engineering and Technology in the Classical World , Oxford University Press , New York , ISBN 978-0-19-518731-1 , pp. 551 -- 579 ( 552 )
Unterkunft - the most general word that includes everything else ( just like accomodation ) Hotel Gasthof , Gasthaus - translates best as " inn " , may or may not offer rooms as well as food Pension - similar to bed &amp; breakfast , the most common in rurual areas Berghütte , Hütte - shelter for hikers and mountaineers in alpine areas , generally offers only shared rooms Ferienwohnung , Ferienappartment - apartment for short-term rental , will have bathroom and cooking facilities . May be part of a larger complex or the owner 's house . Ferienhaus , Ferienbungalow - same , but implies a separate building Jugendherberge - Youth hostel
According to the <URL> , since your connection is longer than 6 hours , they wo n't even let you hang out airside anyway . If your transit time exceeds six ( 6 ) hours , you will be required to exit Immigration and Customs and enter Fiji Might as well make a virtue of necessity . That website includes timetables for three bus lines that run to towns and resorts . Some of them seem to be as much as 2 hours from the airport , but there are stops closer as well . <URL> is only 9 km from the airport , though it has no beaches .
Probably yes , but ... I put in my visa application today . I ticked the box for multiple-entry 12 month visa . I had a printout for a flight into Guangzhou and out again just under two months later . I also had a printout for one week of accommodation in Guangzhou . In fact I was told I must have these things the first time I went to the Chinese visa office because at that time I only had a printout for the flight in , not for a return flight , and not for accommodation . On my second visit a couple of hours later they told me that these documents are actually only sufficient to apply for a single - or double-entry visa , and not for a multiple entry visa ! It 's very hard to get detailed information on what you must supply to get what kind of visa for China . Hard to get out of the embassy and consulate websites , hard to learn from the people working at the consulates and visa offices , hard to find on the Internet , hard to find out by asking travel agents , and even hard to garner from the crowd of travel experts at travel.stackexchange.com ! To get such a visa you will need to document more of your itinerary by showing proof of flights and accommodations . But I still do not know the details of how many flights and how many accommodation bookings . Maybe you need to provide a full itinerary with everything booked in advance before you even know if your visa will be approved . But maybe you just need to book three flights and two accommodations . For some reason the people working in Chinese consulate visa sections and Chinese visa offices seem to prefer to play their cards close their chests and provide only the bare minimum of information each time you bring in your application forms . Now perhaps travel agencies that book entire tour packages would know all the details and fill out the visa application forms for you . I really do not know what the best approach could be for an independent traveller who wants as much flexibility to travel around China , leaving and re-entering . Update : When I picked up my visa I chatted with the lady in the visa office about how I had wanted a one-year multiple entry visa and she told me that it requies the applicant to show at least three booked flights and accommodations . I did not think to ask her if that meant three return flights or whether three flights either in or out of China would suffice .
Taking Complimentaries Home I would say that it all boils down to how cheap you want to look , in the eyes of the hotel management . If you do n't care , and probably you should n't , then there are some things you can take with you upon check-out . Taking Consumables As a general rule I would say : you can take anything that is single-serving . For the purpose of this answer , the definition of single-serving includes anything that , if opened/used , can not be re-used by the next guest . Hence an incomplete list would include : soap bars , shampoos , sewing kits , shaving sets , shower caps , slippers , shoe buffing kits , chocolates , etc. . Most of these items are often prey of serial collectors , in particular shampoo bottles and slippers . Hotel rooms often also include branded material like pens , pencils , notepads , postcards , and the like . These can be considered as marketing material . Every time you use the hotel 's pen , for example , you will indirectly be advertising the brand . It is probably safe to assume that the hotel management will be OK with you taking such items with you when you leave . The mini-bar is a completely different story . You can safely assume that anything in the mini-bar will be chargeable . Some hotels however offer complimentary water bottles to their guests . When in doubt , ask . Recycling Plastic Toiletry Containers You could also be fighting the recycling crusade , and using your ecological struggle within to justify yourself when taking shampoo bottles . According to <URL> : I was shocked to learn that the vast majority of hotels in the US have no recycling program , meaning that untold millions of these plastic bottles end up in landfills each year . Leave Towels , Linen , and Furniture However , you can not take anything that is not single-serving . This includes towels , bathrobes , coat hangers , sheets , pillow cases , etc. . Towels and linen can be washed and re-used by other guests . Taking them would be considered stealing . You can not of course take anything that is part of the furniture , or the design of the room . <URL>
The best advice you can get is from the guy that work late night in your hotel . Ask for things that he/she does in their free hours . Why late night ? Usually they have some concierge services that work only during the day and try to give you the standard advices . I also got some very good deals asking taxi drivers but the better ones were from bus drivers ! So , the advice is : ask someone local . Try something like : " what would you do if you want to ... "
According to my friend from Fergana The Teas that they used to drink were primarily of 2 varieties : Green : <URL> Black : <URL> ( The One at the top ) The current tastes and varieties may vary and though the ceremonies remain the same . If you are ever in New York City you can visit Rego Park in Queens where there is a lot of people from former Central Asian Republics ( Primarily Uzbekistan ) that can probably give you a better view on the modern varietals of teas being used and there are traditions on brewing tea that vary from family to family and area to area and not just in additives .
end question
start question
How strict is Lufthansa about pet carrier dimensions ?
Not strict at all ! When I showed up to the gate with my dog in her soft-sided carrier , the Lufthansa representative did n't even look at it ; she only asked me how much it weighed . The carrier I used was the " Bergan Comfort Carrier Soft-Sided Pet Carrier " in the " large " size . It worked perfectly , and fit under the seat without any problem . It also fit under the seat on the connecting flights , which used smaller aircraft .
The situation in Indonesia is very similar to Malaysia , and I 'll quote <URL> , with minor tweaks when applicable : While you certainly can get drinks and food , most places that stay open do so a little discreetly , with curtains on the windows etc , and you 'll want to show respect to people who are fasting by not eating , drinking or smoking in public . The flip side of the coin is that once the time for buka puasa ( breaking the fast ) rolls around at sunset , many restaurants will be packed with Muslims , so you may actually want to beat the rush and grab your dinner before 6 ! Out in the nearly 100 % Muslim countryside , though , virtually everything will shut down during the day . The other travel glitch to beware of is that the end of Ramadan ( Eid ul-Fitr , Idulfitri , or Lebaran in Indonesian ) is the local equivalent of Christmas , when everybody takes time off and goes back to their families ( mudik ) . This means most transportation is fully booked for several days and even the traffic jams are legendary . Plan ahead so you can avoid travel at this time . Note that there 's significant regional variation though . As in Malaysia , the Chinese community does not observe Ramadan , so any local Chinatown is a good place to be based . In addition to mainly Hindu Bali , which you already noted , northern Sulawesi around <URL> is largely Christian and so are the Batak areas of northern Sumatra . I 'd aim to be in one of these areas for the Lebaran rush and the following week ; ideally Bali , since it 's also got the most to see and do . If you 're in a backpacker enclave like the <URL> , Ramadan will be more or less invisible .
When I do n't know where to go , I decide based on what kind of holiday I am looking for , listing requirements and then marking them against the country . What questions are relevant to you will depend on the type of holiday you are looking for , but probably the basic things to consider are : weather , season , relaxation , structures/accomodations , activities to do , beaches , sea/coral barrier , food , language . For example , when looking for an exotic place to go on honeymoon , if you are going in the summer then most exotic places have a rainy season , so you may want to consider a place where you will be able to do other things even if there is rain . For examples the <URL> is one of the most gorgeous places to go , but there is nothing apart from sand , sea and relaxation ; therefore if it 's raining you 'll ruin the holiday . In that case a place like <URL> would be a good compromise , as it has good-looking beaches but also plenty of activities . I agree that Google is always a good source of information to shortlist , then forums can help you decide at the end .
I 'll answer my own question after staying in Rio and doing the trekking . This trail is completly safe in all sense . There are police controls in the first part of the trail ( the Pista Cláudio Coutinho ) and in the upper part ( the cable-car station ) . In reality , all the area is a militar settlement , so I doubt that anybody try to attack you there . In the other hand , the trail is not so difficult as the video posted by @DarkLightA shows . Nowadays there are no need of ropes or similar to climb and the main problem is the mud if the previous day has rained ( slipper danger ) . We take more than a hour to arrive to the " top " so consider the wikitravel time estimation as very optimistic . Also the " top " is not the real top . There are 2 cable-car stations , the first one is where you can get by walking this trail , but the second one is the upper one ( but the views are similar ) .
Living ( and traveling ) in the US , I have never in a decade encountered any bed bugs . Maybe if you stay in the hourly-hotels class , I would n't know , but even the cheapest chain hotels can not afford this to happen . I think it 's mostly a hype and not a serious problem at all .
The problem with arranging a group trip involving anyone other than close friends is that you ( as the organiser ) can easily be left out of pocket or worse if things go wrong ; people can and will cancel at the last minute , pull out without telling you , miss their flights , trash their rooms etc. leaving you with the liability . That 's why I 'd recommend using a UK-based ( and ATOL protected ) package tour company to take care of flights , transfers and accommodation , letting you focus on your studies . They 'll be able to take payment directly from the other participants , meaning you 're in no danger of paying for someone else 's holiday . If you start looking now at package trips for winter 2013-14 you 'll be able to get an idea of prices . Start by looking on the websites but do n't be afraid to call up in search of a good deal ; if you can bring 15-30 people along they 'll love to talk to you ! Things to consider are : Transport - the larger tour companies will organise flights and coach transfer to the resort Accommodation - typically twin/double rooms ; you 'll want chalet/hotel style close to the slopes and the bars Food - getting catered accommodation ( breakfast/dinner ) means not having to deal with 30 people 's different requirements Resort - pick somewhere large that can cater for everyone from beginner to expert skiers . Large resorts also tend to have better ( or at least more varied ) apres ski and nightlife . A tour company will also be able to get you good deals on lift pass , equipment hire and lessons without tying everyone into the same option - you 'll have people who want to hire expensive kit , or bring their own . Assuming you 're travelling during the university holidays , you 'll be competing against other students for accommodation , so the earlier you book the better . You 're unlikely to be able to get commitments during the summer vacation , so aim to get the booking confirmed during the first two weeks of September - any later than that and resorts will fill up fast for the Christmas/New Year holiday , although you have a bit more leeway if you 're planning an Easter trip .
No Free Sundays April to September First of all one must know that <URL> . The Louvre website says : Admission on Sunday From October to March : access to the permanent collections is free for all visitors on the first Sunday of each month . From April to September : no free admission on the first Sunday of each month . How to Beat the Crowds The Louvre is always crowded , and you 'll always have to queue at some point . The first Sunday of each month is no exception . Being a free admission day , it is often a day with a high visitor turnout . Having said this , there are strategies you can adopt in order to beat the crowds . Avoid School/Public Holidays The first thing I would do is to pick a Sunday in a month in which there are no school holidays , neither in France nor in neighbouring European countries . If November 1st were to be a Sunday I 'd never go to the Louvre since I 'd expect it to be packed with tourists from all countries celebrating <URL> . Pick an Alternative Entrance Of course one ca n't always choose when the first Sunday of the month will be . The next invaluable piece of advice I can give is to pick an alternative entrance . Everyone queues at the Pyramid , because that , and the Mona Lisa , are what people of when they picture the Louvre . However , there are three other entries available , of which one , Passage Richelieu , is only for visitors who already have a ticket . The other two entries are : entrée du Carousel i.e. the entrance of the Carousel shopping mall at 99 rue de Rivoli . From there you can access the Louvre museum after going through a bag and security check . Porte des Lions , located south-west of the Pyramid , close to where the Tuileries gardens begin . See below for a detailed map ( <URL> ) : <URL> Louvre Map , <URL> , Fair Use The Porte des Lions is fairly off-centred from the main Louvre attractions , and will require you to walk a bit once inside . Personally , beating the crowd is worth the walk . Pick Another Museum Finally , if you do n't want to queue up at the Louvre , I somewhat agree with <URL> . Since most paying-access museums offer free first-Sundays , why not try out one of the other , less known , such museums ? Also , the <URL> are always free , and are likely to have less people visiting them on Sundays .
I ca n't find the reference now , but there was a great story that an organisation was testing security at airports around the world , by taking a suitcase to the airport and leaving it there , timing how long before it got stolen or identified . The exception was Johannesburg , where the car was hijacked enroute , and the suitcase never made it to the airport ;) Anyway ... Apparently in the last year , luggage theft has been reduced by 60 % : <URL> which bodes well . Baggage pilfering is down to 0.6 % of all bags that pass through the airport , which when you think about it is still bad , but if you lock your bags and use the bag wrapping machines available , it 'll deter the opportunistic thief .
Can I submit my brother 's bank statement instead of mine ? Your brother is acting as the sponsor , so yes . But to be clear , both of you must submit bank statements . His are needed to establish financial viability on your behalf ; yours are needed to explain your circumstances in Egypt . will they compare ? They will refer to your earlier application and may compare . This should not be a big problem if everything is transparent . If you have large movements in your bank account , they should be accompanied by an explanation . They get very worried when people contemplate a trip to the UK and their bank statements show recent movements that are irregular . That sort of thing does n't usually happen with genuine visitors and hence they start looking at V 4.2 ( c ) is genuinely seeking entry for a purpose that is permitted by the visitor routes ( these are listed in Appendices 3 , 4 and 5 ) ; What type of visa should I apply for ? You want to change from a visit of four months to a visit of a week . In this case it makes more sense to select the business visitor . Remember that the online form has n't been changed yet so it does n't sync up with the visas available under the new rules . So regardless of what you select , your application will be assessed as a ' Standard Visitor ' governed by <URL> of the rules . and , bearing in mind the reasons given for the recent refusal , what documents I should submit ? The <URL> contains a thorough walk-through of what both you and your brother should submit for evidence . That answers your question . If you are following through with the guidance and find yourself with an evidential shortfall arising from the guidance you can always ask another question . Overall I think this plan is misconceived . Your GMC appointment is in 6 weeks . You have not yet studied the rules or the guidance and have not yet begun to assemble your evidence ; it 's further compounded by the logistics of having your brother send you his evidence from the UK so that his stuff will be fresh at application time . Surely it will take him some time to gather his documents , authenticate them and post them to you . Plus you need to get translations for your stuff . Plus you have a refusal to explain along with a compelling change of circumstances to compose and submit . You may wish to ask your brother to instruct a <URL> to minimally provide you with a consultation and doc check .
I lived in London for four years . Perhaps I just did n't appreciate it , but I ca n't say I really was that aware of the class system on a day-to-day basis . Sure , you were aware that in Peckham in South London there tended to be a lower socio-economic ' category ' of people than say , Kensington . And yes in Mayfair there were the private members ' clubs and the like . And certainly the race day events tended to attract certain people . However , I , and others like myself who were there for a few years ( from NZ , Aus , South Africa , Canada and more ) did n't see it as a limiting factor . If we wanted to go to the races , we would , and just dress up for the occasion . Bond Street is just a place to shop , the prices are higher , is all . Nothing stopping you strolling along and having a look . It 's funny , every so often a comment would crop up about it . Someone at work would make a comment about not taking the bus because they were n't poor enough to need it ( or the tube ) . Yet , the current Mayor of London bikes to work , and the previous Mayor used to take the tube ( still does , last I checked ) . And most of us Kiwis or Aussies etc , whether from rich or poor backgrounds - we 'll take buses , tubes without hesitation - they 're quicker , convenient , and driving in London is awful . ' Class ' certainly did n't stop me getting into the Buckingham Palace garden tea party :) In general , the UK has become ( well , London , but other cities more and more as well ) so cosmopolitan and multicultural that in some facets of society , the class system has all but melted away . That 's not to say that some people do n't still hold it true and fast and insist on it and campaign against it when a fast food restaurant wants to open in Highbury ( it 'll lower their class somehow ? ) , but on the whole , most people you meet are welcoming no matter your background . As some people have said , in London - nobody 's a foreigner , because everyone 's a foreigner !
It might be possible to use only Euro , but as the others have already pointed out , the conversion rate is not very favourable . In the last year , new ticket vending machines have been installed in Budapest , which accept credit cards , but obviously not Euro banknotes so at least for public transport you will need either HUF or a credit card . So if you do n't want to use HUF , you might use your card ( depending on its conditions ) . Of course , if you want to go to small shops , restaurants etc you will most probably need HUF .
For wait staff at restaurants : from 10 % -20 % , depending on quality of service . For the bell-hops ( the person that takes your bags to your room ) : $ 2 + ( $ 1/bag , with a $ 2 minimum ) . <URL>
There are numerous cameras along the D1 motorway , all of which are <URL> . There are indeed roadworks on the approach to Brno , but you should be fine outside the peak hours : Assuming you do n't drive between 07:00 -10:00 or 16:00 -19:00 on weekdays , I 'd take the D1 .
You can find the schedules on the webpage of <URL> , the company running this train . On such a trip I would not worry that much about timeliness . The train stops plenty of times on the road for sightseeing . If ever it is late there should be room to catch up the delays . This is also stated in the <URL> . As far as safety is concerned , you can be sure that the petty crooks you worry about wo n't be able to get on board . As a regular passenger they wo n't because the price is way too prohibitive for them and I do not know how they would do as stowaways ... Okay , the staff might steal , but that risk also exists in hotels . This risk should be smaller on the train , as they will have much more trouble to hide the stolen goods ... Anyway , for the money it costs , one can assume that the trip is well planned and organized and that you should not care about schedules . Moreover , you can assume that the company will do an awful lot for their customers ' safety .
This might not include private bus operators , but is worth a try : <URL>
If you are staying on the North Island in populated areas ( which you are , mostly ) , you should have no trouble with Vodafone coverage . The coverage gets a bit thin in more remote areas on the South Island , but that 's not a problem for your planned trip .
I did this two and a half years ago , and took a 75L pack and a day pack . My friend also had one , and the six others in our group also had backpacks plus odds and ends . There was no problem . However , the train was also only half full ( October ) . I imagine the rules are there so that in the peak season , if it 's busy they can then start enforcing them . So short answer - it depends on when you go , and what staff you get , and how full the train is :)
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
Assuming you have a debit card on the Cirrus network , you should be able to get Canadian cash very easily . You should know we have two kinds of ATMs - those associated with a bank and the so-called " White label " ones that are typically in convenience stores and hotel lobbies and charge a much higher fee . The machine will tell you the fee as part of the transaction ( and you can cancel without incurring it if you do n't like it ) , but if you seek out a bank-associated one ( on the outside wall of a bank , typically , though there may be bank-associated ATMs at the airport ) you will save on fees . It would help to know a little French - please , thankyou , and numbers for speaking , more than that for reading . You will find that written signs are often in French only ( eg instructions in a parking garage ) which you can probably muddle through with a phrasebook as long as you have the time . Most people speak English , but the signs do n't give you that impression . Service people will typically greet you either with bonjour or hello-bonjour , which can be hard to recognize as a greeting at first . If you do n't have enough French to follow a TV show in it , and you do n't care about Canadian sports and politics , you are not likely to enjoy watching TV in the hotel ( the channels are half-and-half English and French and the hotels seem to carry less US channels than the rest of the country ) , so perhaps bring a book or something else for evening entertainment . Montreal is a great city for walking and a horrible city for driving . Bring a guidebook and go for walks at lunchtime , check out the old city , and try not to sneer at us for considering that to be old . I recommend against having an opinion on The Two Solitudes , Distinct Society , and the like . Eg do n't say " were n't you guys going to separate or something ? " with people you 've only just met . And bring your appetite ! The food in Montreal is amazing . You should eat smoked meat and bagels , and poutine , because they 're iconic , but you will also find wonderful fine dining , locavore , slow food , and more .
Lots of reasons ! Most of which boil down to prioritizing time and convenience over cost . You need to fly to a city with no direct service . Most LCCs only sell " point to point " and will not cover missed connections , while full-service carriers do . You have an unpredictable schedule and need the ability to change your flights easily . LCCs tend to fly less frequently and charge large arbitrary fees for changes , while full-service carriers operate high frequencies on their core routes and offer " flex " fares that have a high up-front cost , but allow unlimited free changes afterwards . The low-cost carrier flies to some ridiculous airport in the middle of nowhere ( eg . " Frankfurt " - Hahn , 125 km away ) , while the full-service carrier flies directly to the main airport . It 's a long flight and you 're not willing to suffer for hours in a cramped seat . ( Personally , I 'll fly in a sardine can for up to four hours , but beyond that I 'll at least fork out for a better seat . ) It 's business travel and somebody else is paying . You want to collect frequent flyer points . ( See also # 5 . ) You 're already an elite frequent flyer and want to use your perks ( lounge access , priority boarding , etc. )
end question
start question
Is there a ranking of US national parks based on their Google Review rating ?
I just went through and looked up all the ratings . Below is the list of National Parks , sorted by rating and then by number of reviews as of September 1 , 2016 . * Glacier and Denali National Parks both stated 3.8 with no review count on the Google homepage , but 3.7 and review count when looking on Google Maps . I do not know why there is a discrepancy , but all other ratings are from the Google homepage .
As you 've probably already discovered , the normal place to visit the Grand Canyon when coming from Las Vegas is the " South Rim " , which is about 4 1/2 hours drive ( each way ! ) from Vegas . Although the Grand Canyon ( and the Grand Canyon National Park ) does extend almost 100 miles further west of the " South Rim " , there are no suitable roads that allow access to the canyon within that area . There are a few roads that will get you within walking distance of the Canyon , such as the Hualapai Hilltop Highway , as long as your idea of " walking distance " is 10 + miles each way :) If your time is limited to 3 hours your only option is to take one of the many helicopter tours that leave from Las Vegas , although obviously that 'll cost a lot more than driving . There are also several bus trips , but they will obviously take longer than driving yourself .
If you have a specific flight in mind , with the flight number , you can use <URL> , which has pretty good global coverage for most airlines . The duration is shown on the right : actual duration for completed flights and scheduled duration for upcoming/in progress ones .
Yes , there 's an app exactly for what you 're looking for , and it 's called <URL> . You can choose to share your location , set a timer on how long that location will be shared , and send the details ( it 's just a link ) to any of your contacts via text message , Twitter , email , a bunch of other messaging apps etc. . What I like about this is that you can limit how long your location is shared and ( if you specify a destination ) Glympse estimates your time of arrival based on current speed and lets your friends know when to expect you . Available on <URL> . Set a timer on how long to share and whom to send to Main screen where details are shown
Yes ! Google maps recently added the possibility of doing exactly this ! I noticed it for the first time today . When you query the route for a specific destination a new option shows up above the possible routes which allows you to choose to depart at a particular time or arrive at a particular time . In the later case it suggests the time that you should leave . The length of the drive is given as a range of times which can , admittedly , be pretty broad . I have <URL> , but it has not received an answer as of yet .
Windows 10 has added an update in the latest version allowing users to see where the photo came from . In the top-left corner of each lock screen there is now a short description of the location . Clicking the description opens a Bing search with the location 's name .
For starters your friend does not get a VOA ( Visa on Arrival ) , rather he enters under the Visa Waiver program as a Canadian citizen . Which , as you likely know , gives him a 30 day entry stamp each time he comes . His criminal record in Canada is not available to immigration officials in Thailand , unless they have requested it from the Canadian government , which is highly unlikely since he has never been in Thailand before . If he applies for a 60 day Tourist Visa in advance , then the Thailand Embassy in Canada may request and consider his criminal record . The same would apply to any other country which requires him to apply in advance for a tourist visa . For VOAs in neighboring countries ( Cambodia , Laos ) , the visa is issued based supplied information on the application form and any data in that country 's immigration system from previous visits . The immigration officials do not have access to nor the time to comb through other country 's criminal records .
There is such a scheme . However , it does n't yet cover the city centre , which is why you ca n't ( yet ) find any docking stations in the main tourist areas The scheme is called <URL> , and is run in conjunction with the county council . Currently , all the docking stations are " up the hill " , in and around Headington . They 're around Oxford Brookes university , the hospitals and the like . A map of the stations can be found on the <URL> There 's currently no announced date for when the scheme may extend down the hill and into the main tourist areas in the city centre .
Not the scale of the Badlands , only a small museum , there is <URL> Museum in the South-West of France , somewhere between Carcassonne and Perpignan in a small village named Espéraza . Near that place there is another museum dedicated to the <URL> . This region on the foothills of the Pyrénées mountains is also full of medieval Cathar castles .
In the end I went to the building outside , and the memorial garden , which was really nice . But from there , the Pentagon is like a giant box - you ca n't see its shape very well . No ID was required , you just walk around . Never managed to get inside , there 's massive security for even walking up to it , and they never replied to me . However , for the best view , go up to Arlington Cemetery ; you get a great view of the Pentagon 's shape from there :)
Route-by-route load factors are proprietary information which airlines guard zealously -- why inform your competitors about where you 're making your money and where there 's slack in the system ? Indeed , in 2004 , now-defunct JetsGo sued WestJet accusing the latter of <URL> , and of using that information to " gain an unfair competitive advantage over Jetsgo and prey upon Jetsgo 's business and operations by targeting both profitable and vulnerable routes , flight times and fares . " The best we can do is make guesses on flight-by-flight load factors based on things like available fares . After all , a flight that has plenty of T fares at 21 days out probably is n't that full . Some airlines , like United , offer an " <URL> " interface where you can see available booking classes . You could alternatively subscribe to a service like <URL> , which has the same information for multiple airlines . I would caution that seat maps are notoriously unreliable guides , as not everyone selects a seat prior to the day of departure . The seat map may be wide open , but that 's because it does n't include the tour group of 24 scheduled to be on that flight . I would add that steady capacity reductions over the last 5-10 years , enabled by airline mergers and forced by high fuel prices , mean that most flights on network carriers will be very full . As recently as 2005 , United would a block middle seat as an unpublished perk for Premier Executives , but I ca n't tell you the last flight I 've been on where the middle seat has been empty , even in Economy Plus .
According to Visa Waiver Program <URL> ( I assume you can join the Visa Waiver Program ) Passport validity The standard requirement for passport validity is 6 months beyond the expected date of departure from the United States . However , the US has signed agreements with a number of countries to waive this requirement . <URL>
With some detective work , it 's possible to work it out . Firstly , <URL> that there 's a visitor center at the Scorpion Ranch , so we can be pretty sure it exists . On Yelp - there 's <URL> . So now we know that exists , and what it looks like . <URL> Then - is there a ranger ... well ... it 's stated that <URL> , and that <URL> . The visitor center itself does n't look like it 's liveable - it 's more of an exhibition center for visitors to view . There 's <URL> . So presumably there 's an abode elsewhere for the ranger .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
The National Express website is presumably the one you mean , where it <URL> . However , if you look further down the page , it says : London ( Shoreditch ) Bethnal Green Rd ( to Stansted Airport : Stop J opp Overground Stn ; or from Stansted : Stop K ) <URL> clearly shows the road running west-east , with the Overground station indicated on the same map . Hope that helps !
The <URL> ( 沖縄クラシックカー協会 ) has a <URL> atop a garage specializing in , you guessed it , classic cars . All visitors welcome . In Ginowan on the main island , not far from the US Army base , so I imagine they 've had the odd long-nose visiting in the past . Open Mon-Sat 8:30 -18:30 , <URL> . The one problem for you is that they appear to specialize in the one thing that 's neither Japanese nor American , namely European cars .
I think your friends are rather misinformed . I am unaware of parks closing at any point during the year apart from the occasional holiday or similar occurrence . For example , the Oka national park is open all year round as can be seen here : Parc national d'Oka is open year-round from 8 a.m. until sunset . <URL> Basically , visit the information page of the parks you want to visit beforehand to confirm that it will indeed be open ( they sometimes close for special occasions , but these are rare ) and you will be fine . There is no reason for the national parks to be closed during the color changes . Do keep in mind that , as Michael Seifert mentioned , the colors do not always coincide with the Indian summer . As for where you can visit , I recommend you visit <URL> , but also <URL> and <URL> . The first is not a national park , but both are nearby Montreal ( about 30 minutes by car ) and feature some of the most beautiful scenery in the area . Personally , I prefer Mont-Saint-Hilaire as it is taller and features more rugged terrain , but Mont-Saint-Bruno is perfect for a relaxed hike . Hope you have a beautiful trip !
There is catering on some local Intercity trains as well . It used to be served using small trolleys , but a few years ago they switched to backpacks and added more brands like Starbucks . The NS is not providing structured information about where they are . " On Intercity 's throughout the Netherlands and on the NS Hispeed train ... " <URL> ( Dutch ) However , you 'll have most change to find them on the longer IC tracks , e.g. : Utrecht < > Zwolle Zwolle < > Almere Utrecht < > Den Bosch Utrecht < > Deventer Zwolle < > Groningen There is some info <URL> , but I 'm not sure how acurate it is .
Other answers have given some lists , and talked about the definitional problems , but they do n't seem to have anything like an ontology . <URL> is a large database of geographic names with relations between them . It 's not always easy to get all the data from the website ... you might need to download the database and write your own programs to access it . For example searching for " Hispaniola " finds the island and shows that it 's shared between Haiti and DR , but I ca n't see how to find the link in the other direction ( i.e. , DR is situated on Hispaniola ) .
It does not appear that any US passenger airlines currently operate flights within the EU . I assumed that if any such flight existed , it would be with one of the big four legacy airlines ( AA , UA , US , DL ) and at least one end would be at a major hub . I checked the Wikipedia pages for LHR , CDG , FRA and AMS , and none of them show flights on those carriers to other EU airports . However , based on those same Wikipedia pages , it does appear that the US cargo airlines FedEx Express and UPS Airlines operate many flights within the EU .
end question
start question
What time is the daily train from Balykchy on Lake Issyk-Kul to Bishkek ?
<URL> ( Saturday , 16 July 2011 ) From June , 17 to July 17 : On Friday , Saturday and Sunday From July , 18 to August , 31 : everyday From Bishkek : 06.25 , From Balykchy : 16.47 . Tickets are : adults - 69 soms , children - 35 soms . Support phones : 0312 418 107 , 0312 664 808 . See also : <URL> ( Whole site in Russian )
Long-distance buses connect Puno to La Paz , some of them are really comfortable ( buses from Peru are generally better than Bolivian ones ) . There are two things you ca n't miss when connecting those cities , so I 'd recommend you make at least one stop in the middle . There are plenty of connecting buses , so it should n't be a problem . Copacabana is one of the main Bolivian towns on the shore of Lake Titicaca . The main square and the Church are beautiful , and the town has a nice range of hotels and restaurants ( try the fish soup and the fried fish , both usually made with fish from Lake Titicaca ) . If you can get there in the afternoon , you can climb to El Calvario ( a small hill very close to the city center ) to see the sunset over the lake from there . It 's an unbelievable view . The second thing you have to see is Tiwanaku , a pre-columbian archaological site and one of the most important precursor to the Inca Empire . It was the ritual and administrative capital of a major state power for approximately five hundred years . It 's only 72 km from La Paz , and there are tours and buses that take you from La Paz to Tiwanaku and back during the day . Also , if you enjoy archaeology , during the summer you can probably see people excavating in the area .
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
No . <URL> with an overview of the situation in each country . <URL> ( though it does look somewhat incomplete , at least for South America ) . Overall , each country has , or does n't have , its own network . There is currently no railway crossing any border anywhere between Mexico and Columbia , at least . According to <URL> , in South America , the only international connections are between Bolivia , Argentina and Brazil ( neither of the two links between Bolivia and the Chilean coast , to <URL> or <URL> , carry passengers , and the Arica line is currently closed ) . If you want to go from Mexico to Panama , railways wo n't help you much . Guatemala has none . <URL> has only a few commuter trains that would save you at most a few miles . <URL> has a few goods trains and commuter trains but there too I do n't think any are helpful to cross the country . Nicaragua is another trainless gap . <URL> currently only has a commuter line around San José . In <URL> the only railway is the one that runs parallel to the Canal . From Colombia to the South , you 'll need to go via Peru or Venezuela . In <URL> , the existing tracks would n't help you much , and anyway the only passenger train is in the Bogotá region . <URL> has a few trains but there are still large gaps if you want to reach Brazil , and then the only trains in the north of Brazil are on the coast . In <URL> , finally , there are trains that will take you part of the way between Ecuador and Bolivia , but with several large gaps . You can go from [ Cusco to Puno ] ( <URL> to Puno ) on the shore of Lake Titicaca , then a ferry to Guaqui in Bolivia ( if it 's currently running -- I ca n't find reliable information ) and there a train to La Paz . <URL> has several passenger networks , but here too there are gaps between these networks , and there are no tracks connecting the eastern and western network . The western network runs to <URL> on the Argentinean border . The <URL> no longer runs to La Quiaca , so you 'll need a combination of buses and optionally a tourist line , the <URL> , in Salta , to reach the main network at Tucuman .
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
As far as I understand , the rule that the <URL> is unrelated to the visa requirement . The ESTA itself is <URL> , or up to 2 years if that comes up first . The passport , whether it 's associated with a visa or with an ESTA , <URL> it is issued by one of the <URL> . Almost all ESTA countries are exempt . Check with <URL> to make sure .
In practice , here is what you can do : Contact a consulate from your own country to get some travel document ( probably an emergency passport ) . Being in a foreign country without one is a perfectly valid reason for that ( even within Schengen ) . It will probably cost you some money and a bit of effort but it has worked for me before . Try your luck with the airline . Some of them like Ryanair are notorious for being picky about that but on some intra-Schengen flights you do n't have to show any ID . Even when an ID is in principle required and driver 's licenses are explicitly excluded , it 's possible to get lucky . This also worked for me before ( see below ) . Cancel your flight and travel back by train . There could still be a border check but it 's unlikely . Worse case scenario : You do get checked and the police/customs keep you for some time . You would still be better off than at the airport because you would already be in your country of residence and they should have means to verify your story . I have done that too , did see some border police officers but I was lucky enough not to be asked anything so I do n't know exactly what they would have done . On one occasion , I have been allowed to fly back home without passport/national ID but only a driver 's license and a few other things like an health insurance card . On their own , these documents prove nothing but they were helpful to convince the gate personnel that I was a resident of the destination country . They were very understanding and let me board the flight , stressing that they only did it because it was a Schengen flight . In summary : I would definitely contact the nearest consulate as soon as possible and consider changing plans but if that 's not possible , do try to board your return flight . Be upfront and honest , you could get lucky .
Short Answer Yes ! Typically you will find a ticket conductor on-board who will check tickets in the start . Try to contact him beforehand in order to ensure risk free travel . The ticket conductor can help you purchase a ticket on-board the train . The ticket will be a little bit more expensive , but it is certainly possible . This is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , If you 're really in a hurry , you can buy your ticket on Deutsche Bahn 's trains . These tickets cost slightly more than conventional tickets bought before departure , but you can pay either in cash or by credit card . Certain special offers are not available on trains . NB : if buying a ticket worth over EUR 50 , you are required to present either your passport , national ID , or your BahnCard . One final tip : if travelling by local train or suburban rail services ( S-Bahn ) , you need to buy your ticket before boarding your train . As Deutsche Bahn mentions , make sure the train you are trying to board is not a local train ( you will have to pay a penalty fare if you are found in these without a ticket , costing double the ticket price or at least 40 EUR ) . The local trains include Interregio-Express , Regional-Express , Regionalbahn , S-Bahn . For the IC , ICE , ICN this would be completely valid and applicable and is a great lifesaver ! Trains with Reservations Some trains mandate reservations , such as the ICE-Sprinter or the <URL> . You must ask the ticket conductor for permission and ensure that there are empty seats on the train before getting comfortable in the train . Typically it 's easy to check if a seat has been reserved for someone . The reservation detail is shown by a display on top of the seat . All trains however do not offer this feature . This means that you can not go and grab a seat and wait for the train to start moving before you purchase the ticket from the ticket conductor . If empty seats are available on such a train and you are able to purchase a ticket ( along with a reservation ) , the ticket conductor will allow you to travel on the train . If you are found on a train which has mandatory reservation and has no empty seats , you will be asked to de-board on the next station . An ICE-Sprinter ( or CNL ) is never absolutely necessary in order to reach from Point A to Point B , but just in case you do take one of these trains , you want to avoid unnecessary problems . DB is not the only operator in Germany You must also take note that a significant portion of stock operated in Germany is not <URL> by Deutsche Bahn ( information provided by @Tor - EinarJarnbjo ) . Deutsche Bahn <URL> about 34,000 km of the 41,000 km of railway track in Germany , but many other private companies run their stock on this network as well . Alas , Deutsche Bahn does not operate most of the regional trains anymore in Germany , but most of the operators apply the same DB rules ( and in addition the regional " Verkehrsverbund " rules ) . There are <URL> ( in near future only four ) non-DB long distance services in Germany not operated by DB , but none of them stops at any airport . ( information provided by @neo )
There 's really only one choice : the Karakorum Highway . Regular buses travel between last Pakistani town on the highway , Sust , and Kashgar . The only caveat is that the highway is subject to closure during the cold season , so it is best to arrange for travel before November . Sust is not a particularly nice place , so if possible try and get tickets before showing up there . If you have to wait a few days before the bus goes , however , just head back down the highway to Passu or Karimabad , which are very nice . Getting to Sust is easy since the Karakorum plunges down through the mountains to the Punjab , where Rawalpindi and Islamabad are located , so you can start your journey from there by tavelling to Gilgit , which is the largest town in the Northern Areas and a transportation hub . If you are in the Hunza , you 'll also want to make for Gilgit , unless you can find transportation directly to Karimabad . Wherever you find yourself on the highway , there are lots of buses ( further south ) and minibuses ( further north ) travelling in both directions . Pre-earthquake , it was possible ( if technically forbidden ) to enter Azad Kashmir and visit Muzaffarabad , but this is strictly optional . A note about the bus between Sust and Kashgar : it 's a two-day ride and you 'll be put in a hotel ( likely unheated ) for a night in Tashkurgan after passing through Chinese customs . The hotel price should be included in the bus ticket , but you might want to double check that . There 's also a " park fee " you have to pay to travel through the last bit of Pakistan . It 's very modest .
I used TomTom Route planner to check this out . And it confirms that <URL> , so I 'd suspect it 's totally fine to travel on .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
With regular NS trains ( intercity 's , sprinter 's and stoptrains ) booking in advance does not give you any discount . If you would travel with a NS HiSpeed train this could be the case , but there 's no direct HiSpeed connection between Eindhoven and Amsterdam , so it 's irrelevant to your journey . There 's a direct train between Eindhoven and Amsterdam Central Station which would cost you $ 17.90 one way . If you buy the ticket at the counter , instead of at the machine , you 'll have to pay an additional $ 0.5 . If you 're really tight on money you could look for someone who looks like a student and ask politely if you can travel " together " . 90 % off all students has a card which gives them and 3 fellow travellers a 40 % reduction on any train journey . Fellow travellers can make use of this system after 09:00 on weekdays , the whole day during weekends and also the whole day during the months July and August . When I was a student I 've had this question asked several times . When a conductor asked the other person why he had a ticket with 40 % discount , I would just say that we travelled together , making the discounted ticket valid .
Actually it 's not a tax , it 's a regular service fee . The information you are requesting can be found on the company website ( in Spanish ) : <URL> The service charge is 3 CUC ( + - 3 USD ) per day The minimal duration of a contract is 3 days You need to pay all the daily fees in advance for the period you will be using the line . Phone calls are paid independently You also need to add funds to your account for a minimum of 10 CUC ( + - 10 USD ) No internet service ( there is data roaming if you bring a phone from another country , but this is VERY expensive ) Additionally , there are wifi hotspots in most hotels and <URL> , there is an access fee of 2 CUC per hour that should be paid in advance .
No . To go between France and the UK by train , you need to cross the <URL> . Only three types of trains cross the Channel tunnel : Eurostar high-speed trains carrying passengers <URL> carrying vehicles Freight trains The Tunnel will soon open to competition , but the other competitors are likely to be high-speed trains heading to other locations , with similar prices . I think the cheapest way of crossing the tunnel is <URL> , if you have one . It may not be as cheap if you need to rent a bicycle or to buy one in Lille and sell it off in London or if you factor in the expenses along the way . If you book a little in advance , a bus is likely to be cheaper overall . At least <URL> and <URL> . The journey time is about 6 hours , as opposed to 1 1/2 hours by train . You can also investigate ferry crossings . Since the train is faster and more comfortable , ferries can but compete on price .
I would say it is likely possible but it is fairly short . As you say you will need to leave the secure area of the airport , collect your luggage and go through luggage drop off , passport control and security . Waiting for your luggage should not take too much time , but 10 minutes is the least to expect . Most of the time non of the lines on the way in will be long , but three times 10 minutes will eat up most of your time . And it is not unlikely there are more delays when things go wrong . Add the walking times , and you are almost out of time without any delays . EasyJet can be late , they do not promise to get you there on the minute , just to get you there . With the later flight out of Schiphol , a delay of a few hours will not be a problem , but with the early flight a 30 minute delay can be too much . I would go for the later flight , 6 hours in Schiphol is not too bad . If it is more than 6 hours you might consider going out of the airport if your incomming flight is on time . I guess KLM city hopper will not allow you to change to a later flight without paying costs if the EasyJet flight is late . If the tickets are cheap you could buy a ticket for both the early and a later flight .
<URL> says that tickets can be booked on the online website of CFR , the Romanian Railway company . <URL> . Quoting from The Man : How to book trains within Romania [ ... ] You can book Romanian domestic train tickets online at www.cfrcalatori.ro , the Romanian Railways ( CFR ) website , including domestic sleeper trains . It will only book the compulsory-reservation mainline trains , not local services , but it 's easy enough to use and should have no problem with non-Romanian credit cards .
<URL> has the experimental Maglev train . For fairly obvious reasons , they generally do n't have passengers - although there 's a practical section for it . Currently it 's about 18.4 km long and will become part of the Chūō Shinkansen connecting Tokyo , Nagoya , and Osaka - but at present it 's being extended to 42.8 km to be finished by 2013/2014 , at which point the 9 trillion Yen ( !!!! ) project to build the new fast Shinkansen will kick off ( it got approved earlier this year ) . Citizens of Yamanashi Prefecture and government officials in the area are eligible for free rides , and over 200,000 people have taken part thus far . <URL> has a population of around 860,000 - so that 's quite an impressive number of the city . HOWEVER , for paying customers ( unless you 're willing to settle in Yamanashi for a while and become a resident ! ) rides wo n't restart on the test track until they near completion of this current upgrade - likely on weekends and during the summer holiday time in 2013 or later ( if it runs over schedule ) , according to <URL> . So short answer , unless you move there or join the government , you 're going to have to wait a couple of years . And now you 've got me considering a trip to Japan in 2013 ;)
end question
start question
What does a technical stop mean in air travel ?
Usually it 's a refuelling stop , and you just sit on the plane . You do n't go into the terminal , the plane is n't cleaned , and you 're soon on your way again . As an added bonus , the airline is n't charged for using the terminal , so the tickets are sometimes cheaper as a result . Edit After some reading of forums , the whole leaving the plane thing is possible depending on airline or terminal . In addition , another type of technical stop is where for example you have a fuel leak or engine failure and have to land to get it sorted . However these are usually ( obviously ) unplanned , so the fact it 's on your itinerary means it 's likely the former ( fuel stop ) .
There will be absolutely no change for you . No change in visa requirements . No change in anything . Firstly , post-referendum the UK government need to work out terms of the exit . Based on prior examples , this could take forever ! Then , <URL> . The Treaties shall cease to apply to the State in question from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement or , failing that , two years after the notification referred to in paragraph 2 , unless the European Council , in agreement with the Member State concerned , unanimously decides to extend this period . O.m. Is slightly misguided - there is no way to immediately do this .
The rule of thumb here is whether the traveler is able to convince the Immigration officer that she is definitely planning to leave the country within the required term . A return ticket may be a factor , but it is neither a guarantee to entry nor it is required . As a citizen of Ukraine , once I 've traveled to the States holding a B-1 visa , and my return ticket had an open return date . So formally , I did not have ticket to a specific date . However , traveling for business purposes often has a good , documented , time-specific reason . In my case , it was my participation in an expo , and , obviously , an expo ends at a certain date . In my case , the officer looked at the expo invitation ( two weeks or so since the date of entry ) and stamped me 3 months which I have used shamelessly . Also , remember that the visa does not guarantee the entry to the country . Everything is up to the immigration officer . Let me put it even in a less neutral way : her entry may depend on a bad mood of a particular Immigration officer . So , do n't set yourself up into a potential trouble . So , your mother-in-law may be asked various questions so that the officer were sure she 's not a potential offender of immigration rules . What you may do is : Try purchasing an open-date return ticket . This alone will simplify things alot ( however , it might be more expensive than a fixed-date one ) . Prepare your answers in advance . Remember the factors that may help your argument : Is it her first travel to U.S. ? -- the more times she has been there , the fewer questions she will be asked ; Did she have prior issues in U.S. , even driving tickets ? -- counter-intuitively , this may count ; She 's probably going to a certain event , does n't she ? Does she have an invitation letter from the company who invites her ? -- this may help , provided that the letter states some required time-frame for her stay in the country ; It is also important to show how tightly she 's linked to her ( Ukrainian ! ) employer , family , and so on ;
The border guy sitting in a booth with a long line of grumpy travelers leading up to him ? Almost certainly not , and if he had access , he would n't have time to read it while you 're there . After all , the very point of requiring a visa is that your documentation can then be understood and judged without the here-and-now time pressure of a border crossing and a line that has to move . If you 're taken aside for supplementary questioning instead of being let in immediately ? Still probably not , in most of the Schengen countries , especially if you 're entering through the external border of a different member state than the one that handled your application . However , that does n't mean that you can just lie about your basis for getting the visa . Even if they have no way to verify the application immediately and you 're let in at first , if they get suspicious enough to start grilling you about what was in your application , they might just take a note of your claims and check them afterwards , and if you 're found to have lied to border guards you can look forward to an entry ban -- or ( in principle ) even to a flag on your passport number and criminal consequences when you try to leave . You 're not required to follow the itinerary you submitted with your visa application in every littlest detail . You are required to answer truthfully when the border guards asks you what your current , actual plans are . If you 're asked specifically about the application ( which is probably rare , but it could happen ) , answer truthfully about that and explain any changes of plans you 've made since then . If your plans have changed so much that you should have applied to a different consulate if you were to make a fresh application based on your current plans , it might be a good idea to volunteer information about what happened , especially if the border guards seem to be confused by where your visa was issued . Oh , and as Nate Eldredge mentioned in a comment , do n't depend on border guards being able to pull information in your favor from a magic visa computer if you have n't brought the documentation you need with you yourself .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
The best place for these calculations is the " Great Circle Mapper " website . <URL> To find the distance between two or more airports just enter them with dashes between them . eg , JFK-DFW or SFO-IAD-LHR You can do multiple trips at once by separating them with commas . JKF-DFW , SFO-IAD-LHR
Although in everyday usage they are interchangeable , they refer to two entirely different concepts : direct flight denotes any routing between two points with a single flight number , with one or more stops along the way . For example , United 803 flies IAD-BKK via NRT . nonstop flight denotes air travel between two points with no scheduled intermediate stops . For example , United 645 is JFK-SFO with no stops . In the past , a direct flight usually involved a single aircraft making multiple stops , in contrast to a connecting flight , in which you would leave one flight for another on a different aircraft . In the present , however , any such distinction is gone . United 951 ostensibly operates BRU-IAD-ORD , but you will not be on the same aircraft -- there will be a " change of gauge " at IAD just as if it were an ordinary connecting flight . Direct flights are tricky for frequent flyers . For one , most airlines compute your frequent flyer mileage based on distinct flight numbers , not on distinct flight segments . For flying BRU-IAD-ORD , you 'd expect to be awarded 3893 miles for BRU-IAD and another 589 for IAD-ORD for a total of 4482 ; however , if you fly " direct " on UA951 , you will receive only 4160 , as if you had taken the nonstop . Another problem is in clearing upgrades . The BRU-IAD segment may have an upgrade available , whereas the IAD-ORD segment is sold out ; however , you will not be given the upgrade because space must be available on the entire BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary . If you had flown the identical BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary but with two different flight numbers , you would have received the full mileage as well as the transatlantic upgrade . Why do airlines continue to market direct flights ? For the same reason they market codeshares : to make it seem as if they have service where they do not . Because such flights used to be on a single aircraft , the reservations systems weighted them as more preferable : request flights between two cities and they would return nonstops at the top , then direct , then connections . Since travel agents tended to pick flights that appear at the top of results , an airline offering a direct flight would likely get more sales than another which offered the identical itinerary as a connecting flight .
It 's called a " ligne de dissuasion " ( literally " deterrence line " ) . The idea is to indicate that it 's too late to switch from the leftmost lane to the exit . But it 's not strictly forbidden to cross the line , especially in the other direction ( from the rightmost lane to the leftmost lane ) , e.g. to overtake or make some space for someone getting on the motorway . According to <URL> using a straight line for that purpose is deemed " too limiting " ( " trop contraignant " ) and reserved for special situations , when the exit is " particularly difficult " . German motorways have <URL> to convey the same idea . In France , the same markings are also used on country roads , when overtaking is not strictly forbidden but should only be done for particularly slow vehicles . In both cases , it means more-or-less the same thing : Crossing the line is not forbidden but you are encouraged not to do it if you can avoid it .
I can imagine that two things might be denoted by the term immigration area : A place where immigration controls take place . This is more commonly known as passport control , or perhaps immigration control , or an immigration checkpoint . A place where people are considered , for immigration purposes , to be in " international territory . " This is more precisely known as the international area of the airport , or the transit area . ( It is also sometimes called airside , or the sterile area , but this is ambiguous , because it might refer to areas protected by security screening that are domestic territory for immigration purposes . ) Airports handle the second item differently . For example , in most Schengen area airports , you can transfer to another flight within the international transit area without passing through immigration control , provided that you are arriving from a point outside the Schengen area and transferring to a flight to somewhere outside Schengen area . On the contrary , in the United States , all arriving international passengers must pass through the immigration checkpoint before they can reach any connecting flights . In cases like this , the international area of the airport contains only arriving passengers , and comprises the corridors connecting the arrival gates to the immigration checkpoint .
There is no written rule about " siesta " time . Usually the siesta starts after lunch and ends one or two hours later . It is a wrong idea to think that most Spanish have a siesta time , it happened some decades ago , but today is not a generalized practice . Anyway , you have to difference between siesta time and business timetables . Probably Spanish timetables are influenced by siesta tradition , but you have to take into account other elements like the high temperatures we have in summer or the big meal we take around 2 o'clock . Given this , you have to worry from 13:30 to 17:30 . These 4 hours are the most problematic , but I do n't know any petrol station closed on this hours ( in fact most petrol stations are open 24 hours a day ) , restaurants usually close at 4pm except in touristic areas where the restaurants adapt their schedules to the tourists they receive . General shops may be closed on this hours but the malls remain open .
In my eyes 7/7 is shorthand for French which translates to . Meaning the business is open all week . Note that this does not necessarily mean that the business is also open 24h . Indeed in France you often read written on shops that are open every day of the week ( note the little , standing for == ) . For example , take <URL> showing a list of 24h businesses , and look at the description of the 24h pharmacy : Pharmacie ouverte 24h/24 et 7j/7 à Paris
It looks like it is a yearly thing , renewing the old one when the new one is up . In the church I read about it was done as part of the Epiphany Mass. . It is a blessing to the house . 20 and 15 being the year , C ( K ) , M , B being the initials of the traditional names of the wise men , Caspar , Melchior and Balthasar , they can also stand for Christus Mansionem Benedicat , the Latin words meaning , May Christ bless this home . I found that on <URL> which explains more about the custom . And here is <URL> , with an other year . As you can see from the sites I linked to , it is not restricted to Czech republic , one of them clearly about a church in the UK while the other is about seeing the letters and numbers on the walls in Germany . In the comments it is mentioned that it is common in Czech republic and in several German speaking areas , and that it is often done by ( young ) children , as part of the Epiphany traditions . That is the feast celebrating the comming of the three wise men to Jesus soon after birth , the day of the celebration is January 6th ( in the Roman Catholic church at least , and in the churches split off from it . )
The short answer is that Yes , the rules will remain the same as when you booked , regardless of what changes the airlines make after that date . The longer answer is a little more complex . First lets get a few term definitions out of the way . The " fare rules " for a ticket are a combination of two things - the rules that form of a part of the actual fare that you bought ( which normally spell out things like change fees ) , and the " Conditions Of Carriage " ( CoC ) that is the general terms that apply to all fares booked on a particular carrier ( Think of it as the " fine print " of your ticket and you 'll be pretty close to the mark ) . If you Google for the name of your airline and the term " CoC " you should find the relevant details . " Booking " a ticket is when you go in and , well , book the ticket ! However at the time of booking your ticket has n't actually been confirmed . At that stage , even if you 've handed over your hard-earned cash to pay for it , it 's not actually confirmed until it 's " ticketed " . " Ticketing " is what happens when the airline actually writes you a ticket . In years gone by this was the point that they actually handed you a physical ticket . Now days it 's the point where they give you a " ticket number " . At this point your reservation is said to be " ticketed " . Ticketing normally happened within minutes of you booking/paying for the flight , but it can take up to a few days or even weeks , depending on the situation ( especially if there are multiple airlines involved ) . Once your reservation is " ticketed " the actual fare is locked in , so even if the fare goes up the airline ca n't come to you and ask for more money for the flight itself . Whether they can change any fees associated with the fare - including things like baggage fees and change fees - depends what is written in the fare rules and in the CoC . There is an important distinction here between " booked " and " ticketed " - at least in theory the rules can change between these two stages , and it 's the rules that are in place when the ticket is " ticketed " that matters . In practice airlines will generally honor the rules/fares/etc at the time of booking , but there 's no guarantee that they will . Generally any change fees will be specifically written into the fare rules , including a specific amount for the fee . eg , in your example the fare rules themselves will state that the cancellation fee is $ 250 . As these rules are locked in at the time your reservation was ticketed , the airline can not change them after the fact for your booking . Some airlines , especially some low-cost carriers will NOT have the specific change fees within the fare rules , but will instead make reference to standard change fees . In this case it 's a little less clear what they can change as it will depend on the exact wording ( eg , if it says something like " at the time of the change " then it 's obviously different to " at the time the booking was made " ) . At the end of the day a lot of this comes down to the airline you 're flying . If you 're flying with one of the major carriers then their systems should automatically handle the change fees for you , at the correct amount for when your reservation was ticketed . If you 're flying a low-cost carrier , or a smaller regional airline , then you might have some more problems convincing them to charge you the lower amount - regardless of what is actually correct !
A <URL> is a ban of all aircraft taking off or landing at an airport . This could be due to a variety of reasons , but is primarily for safety - weather could be an issue ( e.g. thunderstorms ) , or there could be a security alert on the ground , or concern about something that may be on board a plane . It 's usually issued by the FAA , but could be issued by an individual airport as well . Flights already inbound may be directed to other cities to land there instead .
In at least western Canada the thing to do is tree planting . Disagreeable but always in demand and used as a backup when you ca n't get a real job . There seem to be plenty of websites on the topic : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I bussed in , but was not asked . However from experience , almost any country ' might ' ask you for onward travel , and they seem more likely to ask at airports - as allowing someone into another country without an exit strategy , or allowing you into their country without a way out can lead to someone getting fined ( an airline , for example ) . What I 've seen many people do ( including myself ) is just to buy a cheap bus ticket in advance , out the country . This gives me a valid exit if I choose to use it , and satisfies any questions that are asked .
You 're not specifying where you are going . If known , it would make giving you pointers much easier . Also , two months for helping out as a software engineer is awfully short ; by the time you can start getting something done , it 's time to move on . That said , here are two websites you might want to check out ( spam filter prevents me from posting more ) : OneWorld ( " global justice online " , " where the good guys gang up " , " OneWorld brings the latest jobs and volunteer positions from organisations working to create a better world . " ) Their site has a section titled " Ethical Jobs " with a subsection titled <URL> . idealist.org lets you search for <URL> under " What Are You Looking For ? " . For two more , search for devnetjobs and ( vacatureblad dot org ) .
Usually it 's a refuelling stop , and you just sit on the plane . You do n't go into the terminal , the plane is n't cleaned , and you 're soon on your way again . As an added bonus , the airline is n't charged for using the terminal , so the tickets are sometimes cheaper as a result . Edit After some reading of forums , the whole leaving the plane thing is possible depending on airline or terminal . In addition , another type of technical stop is where for example you have a fuel leak or engine failure and have to land to get it sorted . However these are usually ( obviously ) unplanned , so the fact it 's on your itinerary means it 's likely the former ( fuel stop ) .
No . At an unplanned refuelling stop , the crew will be focused exclusively on landing , getting fuel on board , and taking off again . There will not be disembarkation services , including no jet bridge , no ramp bus , no barriers set up to guide you to immigration , etc. . Unless there is a medical emergency , you 're not getting off the plane .
There are blogs on the subject of what actually happens with the confiscated items : <URL> <URL> and there are a few others . Basically TSA confiscated items that can be resold are being resold through the Surplus program run by the state where the airport is located . So for example in Pennsylvania <URL> administers such a program , so if you want buy something it would either be at the Harrisburg Warehouse or listed on <URL> .
end question
start question
Will my iPhone 5 and iPhone 5S work in New Zealand ?
This is very much related to your phone and to a certain extent your provider . It is especially important for Verizon customers because their network is different to most of the world ( CDMA vs. GSM ) and hence the phones they sold often only worked on their network , unless they were marketed as ' world phones ' . You should also consider the frequencies supported ( Verizon and T-Mobile use different frequency bands to most of the world ) . In this case though , the iPhone 5s is a ' world phone ' . Looking at the specs ( <URL> ) , Model A1533 ( GSM ) : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 25 ) Model A1533 ( CDMA ) : CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 19 , 20 , 25 ) Model A1453 : CDMA EV-DO Rev. A and Rev. B ( 800 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1700/2100 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 25 , 26 ) Model A1457 : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 20 ) Model A1530 : UMTS/HSPA + / DC-HSDPA ( 850 , 900 , 1900 , 2100 MHz ) ; GSM/EDGE ( 850 , 900 , 1800 , 1900 MHz ) ; FDD-LTE ( Bands 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 7 , 8 , 20 ) ; TD-LTE ( Bands 38 , 39 , 40 ) ... you can see that the CDMA models ( you should be able to confirm this in Settings > General > About > Model ) support UMTS/HSPA + ( the 3G technologies in use in NZ ) and GSM/EDGE ( the 2G technologies in use in NZ ) . The frequencies in use in NZ are - 2 Degrees ( <URL> ) - 3G ( UMTS ) - 2100 Mhz ( urban ) and 900 Mhz ( rural ) 2G ( GSM/EDGE ) - 900 Mhz and 1800 Mhz Vodafone ( <URL> ) - 4G ( LTE ) - 1800 Mhz 3G ( UMTS ) - 2100 Mhz ( urban ) and 900 Mhz ( rural ) 2G ( GSM/EDGE ) - 900 Mhz and 1800 Mhz Telecom NZ ( <URL> ) - 4G ( LTE ) - 1800 Mhz 3G ( UMTS/HSPA + ) 2100 Mhz ( urban ) and 850 Mhz ( rural ) The frequencies match up to the ones supported on your iPhone , so therefore you should be fine on any of the mobile networks and you should get at least 3G data performance in urban areas , if not 4G . You might fall back to 2G on some networks outside urban areas . Verizon has also previously stated that they do not carrier-lock the SIM slot on iPhones , so you should be free to use other SIM cards abroad ( see <URL> , but do check with them first though ) . Finally , do consider the T-Mobile global roaming option , however I believe that only allows you to roam for 3 out of the previous 6 months or something like that , to prevent people from signing up and permanently using it abroad . I do n't have any recommendations as to which network you should sign up for , but note that the 2 degrees network is only available within urban areas ; outside urban areas , it falls back on to the Vodafone network and you may lose data access ( although calling and SMS should be fine ) .
It looks like there are quite a few places , but most of them only have websites in French . The magic search term is . For example , Diabolo Funboard ( who did the video I linked to ) have a rental location on Anse Vata Beach ( la plage de l'Anse Vata ) . <URL> which Mark mentioned are in a similar area , and appear to have some quite nice gear from Naish . So , it looks like there are several places there , with a range of kit from beginners to experienced !
The <URL> does n't show them as flying to New Zealand , so that 's out . The " nearest " options for picking up a United plane are Australia or Hawaii . Using the <URL> and the <URL> , you 're out of luck on heading to the states from New Zealand , you just do n't have enough points for even a one-way , by almost an order of magnitude ... Hawaii to the mainland US is 22,500 miles in discounted economy , so if you got yourself to Hawaii somehow , you could carry on to the states , but not be able to get back ! So , that 's out Two flights within the Australia / New Zealand area are 17,500 miles on-way at the discounted level , 35,000 return . Other near-ish options are New Zealand to Hawaii for 35,000 miles discounted one-way , or New Zealand to some of the pacific islands ( Oceania ) for 22,500 discounted one way . Frankly , to do anything interesting , you 're going to have to buy some miles / transfer some miles in from a supported other program ( eg SPG , Amex MR ) . With not too many more miles for you , and hoping for economy availability , you could have a nice trip over the Tasman Sea to anywhere in Australia . With some more miles for both of you , some of the nearby pacific islands are an option . With double the points for your wife , and more than that for you , a trip to Hawaii could be done . With anything where you need to buy miles though , check the cost of " taxes and fees " - award flights are n't free ! Only go for it if the cash ticket cost is less than the cost of taxes and fees , plus the cost of buying the extra miles .
<URL> : I get a new passport , but I have a valid Chinese visa in my old passport . Can I travel with both passports to China without applying for a new visa ? Yes , you may travel with both passports provided that your visa is still valid and the personal details including your name , sex , date of birth and nationality on both passports are exactly the same .
The passes for Vancouver and Victoria are different . I went two weeks ago from Vancouver to Victoria by bus and ferry . On the ferry you can buy in the gift shop a daily pass for buses in Victoria , costs 5 CAD . To add : you can do it in one day .
The usual Aussie website for comparing flight prices is <URL> , but in my experience they do n't list everything . Also they charge a booking fee so use it to find a flight but you might get a better price on the same flight elsewhere once you have the details .
My initial thought was along the lines of ' but Maori are just part of the community ' - but while that 's true , there are still some options that are actually pretty awesome . And to time with the Rugby World Cup , <URL> - maraes being traditional community ancestral house or meeting venue . There are some good options out there , and I 'll list a couple of them now : <URL> - two marae on site , where you get two nights stay ( at least ) , cultural experiences , guided tours of the valley and surrounding forest , and an opportunity to see some of their arts and culture . <URL> - probably touristy , but the contents look like you really get the complete experience . From the initial Hongi ( nose touch ) , you 'll learn some language , go to a great marae , sleep over in a traditional meeting house ( optional , you can stay elsewhere for extra , but why would you ! ) , great Maori food - and importantly , you 'll share in making a Hangi - the traditional earth oven meal ( has to be seen and tasted to appreciate ! ) , learn about the Haka and try some of the traditional arts - weaving , carving , as well as learn about the history and culture . If I were a tourist in NZ , the latter one really would cover everything , although as a warning - like so many things in this vein , it 's probably a little touristy . Of course , the other option is to try couchsurfing and see if you can find a homestay on that ! However it 'd be more likely to be modern rather than traditional culture , of course .
On an aircraft like one you 're on , it 's interesting to realise that the cargo hold is actually pressurised , just like the cabin . ( The floor between the two is not a pressure bulkhead , so needs to be roughly the same or it could collapse from the pressure . However , as you 've observed , the temperature is often cold as while the cabin is warmed , the cargo hold usually is not . From a similar plane ( 767 ) and <URL> : Conditioned air is directed from the cabin , so the air tends to be a little cooler by the time it reaches the cargo areas , which are also less insulated than the cabin . Cargo temperatures vary in our fleet . The Boeing 767 maintains its baggage hold above 7 ˚C , but the bulk area ( where animals are carried ) can be heated above 18 ˚C . Controlled temperature cargo bins are also available when temperature-sensitive goods are being shipped . So your wine is unlikely to freeze if it only gets down to 7 degrees , but it 's worth noting that in some exceptional cases ( close to the outside , no insulation , extreme temperatures outside ) it may cause some freezing . Your best bet is to insulate it with some jackets or similar , like you 've suggested you will do . Odds are , it 'll be fine .
<URL> has some pretty extensive information about power standards around the world . According to this information , the Philippines uses types A , B , and C plugs : However , it operates at 220V , 60Hz . The US uses 120V 60Hz . So while your US plugs ( Type A &amp; B ) will physically fit into the sockets in the Philippines , you need to be sure your devices are electronically compatible with 220V . Most modern electronics ( laptops , for instance ) have auto-sensing power supplies , which accept 110V-240V , and adjust accordingly . Here 's an image of my laptop power supply , with the relevant info circled ( Which reads INPUT : 100-240V ~ 1.5 A 50-60Hz ) : Some older electronics will have a switch you can toggle between 120V and 220V . You 'll need to check your individual devices to be sure . It 's unclear to me from this information if you may find yourself in a situation with only a Type C plug . You may want to get a Type C to Type A adapter such as <URL> just to be safe .
Aside from a few hungry all-night clubbers and the odd loaded sushi fanatic rolling up in a cab , everybody else will be in the same boat as you , so you 're quite likely to get in if you arrive on the first train . Also , while for some reason the auctions get all the press , the main event at Tsukiji is actually eating the world 's best sushi . I 'm pretty sure you wo n't regret if you skip the auction entirely and go eat at Sushidai or Yamato Sushi instead . Turning up early for these is a good idea as well , they 're tiny and the queue to get in can be 1 hr plus if you get there late .
This travelcard is valid for all trams and buses ( including the night buses ) in Budapest and some close suburbs ( including the airport ) , on the HÉV suburban lines within the city limits ( a separate suburban network that 's pretty much like the metro ) , as well as on the BKK ferry . It is n't valid on the main suburban trains ( not operated by BKK ) nor on the funicular . The 5/30 card is basically a booklet of five 24-hour cards ( note that you must not detach them from the booklet : if even one page is torn out , the booklet is invalid ) . The sales desk marks the valid 30-day period ( if you get it from a machine , it should ask you for the starting date ; if you get it from a clerk , they might assume the current day if you do n't say anything ) . Each card is valid 24 hours from the date indicated , e.g. you can use it on one afternoon and the following morning . You indicate the date for each page by marking the start date and time at the back . I 'm pretty sure you do n't need to stamp it ( I do n't think the card would even fit in the validator ) . Here 's a picture showing the back of a page , from a <URL> :
<URL> Even if you become ineligible to apply for one , if you had it , you do n't lose it . " Valid for work only with DHS authorization " indicates that having a social security card is n't in itself proof that you are entitled to work in the US . For example , you might still have a valid social security card after your work visa has expired , or you might have been issued a social security card without being allowed to work in the US .
Exactly what Mark Mayo said , just check Google next time or go to Delhi 's main bazaar and ask in any of the music instrument shops , most of them offer sitar lessons and they all provide sitars for it . Here is a one that was recommended by a fellow traveler when I mentioned this question over dinner : Dhingra Musicals Rajat is giving the lessons in a room just above his shop and it is located at Main Bazaar in Paharganj , shop No. 1086 e-mail : dhingra.sons@yahoo.co.in Cell : 9911043900 or 9818536666 One lesson is 700 Rp and if you want to take 10 , it will be 3750 Rp but you can , of course , <URL> . You can buy a small sitar for 2600 Rp and a big one for around 6500 Rp .
It did n't stop me , I got a grilling about the contents of my passport when I traveled for business in February . The people doing the checks were El Al staff , before departing LHR . They asked me about stamps for Egypt x2 ( from the beginning of the civil unrest ) , Jordan , UAE , Turkey , Morocco and a trip to Lyon , France ( though I suspect that was to get a baseline ) . The whole process took about 45 min plus another 45 min for a search at the gate . Then no questions asked at customs - they stamped my boarding pass as I requested and let me in .
The IDP is only valid if you carry it along with your normal license ; and there are no restrictions on the license type ( in other words , if your normal license is endorsed for bikes , then the IDP will also carry that information ) . The IDP just acts as a global version of whatever your local license says ( its just a translation ) . Save for some commercial restrictions - for example , driving of large commercial vehicles , or transporting goods and people commercially - where you need an extra permit ; the IDP suffices for all types of land vehicles . It does not however , exempt you from local laws ; for example if you are allowed to drive at 16 in your local domicile , but the legal age for driving is 21 where you are visiting - the IDP will not grant you an exemption . It also means that if your license has a specific type restriction ( I know some licenses are rated for specific class of vehicles ) then the same will be written on the IDP and will apply in the foreign country .
I just realised what the correct answer is - a bit slow before . I 'm in Auckland , NZ . If still of use please contact me ( see profile page ) . Place data on a USB memory stick . Trust me :-) Give me memory stick and upload details . It will not be vastly fast , but I can set it to chug along as a background task on std ADSL throttled to a rate that does not annoy my game playing son too much . From your point of view it will be " as good as done " once you give me the data , so very fast . The recently introduced VDSL is probably fast enough for you . Actually claims to be faster than fibre best case . Reality varies . Up to 70 Mbps down and 10 Mbps up ( !!! ) Finding someone with it is probably a matter of asking . Telecom - > XTRA - > Spark call it " Ultra VDSL " Here is the <URL> complete with a " check your address " box . And <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
When exactly does your OPT expire - at Christmas as you 've stated , or 60 days beforehand ? Presuming it expires at Christmas , then you are legally able to stay in the US for 60 days after expiry . You are NOT allowed to work during that period , but you can legally stay in the country for other purposes , so if you 're planning to be a tourist for less than 60 days , AND you do not plan to leave the US during that time , then you 're good ! Once you leave the US after the expiry of your OPT , then you are NOT allowed to re-enter using the OPT - even if it is still within the 60 day grace period . However , as a Canadian Citizen you are allowed to re-enter the US as a tourist . Technically there is no reason that you could not do the immediately ( " same day " ) , however as with all entries it is at the discretion of the immigration officials to determine if they believe you are entering for the purposes you 're stating or not . If they believe that you are re-entering the US for the purposes of working , then they can deny your entry . How likely this is to occur will depend on your exact situation - if it were me I would have as much paperwork as possible available to show that you are a tourist rather than returning to work .
ATMs at the airport are numerous and easy to find . In Thailand , ATMs give you a better exchange rate than changing cash , especially for less-popular currencies like NZD . However , you need to be aware of the fees your home bank may charge ( fixed fee + percent commission ) . On top of this , almost all ATMs in Thailand charge an additional 150 THB fee for international transactions , so it 's better to withdraw larger amounts . Citibank ATMs near Asoke/Sukhumwit BTS Skytrain station do not charge the 150 baht fee ( as of Jan 2012 ) . Second best is probably changing cash to THB in Thailand . Rates at the Bangkok airport are reasonable , but some places in the city offer better rates . Exchange rates for THB in your home country are probably significantly worse than in Thailand ( due to currency export controls ) .
Rent a ( Solo ) Music Studio Since you mention the need to be alone , a dedicated music studio comes to mind . A quick google search revealed <URL> and <URL> . Both of these offer small solo studios for something around 6-7 per hour , during both weekdays ( off-peak and peak hours ) and weekends . Whether this is considered as cheap is up to you to . :) There must be more music studios available for rental out there . These are just two examples . To find more you might want to try querying your favourite search engine for salle de musique and/or studio de répétition ( French for music studio ) . Parks and Kiosques If you decide one day that you want to see something else other than soundproofing foam in Paris , you could head to any park , set up your gear on the grass and go nuts . Indeed it is not uncommon to see random art performers rehearsing in the Parisian parks . <URL> Moreover some parks have dedicated music gazebos ( kiosques in French ) with great acoustics . These are usually free to use . Note that from May to October some kiosques will be taken by <URL> , <URL> . If you wish to use the kiosques you 'll want to coordinate yourself with these events . <URL> Below is a picture of the kiosque at the Parc du square Necker : Le kiosque à musique du square Necker , <URL> , Fair use Park Regulations and Musical Instruments Note that is is technically forbidden to make noise and disturb other park users , as per <URL> . Moreover these explicitly mention noise arising from playing instruments : Sont interdits les bruits gênants par leur intensité , leur durée , leur fréquence ou leur caractère agressif , en particuliers ceux produits par les instruments de musique et de percussion et par la diffusion de musique amplifiée , sauf dérogation . Whilst this does indeed mean that you need to ask the Mairie de Paris for authorisation to play an instrument in the park , in my humble opinion you should be able to play freely so long as you do n't disturb others around you . Whether violin music is a nuisance due to its intensity , duration , frequency or aggressive character ( translating the afore-mentioned rules ) is up for discussion . In any case , keep in mind that you are doing something forbidden and that therefore people might ask you to move or stop .
Japanese-themed and Japanese-operated <URL> on the spine of the South Island has a Japanese-style public bathhouse where swimwear is optional : Pretty much everywhere else , including the outdoor area at Maruia itself , swimwear is required .
end question
start question
What problems and solutions arise with data access when travelling through multiple countries ?
What ways are there of establishing and maintaining a connection ? <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
According to the website <URL> , you can see seven countries from the summit of <URL> on the Kosovo-Macedonia border . The countries are : Kosovo Macedonia Albania ( several peaks ) Serbia ( several peaks ) Greece ( at least one peak , Vitsi ) Bulgaria ( some scattered areas ) Montenegro ( at least one peak on the border and some scattered areas within the country ) The shading of the alleged view as well as marking of several peaks can be seen at this link : <URL> . I found this peak by clicking on promising peaks at that webpage at random . The Wikipedia page on the mountain does not have this factoid . I have no idea about common weather conditions in the area ( how often the air is clear in all directions ) . Moreover , you have to subscribe to the foreign policy of one of the 108 countries that recognize Kosovo for this to be a record . It should in any case have the record of " highest increase of number of countries viewable in the modern era " as the area in question did only contain 4 countries prior to 1992 , and is in any case a tie to the Swiss mountain in JoeDeRose 's answer .
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
TL ; DR There are multiple factors involved with being able to drive in cold temperatures even with the onset of cold temperatures being fairly sudden 2-3 days notice . You should be looking at the following major components : Engine , Cabin , and Tires and looking at them separately and then there are additional subsystems and conditions that will make for an interesting conversation on its own so let 's begin : CABIN There are 2 important aspects in making sure that your cabin can provide you a comfortable ride : Weather stripping - There are kits that are being sold in auto stores and online that will provide better seals for your cabin during winter . Cold temperatures especially on the spectrum on -25 to -40 C tend to make rubber harder and more brittle and thus when you open the doors and closing them you can break those down and make holes in insulation making it more difficult for you to drive when you have to put on thick gloves and hat and shearling or similar to make sure you stay comfortable ( sorta ) . Heater - Make sure it works ! Cars like older <URL> had to have separate heaters because of the rear mounted engine and that heater ( as it turned out ) was basically a pilot light fed by gasoline from the tank heating the air that was pushed into the cabin . If this thing went out ... Well you get the idea . Windows - In addition to making sure that mounting weather stripping is up to par you will have to look whether or not your glass especially on the Windshield is good . I have personally had issues in one of the cars I owned when I had to defog the the windshield it cracked because of the temperature difference between inside and outside . Thankfully it was only a crack running along the bottom so I could still drive but a spiderweb on your windshield could pose a problem . This is usually not a problem for the newer cars with <URL> installed by the manufacturers but it could be a concern for older ones and for cars that had to have any of the glass replaced , which could be done by the outside parties . ENGINE There are several subsystems that will need to be looked at for it to function properly so let 's try : Battery The battery is important not just to start the car but also to make sure that your electrical systems run . A shorted out battery will stop your electrical systems from running . In addition to that the colder temperatures slow down the chemical reaction in the battery thus robbing it from power needed to start your car , so if the battery is 3 years or less and your car will only stay in the cold not for an extended period you can safely leave it in the car and you should be OK to start the car after . If not I would suggest removing it and keeping it indoors and reinstalling before you need to use it . Granted of course that you can remove it , some times it 's not that easy especially with modern cars that only have electronic keys . So if you have a batter that is 3 + years old it might be a good idea to replace it . Engine Block and Motor Oil <URL> needs to stay liquid and be able to be pumped into the engine when it starts so Winter viscosity needs to be appropriate . For the longest time in the US it was fairly standard to have cars with <URL> grade motor oil and mechanics looked at you funny when you requested 5W or even 0W oil which performs better at lower temperatures and helps to prevent your engine from seizing because oil pump ca n't put the what became of motor oil at those temperatures into the engine to lubricate the moving parts . <URL> also helps to be heated up using <URL> when the car is parked since it provides heat to the block keeping fuel , oil , and coolant at temperatures above freezing so that engine can start better . This usually comes as standard or optional equipement on trucks with large diesel engines to keep the fuel from <URL> but that 's next . Fuel and Fuel System There are different precautions that may need to be taken for gasoline vs. diesel fuel . Diesel Fuel because of generally higher viscosity or presence of bio components at <URL> so there is usually a heater for the fuel tank and fuel lines that is built in to the car . Whether or not it is hooked up to the <URL> that may come with the car remains to be seen but usually is . Some diesel engines provide <URL> to heat up the block somewhat to help with the start . Gasoline engines for the most part do n't have the problems with gelling fuels and freezing which happens around -50 C , however , modern gasolines have additives like Ethanol which freeze at higher temperatures , as well as potentially water that may have been mixed in with the gasoline , that actually can clog the fuel pump and fuel line ( I know of several manufacturer 's recalls , most notably Nissan Altima recently ) Cooling System The <URL> in the cooling system depending on the temperature can contain water and freeze in the pipes or radiator or in the water pump ( just watched my friend 's Porsche blow an engine due to this ) . So if you
Most North Korean visas are issued on <URL> , not in your passport , and are thus not a problem . Likewise , on entry and exit , they will stamp the paper and not your passport . Even if you do get a visa in your passport , as far as I 'm aware no country has a policy of actually refusing entry to people who have visited North Korea ; certainly neither Japan nor South Korea do , even though they 're technically at war . It certainly is the kind of thing you may expect to get a question or two over though .
Since you are transferring from a non-Schengen flight to an intra-Schengen one , you will enter the Schengen Area in Switzerland . <URL> Travel outside the Schengen area If you are travelling to or from countries that do not adhere to the Schengen Agreement you will have to pass through passport control in Zurich . Likewise , transfer passengers travelling to or from the Schengen area from a non-Schengen country will have to pass through passport control in Zurich in future . Generally speaking , your luggage will be checked through to your final destination if you booked the connecting flights via the same airline , and/or booked with separate airlines but both flights are on the same ticket .
As for your alternative question on " how to get the cheapest fare in Thalys " : the b-europe . com website offers a <URL> . For each date , it shows the price of the cheapest tickets still available on that date . The cheapest possible fare for a trip from Liège-Guillemins to Paris Nord seems to be $ 29 . These are always " Non Flex " tickets ( color coded in green ) meaning there 's no possibility of exchanges or refunds . There might be cheaper tickets because there 's a color code for " Promo " tickets ( yellow ) , but I 'm not seeing any on the fare calendar now ( I 'm not sure I ever have for the routes I 've booked ) . You can always book up to three months in advance , so today April 7th , you can book tickets up to July 7th . For that date , the cheapest offers I 'm currently seeing are : I 'm not sure about the Liège-Paris route , but in my experience with other routes , these offers do n't last long , especially if you do n't want to travel on a very early or very late train . So your best bet is to book exactly three months in advance .
After some more research , and help from a friend here in Mexico , I have found that the following bus lines ( listed in alphabetical order ) offer free WiFi on some of their routes : <URL> provided me with Internet access between Austin , TX and Laredo , TX , but once we crossed into Mexico , the Nuevo Laredo to Monterrey stretch had no Internet access . <URL> provides free WiFi on their <URL> bus service . <URL> offers Internet on their <URL> routes , currently ( as of 2011-11-23 ) only available between Mexico City and Puebla . <URL> has Internet available on ( at least some of ) their TuriStar Lujo service . To view Internet-capable routes , click the ETN SERVICES tab , then On Board Internet . <URL> provides Internet on at least some of their routes . ( I had Internet access between Guadalajara and Morelia . ) <URL> provides Internet on their <URL> routes . Routes are available in southwestern Mexico . <URL> provides free WiFi on routes between select destinations : * Guadalajara - Mazatlán Mexico City - León Querétero - Mexico City Airport Morelia - Mexico City Mexico City - Aguascalientes <URL> offers Internet with their Ave Ejecutiva service . They offer service throughout much of Mexico , and the U.S. . <URL> provides Internet with their TAP Confort service . They provide service along most of the west coast states of Mexico . <URL> offers Internet with their Autonaves Gran Confort service . I also found a <URL> that reviews various aspects of some of the top bus lines , and includes comments on the quality of Internet service available on a few . * I can not find a list of their Internet-enabled routes , except on an animated ad on their front page . As of 2011-11-23 , routes between the listed cities were advertised to provide Internet access .
You do not need a return ticket , as long as you can show a proof ( e.g. , letter ) that says come and collect your residency card ; In case the staff ask you about the intent of your trip to Denmark .
It seems the boats are leaving from Guayaquil and take 3 to 4 days . A <URL> , gives some information about this . These are cargo boats that supply the islands with food and other goods required for all the tourists . One of the two companies that run these boats was the owner of the oil tanker that caused the <URL> . They only list phone numbers for the two companies , no web sites . Considering the boats are basic cargo ships and not much cheaper than a plane , I doubt many tourists are using them , still it would be a good idea to call ahead and find out about schedule and prices .
If you 're on international flight , staying less than 24 hours in airport , and are not leaving it , you do not need a transit visa . Look at <URL> .
Travelers leaving or entering the U.S. with more than $ 10,000 ( in any form , that includes cash or checks ) are required to declare it by filling out a Report of International Transportation of Currency or Monetary Instruments ( <URL> ) . This applies even if you are passing through the U.S. in transit to other countries . Source : <URL>
Unfortunately , the online site doens ' t have all the features that a phone booking or in-person booking does . Perhaps one day . It 's not however , a duplicate of their functionality . Most common bookings can indeed be done online , and the assumption is travellers likely have similar discounts , if any . You have two options : Book two separate transactions , which gets you the discount , but causes you problems with bank fees and cardholder rights . You can also get the web discount , which is sometimes cheaper than in person anyway . Phone or book in person ( if possible ) . This allows more complex bookings , and should let you do it in one transaction .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
You should be fine . For transits of less than 6 hours such as your case you do n't need a visa , as long as you have proof of onward <URL> , according to the Timatic tool on Emirates ' website . Transit - Oman ( OM ) Visa Visa required . TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of onward tickets for a max . transit time of 6 hours . Visa Issuance : Passengers in transit for longer than 6 hours , can obtain a single transit visa on arrival for a maximum stay of 72 hours if they have confirmation from the airline that a visa has been approved before departure .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
<URL> Traditional Islamic law is known as <URL> . By and large , countries following it or having a dual system of civil law as well as Sharia is depicted in this map . As a traveller , this is something you need to watch out for as a country you 're visiting may have laws not commonly found in civil law found in most other countries . What makes it tough to understand is the uneven interpretation each country has . For instance , playing card games in public is not allowed in Malaysia as it is considered a form of gambling ( even if you are n't gambling ) , yet alcohol ( which is prohibited by Islamic law ) is sold openly . Most locals will be willing to point out to you if you commit a faux pas , but once you have been to a couple of Muslim countries you will get a hang of the basic rules in addition to traditional civil law that you need to be aware of .
The two best sources for this type of data are <URL> and <URL> . Although these sites both get data from the FAA , I do n't know that either would be considered " official " . The nearest to official source would be the FAA data available at <URL> however this data is always several months behind ( eg , they currently have up to November 2011 ) , and not as easy to search for specific flights as either of the above two sites . For ( at least ) Flight Stats you 'll need to create an account to look at historic data , however it 's free to do so .
Go for the latter : get an unlocked smartphone and a local data plan . By far the cheapest . Also , you could buy the phone in Thailand . That being more of a developing country , you 'd be surprised how cheap ( mostly Chinese , but not only ) smartphones can be . You should easily be able to get a basic smartphone for under 100 USD . Even the low end Samsungs should n't set you back more than 130 USD . Getting a data plan in the US is not a good idea . Roaming charges on data tend to be very unreasonable .
Kids that age are too large for car seats and probably do n't need booster seats . Their parent should bring : books , handheld video games , smartphones , headsets , crossword or similar puzzle books that they enjoy ( and plenty of pens/pencils/etc in case some get dropped or lost ) snacks like granola bars or carrot sticks that they like paper towels/wetwipes chewing gum for the descent a small camera for each child so they can document the heck out of the whole thing - their suitcase in their room just before it 's zipped shut , driving to the airport , the checkin line , etc etc - this makes it start to be fun long before it starts You can bring : earplugs in case the engine noise bothers them , You can also offer them to any nearby passengers who seem upset . wristbands that prevent motion sickness ( they may or may not be placebo , who cares as long as they help ) gravol or the like to help with motion sickness ( and also makes some children sleep ) ( my distinction is that parents should bring things that need to fit the child 's taste or preferences , or cost a lot , and you can bring small things that you pull out of your pocket to help when trouble arises . ) Toys are generally problematic . Anything with small pieces is out because losing a piece will cause more trouble than the toy prevented . Anything throwable is out . In advance , you can give the children a book about planes and airports , or a video , to reassure them about the process . A 6 year old should have no reason to be afraid of flying , but the cure for fear is knowledge , so provide it .
end question
start question
What 's the best time to get " last-minute " discount hotel prices ?
Hotels , like most travel services , work very much on a supply-and-demand basis . If the demand is high , then prices will go up , and eventually hotels will sell out even at the higher prices . If the demand is low , prices do sometimes come down over time - although frequently the hotels themselves will not want to drop their prices below a certain level , which is where opaque bookings like Hotwire/Priceline come in , selling the hotels excess inventory depending on how many free rooms they have . Priceline/Hotwire prices definitely do vary significantly night-to-night for the same properly , based primarily on the hotels expected occupancy rates . This means that as the date gets closer , the price may drop , but it may also rise or even not be available at all . Depending on the size of the event you 're attending it 's even possible that it will have an impact on the number of rooms available - frequently it 's difficult to find any rooms available in an area , let alone cheap rooms , if there is a major conference/sporting event/etc occurring at the time . As the event gets closer , room availability gets lower , prices get higher , and opaque booking venders end up getting allocated zero rooms to sell ! If you must have a hotel , it 's often a good idea to find somewhere with a good cancellation policy ( eg , allowing you to cancel up until at least a day or two before the event ) - this gives you the certainty of having somewhere to stay if prices go up , but also allows you to keep looking/bidding for cheaper rooms as the date gets closer . If you find somewhere cheaper , simply cancel your initial reservation !
While a full yawn is best , simulating the movement your jaw makes in a yawn is enough to pop your ears ( and often simulating a yawn makes a real one happen anyway ) If you have a cold , or if you let the pressure build up a lot it can be difficult to get the eustachian tubes to open , so in those instances I hold my nose , close my mouth and gently try and blow . This is one you want to try gently , as blowing too hard could actually damage your ear drums , so practice doing it with relaxed cheeks ( almost as if you were playing a trumpet . ) You can also just try one eardrum at a time , which can make this easier and safer .
Cheap international air tickets are generally not refundable . You will get some airport taxes back ( probably less than 100 USD ) minus an administration fee . Alternatively you might get a voucher that you can use towards a future flight on the same airline . It depends on how you buy the ticket . As a rule of thumb a fully refundable ticket will be about three times the price of the cheapest ticket you can find . Some airlines will let you change your ticket to a future date , but only if you tell them before the flight . Ten days is not last minute . Last minute is when you arrange your flight in the taxi to the airport . Anyway , ten days before I would expect the price of MCI-RIX-MCI to be about 1000 USD ( in economy class ) , providing your stay includes a Saturday night . Such a ticket is considered a deep discount advance purchase fare and remains unrefundable . In your shoes I would definitely purchase the ticket after I received the visa .
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
Shamelessly converting <URL> in a answer , <URL> is a website which allows you to compare diving prices by location ( <URL> ) , and <URL> . They even have <URL> .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
Short answer : Yes , according to the official rules you could be denied access at the border . You can avoid this by submitting the green form ( along with additional documentation ) after the fact . It sounds like you participated in the <URL> and the green form was an <URL> . <URL> , If you departed by land , private vessel or private plane , you will need to take steps to correct the record . If you do not validate your timely departure from the United States , or , if you can not reasonably prove you departed within the time frame given to you when you entered , the next time you apply for admission to the U.S. , Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ) may conclude you remained in the U.S. beyond your authorized stay . If this happens , your visa may be subject to cancellation or you may be returned immediately to your foreign point of origin . [ Emphasis is mine . ] If you still have the green form , you can remedy the situation by mailing it to : Coleman Data SolutionsBox 7965Akron , OH 44306Attn : NIDPS ( I-94 ) USA if using the U.S. Postal Service , or Coleman Data Solutions3043 Sanitarium Road , Suite 2Akron , OH 44312Attn : NIDPS ( I-94 ) USA if using FedEx or UPS . You should also include a copy of the boarding pass you used to exit Canada . You should also provide a letter explaining your situation and why the form was not originally collected . Proof that you lived elsewhere after the 90 day period of the visa waiver ( e.g. , rent checks , pay stubs , receipts , &amp; c. , from after you got home ) would also be helpful . <URL> . Therefore , you will need to show that your total time spent in Canada and the USA was no longer than 90 days . The <URL> does seem to suggest that it may be enough to simply bring this documentation with you the next time you enter the US . Regardless of whether or not you mail it to the government in advance , you should definitely bring a copy of all of the documentation with you on re-entry . Also , if you are really worried , it seems like you will have no problems if you apply for and receive a formal tourist visa before re-entering the US , but that process will also likely require you to provide the same documentation .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
<URL> is probably the cheapest , at 3.00 lira ( ~ $ 2 USD ) , but it takes very long ( ~ 1.5 h at times ) and is often packed . Havas bus is faster and costs 10 lira ( ~ $ 6.50 USD ) . If you plan to use public transport a lot , buy the Akbil pass ( saves a bit of money and you do n't need to dig for coins all the time ) . The trip is also possible via metro , but involves changing over twice ( Zeytinburnu to tram and a short walk at <URL> ) . This takes 3 tokens ( jetons ) , and costs 3 x 3 = 9 lira ( ~ 5 USD ) , in 2012 . ( <URL> )
<URL> offers " Sparpreis " saver fares up to a few minutes before departure . However , these are the regular saver fares that only rise and almost never fall in price if you are getting nearer to departure , Up until last December <URL> offered such tickets however that promotors on has stopped . A month ago they once again had a few without long notice so it pays to check from time to time . Note that they currently sell the same tickets as Deutsche Bahn directly but with a surcharge . You might be able to find someone selling their non-online saver fare on websites such as EBay Kleinanzeigen or local Facebook groups . However , never fall for offers to book a connection you provide them for a low price on those sites as an online-ticket . These are too good to be true . Other than that there are no last minute deals for Deustche Bahn trains in Germany .
Depending on which route you take you may pass through at least 2 or 3 Electronic toll collection systems you can find most of them on the <URL> page . If you take the most direct route via West Virginia , Ohio , Indiana , Illinois and then via I-90 to Washington , you might need <URL> , <URL> , and Washington 's <URL> . You can look at other states that have the Electronic Toll collection systems unaffiliated with other states like California , Texas , Florida , Oklahoma , Colorado , and Kansas . So generally I would n't bother with buying the transponders from them just keep some cash on hand for now and wait until you get License Plate billing technology installed like in <URL> or <URL> . California seems to be moving in that direction ...
This actually depends on quite a few factors . I wondered this once many years ago , and asked around quite a bit . Did n't have Travel.SE back then ;) The earth is rotating at a rather fast speed - and any point on the earth is therefore actually ' moving ' ( it 's all relative ) . Since the points on the equator have further to travel , they 're moving even faster than at the poles . Now , of course , the air is dragged around WITH the earth , thankfully , otherwise the poor chaps on the equator would have wind speeds in the opposite direction of near the speed of sound ;) However , when you 're in a plane , consider that it can take nearly an hour longer to fly across the Atlantic in a westerly direction ( ' against ' the spin ) than ' with ' the spin . When you 're flying with the spin , and by relation , with the wind , you 're not flying ' into ' a force that 's going the other way , as you are when you fly against the spin . The earth is also dragging you with it - or rather , it 's dragging the atmosphere , and you in it . However , what you 'll tend to find is that it 's actually far more dependent in reality on the existence of jetstreams - where the air up there is moving faster than at ground level , and can boost the plane 's speed if going in the same direction . Of course , in the other direction you do well to avoid the jetstream , as it would slow you down . To put it in words more eloquent than my own , I 'll borrow a quote from <URL> , which first , you must consider yourself to be running ... Stop running . If you were to jump straight up in the air , would the Earth rotate beneath you ? ( Those who do believe that the Earth rotates around them may want to stop reading right now . ) No , because when you left the Earth 's surface , you were traveling at the same speed as the surface , so , in essence , the Earth matched your speed through space while you were in the air ! The same condition holds true for an airplane as it travels from Los Angeles to Bombay . If we were to ignore the winds , no matter which direction you flew from Los Angeles , the speed of the aircraft relative to the Earth would be the same . While the aircraft 's speed through space would change , the effect of the Earth 's rotation remains constant , and in effect is " cancelled out " no matter which direction you travel . In other words , the speed of the rotation of the Earth is already imparted to the aircraft , and the Earth matches that speed during the entire flight . ( Of course , in the case of spacecraft , these speeds become very important . ) So , the end result of that long discussion is that the rotation of the Earth has no effect on the travel time of an aircraft . Actually , it is the headwinds and tailwinds that cause the change in travel times . Sometimes it is hard to believe that the winds can have that much effect , so let us consider the problem a bit more in depth . In the example given , the flight from Bombay to California ( east ) is 23 % shorter than the trip from California to Bombay ( west ) . This means that the speed of the trip east must be 23 % faster . The prevailing winds pretty much anywhere that we are talking about blow from west to east , so when we are traveling east , we get a speed gain , and when we travel west , we get a speed penalty . Now , if we are to assume that the winds are identical on both days we fly , then the wind speed only needs to be equal to 11.5 % of the aircraft 's speed ! This would cause a difference between the speed to the west and speed to the east of 23 % ! The cruise speed of the extended range Boeing 777 is about 550 mph ( 885 km/h ) at 35,000 ft ( 10,675 m ) . This means that the winds only need a speed of about 65 mph ( 105 km/h ) ( good kite weather ) . Believe it or not , 65 mph is a very typical wind speed at such a high altitude . Speeds of over 100 mph ( 160 km/h ) are not uncommon . If we wanted to make things more complicated , we could consider a region of high speed flow called the jet stream that flows eastward , and if an aircraft can take advantage of these winds , then the travel time can be reduced further . Also note <URL> , which affect all this . So what is the bottom line ? The direction you travel in relation to the rotation of the Earth does not affect the travel time of an aircraft , and , more importantly , a mere 65 mph wind is more than enough to cause a difference in travel time of five hours when you are traveling long distances !
Stealing shamelessly from mouviciel 's comment ( and memory ) , the correct answer is Pontorson , which is about 9 km from the Mount -- a bit of a hike on foot , but quite doable if you rent a bike . Also , the article quoted in Nikita 's answer is shameless rip off from <URL> , which is particularly annoying since I wrote the original of that text . Time for a nastygram ! ( Edit : to the person who copied it , not you Nikita ! )
Not my region ( lavender is mostly found in Provence , but there are occasional fields in other regions ) , so I need to rely on <URL> . Lavender flowers from late June to late August . It is typically harvested well before the flower wilts , because the heat makes the essence rise towards the flower 's glands , so the plant 's aroma becomes less strong as the summer goes by . The exact harvest time varies from region to region ( and of course with the year 's weather ) ; looking around on the Internet , I see dates ranging from mid-July to mid-August ; for example there are <URL> from the third Sunday in July to the 15th of August ; the harvest tends to be earlier in the Drôme region .
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
I fly either that route ( as part of a GRU-SCL-AKL-MEL ) or the GRU-SCL-SYD-MEL route about 8 + times a year , though typically in business . There are really only two airlines to get you from SAO to AKL , and they 're Qantas and LAN , who each code-share the other 's flights . LAN 's fares are usually cheaper tha Qantas , even for exactly the same flight ( ie a LAN-marketed-fare on a Qantas-operated flight ) . The service and amenities in business at least are almost identical on both the LAN and Qantas flights out of Santiago ( SCL ) . In economy I suspect Qantas will be better , as I do n't think LAN have seat-back entertainment in economy . Because of the lack of competition on these routes , you will not find great variance between days of the week , especially if booking from further out . As the date gets closer , the weekends and Monday and Friday tend to book up , leaving only the higher fare classes aqvailable , so 1-4 weeks out you may see perhaps as much as a 20-30 % difference in fare between a mid-week flight and the other days . But this depends entirely on what has filled up . I recommend you book a LAN-marketed flight on Qantas metal , via an OTA such as Expedia . This is likely to be the best value .
I looked through our database at <URL> where we 're working to aggregate all the world 's bus providers and routes . We 're sure we do n't know about everything yet , but we 've found a lot of routes . There are several long routes in South and North America based on driving distance measured on google maps . Here are the top contenders for long same-bus trips with no transfers . South America : There are a few documentaries and tv reports about the long direct routes on <URL> where you can see the same coach goes all the way through . 5582 km : Lima , Peru to Buenos Aires , Argentina ( Ormeño ) - Via Santiago , Chile . 5573 km : Lima , Peru to Sao Paulo , Brazil ( Ormeño ) - Via Rio Branco , Acre , Brazil . North America : 4644 km / 85 hours : Los Angles , California , USA to San Salvador , El Salvador ( Usa Tours ) - Once a week via Tijuana , Guadalajara , and Guatemala City . 4607 km / 65 hours : <URL> - via Kansas , Pittsburg and Philadelphia . Impressively , Greyhound runs two of these a day . 3538 km : Saint Paul , Minnesota , USA to Morelia , Michoacán , Mexico ( Transportes Chayo ) . 3435 km / 52 hours : <URL> - All passengers are required to get off the bus for cleaning in Sudbury and Winnipeg amongst other places . 3254 km / 44 hours : <URL> - There are several other buses from Chicago to Mexico but this is the most frequent , at least daily , and the longest we 're sure is a direct bus . Europe : 3631 km : Braunschweig , Germany to Grozny , Chechnya , Russia ( KVN ) - The route is currently a bit longer than normal since it 's detouring around the entire eastern Ukraine through Belarus . 3558 km : Burgas , Bulgaria to Liverpool , England , United Kingdom ( Sofia Bus ) - Via Maribor , Stuttgart , Mannheim , Paris , London , Manchester . Africa 1868 km : Johannesburg , South Africa to Lilongwe , Malawi ( Intercape )
end question
start question
Where can I find official information about visa on arrival to South Sinai ?
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
US Citizens DO require a visa to enter Turkey . Presuming you are only visiting for tourism ( which it sounds like you are ) , you can obtain the Visa ( the " sticker " you refer to ) at your point of entry . After you enter the airport but before immigration there is a window where you simply hand over the visa fee and they will put the Visa into your passport . You then proceed to immigration who will stamp the sticker . The visa fee varies depending on your nationality , but when I was there a few years ago it was US$ 20 for most countries , more for Canadians ( US$ 80 I think ) and a few other countries . There 's no interview/forms/etc involved , it 's really nothing more than a " pay the fee and get your visa " setup . The visa is good for 90 days . You can also obtain a visa in advance from the Turkish consulate , but unless you 're going for more than tourism there 's really no point .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
You can try <URL> . And in general you can look at <URL> to get many possible resources for accommodations .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
A list of all the customs and import fees is available on the <URL> along with explanations , forms etc. . And <URL> is their guide for customs for tourists , including student visas ( In Hebrew ) . The guide specifies exactly what is exempt from fees , food is exempt for up to a total of 3 kg , as long as each kind of food does n't exceed 1 kg . The list of fees is available <URL> ( In Hebrew ) . Specifically for your question , the fees on " mixed food up to 15 kg " ( מזון מעורב עד 15 ק " ג ) are : 17 % for goods worth 75 $ -500 $ 17 % + 2.93 ILS for each kg for goods worth 500 $ -1000 $ " according to the imported item " for goods worth more than 1000 $ . * - 17 % is the VAT is Israel .
BCEL has an ATM outside the airport arrivals area . Look for the " LDB Exchange " counter adjacent to the main exit . ( If you stand at the counter and look out the window you 'll see the sign for the ATM . ) Head outside .
Risk of contracting malaria is higher in nearby countries than in Thailand . Look at this map from <URL> : Risky areas are clearly regions bordering neighbouring countries . <URL> , malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water . When you 're in Bangkok next to Chao Phraya river or on beach somewhere else , these conditions are unlikely to be satisfied . What you need to check though is when are you travelling to Thailand . There has been <URL> and you need to check whether you 're travelling to an affected area . Flooded areas will have conditions conducive for spread of the kind of mosquito that transmits malaria . If you 're really concerned , you can always you can take antimalarials with you as well as <URL> .
Mileage varies related to the traveler 's nationality , but I entered Armenia from Georgia just three weeks ago and got a 6 euro visa at the border without any problems . I was traveling on a Dutch passport . Danes and Germans crossing the border at the same time as me also easily got their visa at the border for the low price of 6 euros . The visa fee was payable in Armenian currency only . No ATMs were available , but a change machine was . I was asked how long i wanted to stay , said about two weeks and got 20 days . I feel I could have gotten longer if I 'd ask . The crossing might have been at Bagramashen , but I 'm not totally sure anymore . I took a regular marshrutka from Tbilisi train station to Yerevan .
According to the <URL> : Residents of the 33 approved countries can obtain a Tourist Visa upon arrival . The visa can be purchased for a nominal fee at the airport or port . It can also be issued online instantly prior to travel . This visa is valid for one month and can not be extended . The <URL> are : Fees Visa issuance fees : QR 100 for each visa , QR 50 for each accompanying person and QR 200 for overstay fine per day . At the current exchange rate this works out to ~ 28 . This visa is valid for one month and non-extendable .
For starters your friend does not get a VOA ( Visa on Arrival ) , rather he enters under the Visa Waiver program as a Canadian citizen . Which , as you likely know , gives him a 30 day entry stamp each time he comes . His criminal record in Canada is not available to immigration officials in Thailand , unless they have requested it from the Canadian government , which is highly unlikely since he has never been in Thailand before . If he applies for a 60 day Tourist Visa in advance , then the Thailand Embassy in Canada may request and consider his criminal record . The same would apply to any other country which requires him to apply in advance for a tourist visa . For VOAs in neighboring countries ( Cambodia , Laos ) , the visa is issued based supplied information on the application form and any data in that country 's immigration system from previous visits . The immigration officials do not have access to nor the time to comb through other country 's criminal records .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
According to <URL> you can find cheetahs around Africa and Middle East . Image is in public domain One of the easiest places to see Cheetahs ( I saw a lot there ) is Masai Mara National Park ( Kenya ) .
Most people from countries that used to get visa on arrival in Turkey now have to apply for an e-visa and are advised to do so before traveling . <URL> and who can apply . And <URL> need to have . Australia : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . Ordinary passport holders can obtain three month-multiple entry e-Visas via the website www.evisa.gov.tr . If you have no chance to apply before arrival , or do not want to do it , you can risk waiting till you arrive , ( or your friend of course , ) <URL> and check your country is in the list . Australia is on the list .
Required under certain conditions : Outside populated areas : Italy , Hungary and Romania Indicated roads only : Portugal Motorcycles only : Belgium , France , Spain Recommended : Germany , Spain , France Required at all times : Bulgaria , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , Iceland , Latvia , Lithuania , Macedonia , Montenegro , Norway , Poland , Russia , Serbia , Slovakia , Slovenia , Sweden , Switzerland ( <URL> ) Note that all vehicles sold in EU since 2011 are required to have DRLs installed as per European Union Directive 2008/89/EC . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
I 'm not aware of one website which covers this comprehensively . However , there is some information on guests and lounges generally for each of the major airline alliances : Oneworld allow entry for one guest for Emerald and Sapphire members : <URL> ( with exceptions for American Airlines lounges ) Star Alliance allow one guest for travelling in First Class or for Gold members : <URL> Skyteam allow guests for Elite Plus members travelling internationally : <URL> ( that 's for departure lounges - typically arrival lounges are rarer and the entry policies are even stricter ) My personal experience is that policies vary - the above are the ' minimum ' , but some lounges may be more generous , particularly if the guests are family members , the lounge is n't packed with people , guests are dressed smartly , you ask nicely , etc. . <URL> also maintains a fairly extensive list of lounges with details about facilities , entry policies , etc. . For some of those there are details on what you can pay to get in . Typically in my experience airline-branded lounges outside the US often do n't allow you to pay for entry at all ( although there are generic lounges , such as those operated by <URL> , that normally do ) . In North America , sometimes airline lounges do allow for paid entry , but costs can be steep ( e.g. American Airlines Admirals ' Club <URL> ) .
The tourist information offices in Ireland ( <URL> ) sell booklets with maps of campsites . I got one in the Dublin office for $ 5 . It lists loads of campsites , has some photographs of them , lists details ( opening days , phone numbers , directions , facilities , etc. ) . They also sell booklets of B&amp;B 's / Hotels . That has an overview map , but would n't count as a street atlas . As far as I know most road atlases ( which can be bought almost anywhere , in many bookshops and newsagents around the country ) will mark campsites , they wo n't have the level of detail ( like phone numbers so you can ring ahead and book or get directions ) that the one from the tourist information office will have , so I recommend supplimenting your street atlas with this campsite directory . Are you camping , or taking a caravan/mobile home . ( Caravaning in Ireland has other problems )
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
Japanese schools differ by area . In Hokkaido , the long winter means longer winter holidays . Opposite applies in the south . Public holidays are universal though , inc Golden Week . From my experience holidays are usually end Mar / start April , August and mid / end Dec to early January . New school year starts in April .
end question
start question
Can I drive into Ukraine with my car ?
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
It 's not that extreme . For mountains and forests : a ) Do n't block the road , not even partially . If that means you ca n't park , do n't . And do n't park in turns etc. where the car ca n't be seen by other drivers before reaching it . ( Remember buses , on roads where you would never expect them ) . b ) If it is eg . a road to a ski lift in winter , or touristy for some other reason , and you 're near a parking area , better use it . Otherwise , you should be fine . On most mountain roads etc. , outside of villages , you wo n't find marked parking space at all . However , I 'm not sure what you mean with " days " . If you plan to leave your car to sleep in the woods with a sleeping bag , someone could see your car on the roadside several times with some hours between = > worrying what happened to the owner = > car removed and police searching for you . In such situations , find a proper place to leave it . For small villages : If they 're small enough to not have marked parking space , you ca n't use it ...
You can do such trip by " <URL> " company : From Kerch to Poti every Tuesday , at next day you are at Poti . Operations service phone : +38 ( 0482 ) 34-76-63 . According to <URL> , schedule is set at the start of each month , so you should call there before you came in Kerch . Also there is a line Batumi - Ilyichevsk , which is more popular line ( ferry goes each 2-3 days ) , and you have more chances to use it than Poti - Kerch .
Well first of all , as has been pointed out in comments , you will really want to trust your friend . He could run off with all of your money , not pay you back the full amount or lose the card . If all of that is no issue for you , look to your terms and conditions that you signed for the debit card . Very likely there is <URL> By sharing your card with someone you are in breach of your terms and if shit hits the fan your bank is not going to be happy . That could happen as soon as a clerk notices that their signature is not the one you used to sign the card . The right way to proceed would be to add your friend as an " authorized user " to your debit card . There is likely additional paperwork involved and probably also fees , but this is the only correct way of doing this . Note that given you are not currently present in the U.S. nor is your friend a resident there , this process might be rather difficult .
There are two answers here . The correct thing to do would be to get an <URL> ( " Temporary Admission " ) , which basically certifies that whatever you 're importing is going to go back out again , so you do n't have to pay taxes and duties on it . <URL> , although there are some awkward conditions about them being " restricted to goods imported for display or use at approved exhibitions / fairs and similar events " , although this is <URL> . Opting for this route will entail a full-on battle with Indian bureaucracy and you will almost certainly want to engage professional assistance . If you ca n't get a carnet , you 'll need to post a Customs bond equivalent to the value of the taxes and duties you 're not paying , which will be even worse to deal with . In case that all sounds too scary , the practical thing to do would be to just import it with no declaration of any kind and hope Customs does n't realize how valuable your item is . The odds of success are 99 % , particularly if you 're white ( unfortunate but true ) and can project the well-connected-businessman-so-don ' t-even-think-of-hassling-me vibe ... but it could get seriously complicated and expensive if you luck out .
There is currently little consumer demand in the U.S. for NFC payments , for a number of reasons : Magnetic card swipe readers are ubiquitous ; in D.C. , I can use them not only at gas station pumps and for Metro tickets , but in vending machines and parking meters , and even in almost every mom-and-pop shop . There is a standards battle underway between Google Wallet , ISIS , LevelUp , Square , and other players which has divided the small market . Vendors and consumers alike are waiting . Apple has not gotten behind the technology , meaning it is not available on the most popular and arguably the most aspirational brand of devices without obtaining a hardware accessory . All mobile phone-based NFC payment technologies are newish , and not without their kinks . To relate an anecdote , in the time it took my co-worker to show off paying at the drugstore with his new phone -- to retrieve and unlock it , hold it up to the reader , be recognized , and receive the payment approval -- I could have retrieved my credit card , swiped , and put it away three or four times . As such , mobile phone-based NFC payments are very rarely accepted by independent establishments , and even some major chains are giving up on it for now ; <URL> . If you do want to use NFC , there are a growing number of options , but they are mostly with large chains . ISIS is accepted at McDonald 's and CVS ; Google Wallet is accepted at Walgreens and Five Guys ; Square is accepted at Starbucks ; and so on . The backers of the different NFC networks are striving mightily to promote them , so they will have web pages devoted to listing supporting vendors ; for example , you search can search by city or postal code for local <URL> and <URL> merchants , including vending machines .
Meanwhile I 've got response from Transavia 's support : For a baby of up to 24 months old , you may only take an infant car seat or umbrella buggy ( a maximum of 7 kilograms ) along with you on board of the plane . When you board the plane , transavia.com will load the infant car seat or buggy into the cargo hold . During the flight , you have to keep the baby on your lap . Each adult may only have a single baby on his or her lap during the journey . There are no carrycots on board .
Almost certainly your " exit " was recorded when you left the country , despite the fact that they did n't take the card . The airline provides these details to the US government , and they are tracked using that rather than the I-94 itself ( this is one of the reasons that the I-94 cards are no longer used when entering by air ) . Your can confirm this by going to the <URL> and clicking on " get their I-94 Number " . You can then request a " Travel History " which will show all entries and exits from the US . If your exit is correctly recorded then you can simply throw away from I-94 . If the exit has not been correctly recorded , but you have subsequent entries/exits ( which it sounds like you do ) , then you can also safely throw away the I-94 - but I would suggest keeping a copy of any " proof " that you have related to when you left the US on that trip ( eg , copies of flight itineraries , tickets , etc ) just in case it ever becomes an issue - although the odds of that are extremely low . As a more generic answer , if you have not had any subsequent entries to the US then you can post the I-94 back to the US DHS/CBP , as <URL> .
<URL> has good information about Mexican auto policies for U.S. drivers on his <URL> . Which company and policy is right for you depends on where you 'll be driving in Mexico . The company I have used before , as recommended by " Mexico " Mike , <URL> is apparently no longer around , as evidenced by the broken link , and the fact that it 's no longer listed on his review page . His page also claims that insurance is not strictly required : Auto insurance is not required to drive in Mexico . If you want to risk having an accident , losing your car , motorcycle or RV and being thrown in jail to save a couple of hundred dollars , that is your right . Personally , I think it is foolish not to buy auto , RV or motorcycle insurance from a Mexican company to drive in Mexico . ... You see the statement that " Mexico requires automobile insurance " on numerous web sites . Honestly , that is not true . I want you to get insurance , but I also want to tell you the truth . Mexico is one of 4 countries in this hemisphere that do not require auto liability insurance nationally . I do know that it 's not required for Mexicans to have auto insurance , but I 've also heard that it is required for foreigners to have auto insurance when registering their vehicle at Mexican customs . I 've always had insurance when I entered , so have never tested this requirement personally . And as cheap as Mexican auto insurance is ( or has been for me , with the company that 's no longer around ) , I think you 'd be foolish not to buy insurance , too . And finally , one thing to be aware of when buying Mexican Auto insurance is that most Mexican auto insurance policies work differently than U.S. insurance policies . Where as part of a U.S. policy , you generally select a deductible , which in turn affects your premium , most Mexican policies simply pay a percentage of damages , up to a maximum . I have seen some Mexican policies that operate more like U.S. policies , but they are hard to find ( I think Nelson used to offer those ) .
Fortunately , the family-friendly website FamilesGoTravel.com <URL> : Here is a list of Taxi companies who have told us they have car seats . We recommend you call ahead to confirm they 'll have one available to you . And their company for Boston : <URL> 888-756-8876 Hope that helps !
In another document , <URL> , it says , emphasis mine : In de artikelen Douanebepalingen Nederland en Douanebepalingen Nederland , bijzondere goederen staat precies beschreven wat u Nederland mee in mag nemen zonder aangifte te hoeven doen . Or in English , The articles " Customs regulations Netherlands " and " Customs regulations Netherlands , special goods " describe exactly what you are allowed to take with you into the Netherlands without having to declare . The second of those documents has another description of those rules about fruit . So a few fruits for personal use are allowed , and you do n't have to declare them . They 're treated exactly like everything else that you 're allowed to just bring with you .
Wow . . that 's a tough one . The official documents are online at the <URL> but ( naturally ) they 're all in Georgian and even Google Translate could n't help me find anything there of note . There 's an <URL> but they lack the detailed document search you need to find information this specific . Meanwhile , the US Department of State has this to say in their <URL> : They do n't mention knives at all but perhaps absence of evidence is evidence of absence in this case . Then there 's the completely unofficial , anecdotal accounts I 've turned up elsewhere on the web : Centurion , a hostile environment training provider , <URL> . ( To be taken with salt due to their business interests . ) This article in the <URL> also claims many students now carry knives to school due to an increase in bullying . ( Does n't mention if it 's legal . ) The author of <URL> , suggests Swiss Knives and Leathermans as good gifts for a host family . ( Might be stupid . ) These are about as far as you can get from an official source but they do paint the picture of a society either without strong concealed weapon laws or at least very poor enforcement . It may just be that my Google-Fu is weak today but I get the distinct feeling Georgia does n't have any knife laws to speak of . ( Oh but obviously do n't take them in your carry on ! )
The vehicle temporarily imported by the owner may be driven in Mexico by the spouse or adult children , as long as they have the same immigration status . Other persons may drive the vehicle as long as the owner is in the vehicle . <URL>
Your passport is an important document and it should be kept safe at all times . One of the best ways in general is not to have it with you but keep it in the hotel safe . This varies by location and in some places , it is safer with you . In Singapor , crime is very low and there should not be a problem to have it with you . My strategy is to keep a photocopy of the important passport page with me . That copy is folded up and takes very little space . It is not an official document but has enough information to show who I am . Note that in some countries you have the obligation to keep a piece of identification with you at all times . For a foreigner , this often means the passport but not necesarily . Any travel book of the location you are going to usually references the rule but to have the official word , consult the embassy .
It 's worth considering . There is no such thing as perfectly " safe " in this regard , only varying levels of risk . Typically the airline will allow enough time that the transfer can be made , including luggage , etc , if the first flight arrives on time and everything goes as planned . But it 's not a guarantee . If the first flight is delayed for any reason ( which is entirely possible ) then you may very well miss the connection . The airline is not promising to hold the second flight for you , or anything like that . They do promise to put you on their next available flight to your destination . But if those flights are infrequent , or if they are all full , you may wait for quite a while ; you will not have priority over passengers originally ticketed on those flights . Depending on the cause of the delay and the local laws governing your airports or airlines , you may receive compensation money , or reimbursement for your meals and lodging during the delay ; or you may not . So it 's up to you to weigh the risks and benefits . How important is it to arrive at your destination with the shortest possible layover ( in the best case ) ? How much cheaper is this itinerary , compared to others with longer layovers ? How much of an inconvenience would it be if you missed the connection ? How late in the day is your connection , and how many more flights are there to your destination ? How often is the first flight late ? ( Usually this statistic is published somewhere . ) Consider all these factors , and then decide if a short connection is an acceptable risk for you . That 's the only meaningful sense of the word " safe " .
The UK is not part of the Schengen agreement . So you would need a seperate visa . The only situation you would n't is discussed in <URL> .
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
Depends on the tea , check <URL> . Seems forbidden if the tea contains fruit or vegetable leaves or seeds , including citrus leaves or seeds . But otherwise okay for personal use . But you might want to double check .
I 'm a German , living in Chile and extended my tourist visa several times in the past , the last time in January this year . This information is based on my personal experience . In short : Yes , you can extend your tourist visa for 90 more days for a fee of 100 US$ . In detail : It is possible to extend your tourist visa once for another 90 days . To do so you have to go to an Extranjeria ( Foreigners Office ) before your visa expires but within the last 30 days of your visa ( it is possible to go on the very last day but try to avoid it ! ) To find your nearest Extranjeria go to <URL> and scroll down to " En regiones " . You 'll have to take your passport and the Tarjeta de Turismo ( Tourist card ) , that you got when you entered the country from the PDI . You may have to present a photocopy of both documents ( I never had to ) . I advice you to get to the Extranjeria very early ( before they open ) as usually people queue up and they may only attend to a certain number of people each day ( for example 80 in La Serena ) . After taking your data you will be issued a paper in order to pay 100 US$ . You will pay this in local currency ( at the moment about Ch $ 70,000 ) at any bank ( not the Extranjeria itself ! ) . They will retain your Tarjeta de Turismo . You can collect your extended visa usually about a week later , presenting proof of payment ( the stamped paper ) . Ask how long it will take ! Anyway , it is not strictly necessary to collect your visa extension within the expiration period of your tourist visa . I advice to go at least one day later than advertised by the Extranjeria staff as your visa extension may still be filed in inaccessible parts of their system . Yes , Chilean bureaucracy is not the most efficient ... Do n't be surprised if they just hand you back your Tarjeta de Turismo with a handwritten slip of paper stapled to it . Some other points : If you overstayed your visa you have to go to the Policía de Investigaciones ( PDI ) first . You should be able to speak an intermediate level of Spanish as the staff will most likely not speak English ! The procedure may vary slightly from region to region and probably in Santiago , check the <URL> and take a copy of your passport and Tarjeta de Turismo just in case . The alternative to extending the visa is to leave the country . I advice to stay at least one day outside of Chile as I heart several stories about people being uncomfortably questioned when returning the very same day . If you plan to leave the country do so with anticipation ! The weather can be rough and routes to neighbouring countries close very frequently especially during winter time . Attempt to leave the country at least one week before the visa expires . An expired tourist visa is not a dramatic thing . You may have to pay a small fine ( or it may be waived ) but it is a bureaucratic hassle , especially if you do n't speak Spanish . More here : <URL> You can ask for another extension of the tourist visa after having re-entered Chile , essentially only having to leave the country every 180 days . I have done this for 1,5 years without any question from the authorities whatsoever . I do not recommend to leave the country instead of asking for an extension to the tourist visa . It is next to impossible to leave Chile and re-enter on a budget of 100 US$ and you will loose time also ( unless you would like to visit a neigbouring country ) . Chilean migration procedures are quite time-consuming but Chile is surprisingly open to tourists moving across the borders as often as they please , in my experience ! The latter is worth stressing ! Depending on your nationality you might get a more negative impression , especially if you are from Bolivia , Peru or Colombia ( based on talk overheard while waiting for hours in offices of the Extranjeria ) .
There are restrictions on importing left hand drive vehicles into New Zealand . It is unlikely that you would be able to purchase a new caravan overseas and successfully import it . From <URL> : Are there restrictions on LHD vehicles ? Yes . Most left-hand drive vehicles have to be converted to right-hand drive ( RHD ) before they can be driven on New Zealand roads . For modern vehicles , this is either very expensive or impractical -- especially if the vehicle has a modern frontal impact protection system ( eg airbags and crumple zones ) . The only vehicles that can be registered as LHD and driven on New Zealand roads are those that belong to one of the specific categories of LHD that are permitted by law . Before going to the expense of importing a LHD vehicle , you should check very carefully that your vehicle is either belongs to one of the permitted categories or is capable of being converted to RHD . Otherwise , you may find it impossible to use the vehicle on New Zealand roads . Additionally , New Zealand Customs has an information page on <URL> . There are concessions on taxes for residents importing certain vehicles , which would imply that non-residents may still be permitted to import such vehicles but are not eligible for the concessions . <URL> indicates that motorhomes attract both 15 % GST plus an additional 10 % duty . If you intend to take your vehicle with you when you leave , Customs states : Temporary entry -- tourist motor vehicles If you are a tourist you may import a motor vehicle into New Zealand without payment of Customs charges , provided your intention is to take the vehicle out of New Zealand at the conclusion of your visit . However , even in this case you would still be required to properly register the vehicle with NZTA for use on New Zealand roads . You would almost certainly be better off buying a ( used ? ) caravan in New Zealand and selling it when you are done . This will likely be considerably less expensive and time-consuming than attempting to import a vehicle . ( Even if you were to successfully import a vehicle , you may not be able to use it for weeks or months as it passes through customs , biosecurity , licensing paperwork , and so on . )
end question
start question
What is the difference between folio and invoice in hotel management ?
A folio is a list of your charges . For example , phone calls , minibar , laundry services , room service , valet , etc. anything that is billed to your room . Hotels maintain separate folios , typical ones are : Guest Staff Master ( assigned for group accounts ; for example a tour group consisting of multiple guests ) Non-guest ( assigned for other services ; for example the valet service might be outsourced to a third party , etc. ) They are mainly used for accounting and to separate charges for easy tax purposes . The invoice in hospitality is no different than an invoice for any other good or service - it is simply proof of how much you have paid and against/for what ( good or service ) . As soon as you check in , a folio is opened for your room . All services tendered are recorded here , but when you come to checkout - only the billable services are recorded as part of your invoice . So , if in-room wifi or an airport shuttle is free for your room type , then these charges are still recorded in the folio , but are not part of your invoice . They are recorded in the folio because at the end , the hotel has to balance those charges .
It is indeed difficult to find information about this if you ca n't read Japanese or Korean . Most ferries are passengers only . I ended up asking a friend in Japan : There is at least one car ferry between Busan ( Korea ) and Fukuoka ( Japan ) run by <URL> . The information I got says that the cheapest room category is included in the car price , but for the driver only . This means that at least for this ferry , additional car passengers have to pay extra . Whether that additional fee is the same as the single passenger fare I do n't know . Also this does n't mean there are no other companies out there with different conditions but I pretty much doubt that . The question to ask would be ' Are there any ferries in the world that charge per car including all passengers ? ' Edit : My second source in Fukuoka came back to me : There is another ferry between Busan and Shimonoseki operated by ' <URL> ' . Again it seems you have to pay by passenger . Also for the ferry from Busan to Fukuoka you have to buy a return ticket for your car . There are no one-way tickets available . This should n't concern any hitch-hikers though .
Although in everyday usage they are interchangeable , they refer to two entirely different concepts : direct flight denotes any routing between two points with a single flight number , with one or more stops along the way . For example , United 803 flies IAD-BKK via NRT . nonstop flight denotes air travel between two points with no scheduled intermediate stops . For example , United 645 is JFK-SFO with no stops . In the past , a direct flight usually involved a single aircraft making multiple stops , in contrast to a connecting flight , in which you would leave one flight for another on a different aircraft . In the present , however , any such distinction is gone . United 951 ostensibly operates BRU-IAD-ORD , but you will not be on the same aircraft -- there will be a " change of gauge " at IAD just as if it were an ordinary connecting flight . Direct flights are tricky for frequent flyers . For one , most airlines compute your frequent flyer mileage based on distinct flight numbers , not on distinct flight segments . For flying BRU-IAD-ORD , you 'd expect to be awarded 3893 miles for BRU-IAD and another 589 for IAD-ORD for a total of 4482 ; however , if you fly " direct " on UA951 , you will receive only 4160 , as if you had taken the nonstop . Another problem is in clearing upgrades . The BRU-IAD segment may have an upgrade available , whereas the IAD-ORD segment is sold out ; however , you will not be given the upgrade because space must be available on the entire BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary . If you had flown the identical BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary but with two different flight numbers , you would have received the full mileage as well as the transatlantic upgrade . Why do airlines continue to market direct flights ? For the same reason they market codeshares : to make it seem as if they have service where they do not . Because such flights used to be on a single aircraft , the reservations systems weighted them as more preferable : request flights between two cities and they would return nonstops at the top , then direct , then connections . Since travel agents tended to pick flights that appear at the top of results , an airline offering a direct flight would likely get more sales than another which offered the identical itinerary as a connecting flight .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
It turns out that the ever great <URL> has a great page on <URL> that covers this very thing . If you really want to , you can take the Lille Metro between the two stations . It 's just one stop , journey time measured in 10s of seconds , plus the wait for trains ! If you have a through SNCF ticket , the <URL> , otherwise it 's $ 1.40 for a ticket . ( It 's not clear from the SNCF website if only through tickets count for free transfer , or any from the other station , but there are no barriers if you did decide to chance it ... ) There are lifts at both ends , but they 're not always that easy to spot , or there are escalators for most but not all of the way . Alternately , it 's a short and mostly covered walk . Between the two stations is the <URL> , which features some interesting modern architecture and sculptures that 's worth a look . There 's also often some other artwork around , eg currently there 's an installation piece on the pond by Lille Europe . The walk is about 400m , and takes about 5 minutes without luggage . It 's fairly well signposted , and from both stations you can see the other . From Lille Flanders , take the signposted exit from near the end of platform 8 . Cross the little plaza by the taxi rank , and walk along the edge of the Euralille shopping center . Walk to the right of the bridge , down the slope past the artwork , up the escallators and into Lille Europe station . From Lille Europe , follow the signs for Lille Flanders , and exit half way along the platform . Down the escallators , and walk up towards Euralille . Cross the plaza in front of Lille Flanders station , and you 're there ! If it 's raining , you can do most of the route under cover by walking through the Euralille shopping center for much of it . If it 's raining very heavily , you can miss the outside bit near Lille Flanders descending to the metro , then walking along the subway tunnel that links Lille Flanders Metro with Euralille .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
It 's been a while since I visited Cyprus . But I doubt things have gotten worse ; There are only a few border crossings , but crossing the border is quite painless , though the setting might resemble crossing from East to West Berlin before German unification . Public transport , on both sides , was limited when I was there . It should be possible to take a rental car from South to North . If you 're only two people , you could consider renting a scooter instead . There 's plenty to see in terms of history , but most tourists come for the beaches and visit the sights on organised tours . But , the road system ( in the south ) is excellent and , with your own transport , it 's easy to get around and visit the sights yourself .
<URL> runs a shuttle between Disney and Universal - but if there are more than three in your group it is almost always less expensive to take a metered taxi . ( Up to seven can ride for the price of one , depending on the vehicle ) . You can ask for an estimate of the fare before accepting the taxi . Looking around online , <URL> it 'll be about $ 30 one-way between the two locations . <URL> for $ 2.00 , but note that it 'll take considerably longer ( 1.25 hours vs 17-20 min ) , and you probably want to maximise your time at the parks :)
Munich native again . Of course all tents serve typical Bavarian food . The food can be roughly divided into two categories : warm dishes and proper starters/desserts as served in any Bavarian restaurant and Brotzeit , a German/Bavarian classic consisting of bread or Brezn ( pretzel ) with various spreads , hearty toppings and often accompanied by some kind of radish . Many tents serve special dishes matching their motto . Such as different Ox dishes in the Ochsenbraterei , Steckerlfisch ( fish on a stick ) at Fischers Vroni , grilled ducks at the Entenbraterei and Knödel ( dunmplings ) at the Knödelei . Just to mention some of them . Besides those special dishes you should always get Hendl ( grilled chicken ) and Schweinsbraten ( roast pork ) as warm dishes . Prices vary by time of day : there are special deals for lunch , while dinner is certainly more expensive . For lunch you can calculate with deals starting at about 10 $ while warm dinner ranges from 15 to 25 Euros . Brotzeit is also priced around 10 $ . Of course the sky is the limit and you 'll also find dishes on the menu with significant higher prices . All tents do also serve vegetarian dishes often priced between 10 and 15 Euros . But the real Schmankerl ( delicacies ) are typically not vegetarian . You might instead want to try a sweet course as a main dish . The Austrian influence is strong in this area and results in great dishes . Some menus from last year can be found here ( not all containig prices and none in English ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> And yes , the beer price has surpassed the 10 $ barrier . A Bediengeld ( the waitress share ) is already included , but additional tipping is still expected !
Looked in the Chilean Ministry of Tourism site and they have a <URL> where you can search for campings in specific regions os cities . Besides that I search the Google and found some others like <URL> which seems a good source , even though I ca n't be sure of how accurate it is . Mind that Chile is a country with many volcanoes and they may affect your camping plans . Be sure to check <URL> for updates on volcanoes activities .
Buses are leaving from the Ortachala bus station 4 buses a week 20 Lari from Tbilisi to Baku Source : <URL> For times and confirmation of the service , I would still go over to the bus station . The <URL> also mentions buses from Marneuli ( 30km south of Tbilisi ) to Baku .
Taking Complimentaries Home I would say that it all boils down to how cheap you want to look , in the eyes of the hotel management . If you do n't care , and probably you should n't , then there are some things you can take with you upon check-out . Taking Consumables As a general rule I would say : you can take anything that is single-serving . For the purpose of this answer , the definition of single-serving includes anything that , if opened/used , can not be re-used by the next guest . Hence an incomplete list would include : soap bars , shampoos , sewing kits , shaving sets , shower caps , slippers , shoe buffing kits , chocolates , etc. . Most of these items are often prey of serial collectors , in particular shampoo bottles and slippers . Hotel rooms often also include branded material like pens , pencils , notepads , postcards , and the like . These can be considered as marketing material . Every time you use the hotel 's pen , for example , you will indirectly be advertising the brand . It is probably safe to assume that the hotel management will be OK with you taking such items with you when you leave . The mini-bar is a completely different story . You can safely assume that anything in the mini-bar will be chargeable . Some hotels however offer complimentary water bottles to their guests . When in doubt , ask . Recycling Plastic Toiletry Containers You could also be fighting the recycling crusade , and using your ecological struggle within to justify yourself when taking shampoo bottles . According to <URL> : I was shocked to learn that the vast majority of hotels in the US have no recycling program , meaning that untold millions of these plastic bottles end up in landfills each year . Leave Towels , Linen , and Furniture However , you can not take anything that is not single-serving . This includes towels , bathrobes , coat hangers , sheets , pillow cases , etc. . Towels and linen can be washed and re-used by other guests . Taking them would be considered stealing . You can not of course take anything that is part of the furniture , or the design of the room . <URL>
If you 're using a booking engine such as <URL> , the rule of thumb says that the earlier the better , while it 's possible that later on some hotels will offer campaign prices , or as you mentioned , you might catch some last-minute deals . Those are exceptions though , you should not hope for a significant save over a reservation booked well in advance . My suggestion is , in case you 're certain about the travel dates , make your reservations as early as possible on the options with free cancellation , then later on check the website regularly to see whether it 'd be beneficial to change your reservation . Mostly though , this will not result in a significant financial gain , rather finding better or more suitable hotels in the same price range .
For a quick summary , there 's <URL> which covers quite a bit in a compact fashion . If you want the full details , your best bet is the <URL> . On the ground , the main differences are : Dedicated checkin lines ( outstations ) and checkin area ( Heathrow / JFK ) , with quicker queues than Club World More baggage ( 3 bags of up to 32kg each ! ) Escorts through security at the " more chaotic " outstations Nicer lounge almost everywhere , generally with self-pour champagne and some menu ordering of food Very nice lounges ( Concorde Club Room ) in Heathrow and JFK , which are basically a half decent restaurant ( menus , proper tables , service etc ) You can book into the Elemis travel spa in advance ( Heathrow/JFK ) Quick entry to the lounge after security ( Heathrow ) , avoiding the need to traipse through the shops to get to the lounge You can bring one guest into the lounge with you ( business it 's just yourself ) Nicer welcome drink on board YouFirst In the air : Larger seat Buddy seat , so two of you can sit together to talk/eat When you turn your seat into a bed , they 'll add a little extra mattress , and make it up into a bed with a duvet Pyjamas Dine when you want - you can eat any time , not just set meal times More attentive service ( better crew / passenger ratios ) Bigger AVOD screens " Loo with a view " - front toilet has a window that can be toggled between clear and opaque , so you can look out while flying You might find <URL> worth a read , it explains more on maximising your use / benefit of the above .
If the flush mechanism does n't work Flush manually : In fact in many developing countries or even elsewhere such as out in the bush you can find modern toilets without running water . All you need to do is find a large container , fill at as full as you can manage , and pour it into the bowl . The faster you poor and from the greater height the better . But start slow and low because if you are too aggressive you can cause icky splashing . The mechanism is often easy to fix : Take the lid off the cistern . Be careful if it 's ceramic it will be heavy . You can break it or your toe if you drop it . There is usually a string , wire , or chain connecting some kind of lever , float , and rubber seal . Often this gets caught on something causing the plug not to reach the seal or not to close it fully . Sometimes the string , wire , or chain has come loose from one end and can be reattached without any special tools . Sometimes it can help to bend the arm the float is attached to for fine adjustments if the plug almost reaches the seal but not quite . If the bowl is blocked See if there is a plunger near the toilet or in a cupboard . If your 5-star hotel has a kitchenette and there 's a plunger there but not in the toilet , then maybe throw it away after cleaning up , or at least leave it in the toilet room . If there is no plunger to be found then the " manual flush " method above may be stronger than the built-in flush if you can drop in a lot of water at once from a great enough height without making a mess . This is much safer in " low water " toilets than with the " high water " toilets typically found in North America . Let it soak and come back from time to time when the water level has gone down and flush again . Again be careful with " high water " toilets as in North America - they are notorious for overflowing in such conditions . If you are a man , aim your stream at the obstacle each time you go . This will break it up . These techniques are hampered if you used too much toilet paper . If you are in a country where you do n't know the language , get online and look up the local words for " hardware store " and " plunger " . In my experience the latter can be quite tricky . I was in this situation once in Berlin , found at least half a dozen words for " plunger " , most of which must 've been regional words only known to people in other parts of the German-speaking world ! I also could n't find a hardware store and could n't find a plunger in a discount store . ( Lidl style or 1-euro-shop style ) DO NOT USE DRANO !! Caustic pipe un-blocking products are not intended for use with toilets . They can melt the wax used to seal the ceramic toilet to the pipes . You can create a far worse situation this way . ( Non-caustic products should be fine though . ) If all else fails You can use this situation to work on your problems of finding natural bodily functions embarrassing . Go tell somebody working at the hotel . If it 's a 5-star hotel they specialize in being discreet about far far worse things their guests might do . If you can not bring yourself to overcome this personality defect then you can leave an apology note somewhere the housekeepers will find it before finding the surprise you left them . You can even include a tip . The housekeepers have definitely dealt with this situation and much worse before . If you just leave it they are pretty used to that .
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
The main difference between Tatkal and Premium Tatkal is that Premium Tatkal is an Online Only service . According to <URL> Passengers can book premium Tatkal tickets online only on the pattern of airline fares - more the demand , higher the fare . According to a Railway Board official , premium Tatkal tickets are dynamically priced like air fares . The minimum premium fare is the basic train fare plus Tatkal charges , which vary from 10 % to 30 % depending on the class of travel , he said , adding the maximum limit for booking premium Tatkal ticket is 30 % of the base fare or Rs400 , whichever is higher .
Protected Areas Internationally speaking , both natural parks and natural monuments are defined as protected areas , which , according to <URL> , means : A protected area is a clearly defined geographical space , recognised , dedicated and managed , through legal or other effective means , to achieve the long term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values . The ICUN states that this is the most widely used definition internationally . Indeed , any protected area listed on the <URL> must comply with it . Regulatory Categories Moreover , the <URL> , in which we can find natural parks and natural monuments : Category Ia -- Strict Nature Reserve Category Ib -- Wilderness Area Category II -- National Park Category III -- Natural Monument or Feature Category IV -- Habitat/Species Management Area Category V -- Protected Landscape/Seascape Category VI -- Protected Area with sustainable use of natural resources These categorical distinctions provide guidelines to the purpose and regulation to be applied to different areas . Quoting from the ICUN website : II : National Park Similar to the objectives of Wilderness Areas , National Parks provide protection for functioning ecosystems , but tend to be more lenient with human visitation and the supporting infrastructure . National Parks are managed in a way that may contribute to local economies through promoting educational and recreational tourism on a scale that will not reduce the effectiveness of conservation efforts . The surrounding areas of a National Park may be for consumptive or non-consumptive use , but should nevertheless act as a barrier for the defence of the protected area 's native species and communities to enable them to remain sustainable in the long term . III : Natural Monument or Feature These are comparatively smaller areas that are specifically allocated to protect a natural monument and its surrounding habitats . Natural Monuments or Features can be natural in the wholest sense , or include elements that have been influenced or introduced by humans . The latter should hold biodiversity associations or could otherwise be classified as a historical or spiritual site , though this distinction can be quite difficult to ascertain . As such , The classification then falls into two subcategories , those in which the biodiversity in uniquely related to the conditions of the natural feature , and those in which the current levels of biodiversity are dependent on the presence of the sacred sites that have created an essentially modified ecosystem . Natural Monuments or Features have a high cultural or spiritual value which can be utilised to gain support for conservation challenges . USA National Monuments and Parks <URL> , in the USA the difference between a national park and a national monument lie in the fact that the former can be declared by the President of the USA , without him having to seek the approval of Congress . In terms of the general general regulatory differences between monuments and parks in the USA , I think that a a single answer can not be formulated . This is partly due to the fact that protected areas in the USA are not managed by a single entity . Indeed some are county - , other are state-managed . Moreover , some protected areas are used for commercial exploitation . <URL> Bottom line is that different areas have different rules , so always check in advance . As a final thought I would say that the USA regulations tend to follow the guidelines set by the ICUN . For example , this is true for national parks , which are often not only open to tourists but also " exploitable " ( fishing , camping , etc. ) .
As a native Londoner : The weather in the UK is notoriously variable , so the only way to know for sure is to check nearer the time . But it 's likely to be around freezing , maybe as low as -10 C or as high as +10 C. I would certainly bring some warm clothes . Snow is possible , but does n't happen every year . If the weather is very cold or snowy , prepare for potential public transport delays . London is normally dressed up for Christmas , yes . You should find Piccadilly Circus/Oxford Street in particular will have Christmas decorations up . Depending on how close it is to Christmas , prepare for potential crowding in some popular tourist areas ( e.g. Oxford Street is often busy ) . London has a lovely atmosphere around Christmas , though . Hope you enjoy your trip ! Like all enormous cities , plenty will be happening . <URL> is a good place to look for events / restaurants / etc. .
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
end question
