start question
35-40 minute layover at LaGuardia - Possible ?
Are your segments on the same ticket , or separate ? If the latter , I would not risk it . You would have no protections if you miss the connection ; all other flights may be sold out or you might need to purchase a new ticket at full price . I do not know how Delta is about LGA these days since the slot swap with US Airways , but in the past they rather discouraged connecting there . The biggest concern I would have is that Delta uses three different terminals at LGA . Delta Shuttle flies out of the Marine Air Terminal ( terminal A ) , Delta Connection/Comair flies out of terminal D , and Delta mainline uses both terminals C and D . There are airside buses ( exiting security , walking/airport shuttle , and re-clearing is not practical here ) , but these run only every 10-15 minutes at peak times , and the ride from A to D is a good 15 minutes itself . That makes a 35-minute connection stressful to say the least . I would look over several days ' worth of flights to see where your typical arriving and departing gates would be . The concourses in terminals A , C , and D are relatively short , so if both of your segments are in the same terminal , 35 minutes at 8am on a Thursday is not unreasonable -- though I would have a plan if things do n't work out . On the bright side , airlines do build in standard minimum connection times into their booking engines ; they have no incentive to strand passengers at hubs . You have a better chance of good weather in October than in January or July . Also , congestion-related delays ( most delays at LGA are related to congestion ) tend to stack up over the course of the day . An 8am flight is relatively early , so not much congestion should have built up . On the other hand , as the saying goes , your mileage may vary . Gate changes happen all the time . The connection timetables are ambitious for people with lots of luggage or who walk very slowly . And LGA is a highly congested airport ; even after landing , it often takes a few minutes for a gate to open up . So research when the next connection to your destination would be , keep your cell phone charged , and if there are any problems with your flight to LGA , be proactive in talking to an agent ( phone , gate , club ) about the potential misconnect .
Assuming you arrive in the domestic terminal and leave from the international one , I would first go over there and try to check in early , just to get that out of the way . It is always risky to leave the airport and get into suburban traffic when you have to catch another flight , especially an international one . Your time is limited and I would n't spend too much of it in downtown . However even getting there is interesting enough . I would suggest just taking the <URL> from O'Hare to Clark/Lake ( 1h ) , then go up and change into the <URL> , this is an elevated train ' The L' that goes around the loop , so you have some views over downtown Chicago . Get off at Washington/Wells and walk back to Clark/Lake ( 5 blocks ) to get back on the Blue line to O'Hare ( 1h ) . With only 2.5 hours to spend , this is a very tight schedule . Photo credit : <URL> To make things worse , the Blue line leaves from near terminal 2 , to get there to/from terminal 5 takes at least 15 minutes each . I would only try this , if you had checked in already , so that when getting back to the airport you would only need to go through security and to the gate , meaning you do n't have to be back at 11:30 but maybe at 12:00 or even 12:30 . It would be easier if you could check in through to Tokyo in Boston and do n't have to worry about luggage and checkin in O'Hare . You could also not go downtown , but just look around one of the West Side neighborhoods for a short while . Just take the Blue line to Belmont or Logan Square , spend some time there and then go back . There is nothing too special there , but you can get a feel for Chicago outside of the loop .
You may qualify for " <URL> " , which would provide you meals , accommodation , transporation , if your itinerary matches certain conditions ( layover length between 8 and 24 hours , no better connections available and there are a few more limitations ) . If your booking does qualify , then you should see it as an option on Emirates website under " Manage your booking " .
It is possible to do a few sightseeing during that amount of time . Qutub Minar is the nearest attraction from Delhi Airport ( opening hours 7AM -- 5PM ) . You can reach there in a 50-60 minutes cab ride ( there is no direct Metro line ) . You can also also visit India Gate . Along with India Gate you can cover Parliament House , Rashtrapati Bhavan , and Connaught Place . Easiest way to reach this places will be to take <URL> ( On the Airport Express line to New Delhi Station , then on Yellow line to Central Secretariat station ) . I would suggest you start your sightseeing in Connaught Place ( reach by metro at Rajiv Chowk station , two station before Central Secretariat ) , then take a cab/auto to India Gate ( Parliament House and Rashtrapati Bhavan are near to India Gate ) , then take Metro to Qutub Minar ( Qutub Minar Station at Yellow line ) , then take a cab ride back to Airport .
Cheap international air tickets are generally not refundable . You will get some airport taxes back ( probably less than 100 USD ) minus an administration fee . Alternatively you might get a voucher that you can use towards a future flight on the same airline . It depends on how you buy the ticket . As a rule of thumb a fully refundable ticket will be about three times the price of the cheapest ticket you can find . Some airlines will let you change your ticket to a future date , but only if you tell them before the flight . Ten days is not last minute . Last minute is when you arrange your flight in the taxi to the airport . Anyway , ten days before I would expect the price of MCI-RIX-MCI to be about 1000 USD ( in economy class ) , providing your stay includes a Saturday night . Such a ticket is considered a deep discount advance purchase fare and remains unrefundable . In your shoes I would definitely purchase the ticket after I received the visa .
I have transited through vienna around 15 times and happy to give you some tips on what to see during your 6 hour layoff . St.Stephens Platz church ( start here . Its the city centre walk around for 2h you will see viennese operas , palace and shopping streets around . If you like cakes be sure to taste Sacher torta ( shop not far from main opera ) Schonbrunn palace ( takes 2h minimum really nice with museum and zoo ! ) Museum Quartier ( walk around open space inside people will be chilling out in summer , of course if you are museum fan this is great ) . From Museum Quartier try to explore long shopping street Mariahilfer strasse ( takes about 1 h ) " Hundertwasserhaus " is a very unique beautiful designed apartment houses worth a visit . Vienna is very well connected by excellent metro system . All the places i mentioned above can be explored through metro/tram lines saving you time . Last but not the least , have a coffee in viennese style . They will always serve coffee with a small glass of water to drink after the coffee ( which i love it ) .
Updates now state that the MLNA has given up on the Azawadian independence : <URL> <URL> After renewed fighting has pushed much of the MLNA into other battles , as well as the African Union refusing to accept it , it would appear that it 's a lost cause , and is viewed on Wikipedia as a ' former ' rogue state . This negates much of the political travel problems , however the problems of entering a war-torn zone still pose much trouble and danger .
One of the few ( or rather the only ) explanation I can find on the " Set number " is from <URL> Another number which appears on the train is the " set number " . This is displayed at each end of the train to identify its duty in the timetable . The number is set up by the crew preparing the train for service and it is retained by that train as long as it works that particular path in the timetable for that day . It provides a useful means of quickly identifying trains and is used whenever reference made to particular service trains . So long story short it 's a train number like <URL> basically identifying the route the train is running today including line and schedule , though if you feel like a project you can take a look at <URL> to figure it out . <URL>
For international flights I usually try to be at the airport 2-3h before departure . So adding approx . 45min for EWR - Manhattan and approx . 45min for Manhattan - JFK , there would n't be much time left for to eat anything besides a quick meal in McDonald 's .
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
Hotels , like most travel services , work very much on a supply-and-demand basis . If the demand is high , then prices will go up , and eventually hotels will sell out even at the higher prices . If the demand is low , prices do sometimes come down over time - although frequently the hotels themselves will not want to drop their prices below a certain level , which is where opaque bookings like Hotwire/Priceline come in , selling the hotels excess inventory depending on how many free rooms they have . Priceline/Hotwire prices definitely do vary significantly night-to-night for the same properly , based primarily on the hotels expected occupancy rates . This means that as the date gets closer , the price may drop , but it may also rise or even not be available at all . Depending on the size of the event you 're attending it 's even possible that it will have an impact on the number of rooms available - frequently it 's difficult to find any rooms available in an area , let alone cheap rooms , if there is a major conference/sporting event/etc occurring at the time . As the event gets closer , room availability gets lower , prices get higher , and opaque booking venders end up getting allocated zero rooms to sell ! If you must have a hotel , it 's often a good idea to find somewhere with a good cancellation policy ( eg , allowing you to cancel up until at least a day or two before the event ) - this gives you the certainty of having somewhere to stay if prices go up , but also allows you to keep looking/bidding for cheaper rooms as the date gets closer . If you find somewhere cheaper , simply cancel your initial reservation !
The simple answer is , it depends ! Each airline , and even sometimes each airport , will have different rules about what is and is not allowed . As a general rule , most airlines will NOT automatically check your luggage through for an overnight connection . You will normally need collect your luggage when you land , and re-check it the following morning . This is normally a good thing as it allows you access to your luggage for your overnight stay . However this is not true for all airlines - some WILL check your luggage through , especially for short overnight stays ( eg , arrive 11:30 pm , depart 5:30 am ) . The only way to find out exactly what they are going to do is to ask the airline , and even then you might find that when you get to the airport they proceed to do something different anyway ! If you want access to your luggage at the stopover point then basically all airlines will honor such a request at check-in . This is called " short-checking " , and although not all airlines will do it in a general sense , they all should for an overnight layover . If you want them to keep your luggage overnight , then it may be a bit more of a struggle . Some airlines , and even some airports , have policies that they simply will not do this - so whilst you can ask , be ready for a refusal . The one time you may be able to talk them into doing this where they otherwise refuse is if you are not able to go through passport control at the connecting country ( eg , you do n't have a visa ) , in which case you will not be able collect your luggage - in this case they may be more willing to check it all the way through , however I would not bet on this always being successful .
Short answer : if both flights have the same flight number , you are probably staying on the same plane . If the flight number changes , you are connecting to a different aircraft . Alternate answer : if the airline told you what city you are changing in and told you what time you land and take off in that city , you are connecting to a different aircraft . In the circumstance where you are staying on the same aircraft , they usually just tell you that your plane will be making a stop , without telling you where or when . This is true 97 % of the time . Rarely , the airline messes around with flight numbers , sometimes to disguise a connection as a direct flight , and this rule does n't hold . See also : <URL>
When I was last at T3 in Dubai , the terminal did have free wi-fi but it was excruciatingly slow . Boingo hotspots are present in all terminals in Dubai International Airport . <URL> . <URL> : <URL> : For a more long term option , and if you are a frequent traveller , consider purchasing a data stick from your home country that you could use in Dubai . If you travel to Dubai often , consider purchasing a data stick from one of the two ISP 's : <URL> and <URL> .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
Any question about staying overnight at an airport can usually be answered by consulting the comprehensive <URL> website . It 's probably best to read the reviews on that site to see the experiences of previous passengers there . Since you 're arriving from an international flight , you will have to clear security , re-check your luggage if you have any , and you may or may not be allowed through security for your flight the next day . I suspect you wo n't be allowed through but ca n't confirm that . If there has been disruption , apparently the airport sets up cots for passengers . If not , you will have to find a bench or quiet corner to sleep . If you can afford it , you 'll obviously be a lot more comfortable in a hotel . Looking on google maps for hotels near the airport , there seem to be reasonably inexpensive hotels nearby in the order of $ 80 - $ 100 .
It depends on a number of factors , but I 'd say that the odds of you making this connection is very low . 85 minutes just is n't realistic for such a connection in most cases at SFO . UA862 from HKG hits SFO right on peak hour . In the hour before it lands there are at least 5 other flights arriving at the same terminal , and feeding into the same immigration area - all of them widebody aircraft generally carrying 300 + people each . If you are entering the US using the Visa Waiver Program , and if you have entered the US on the same passport in the past ~ 8 years , then you can use the APC kiosks instead of the normal immigration lines - but even that could be a 20-30 minute wait at that time of day . If you have to line up in the visitor line , then it could be anywhere from 10 minutes ( if your flight happens to land first of all of the other flights , which is extremely unlikely as it 's scheduled to land last ! ) up to over an hour . Your bags will likely not be an issue - by the time you get through immigration they will most likely already be ready . Presuming no issues , collecting your bags , going through immigration , and dropping off your bags again should take no more than about 5-10 minutes , then another 5 minutes to get to security in the domestic terminal . Security in the domestic terminal will depend on the day of the week , but at that time of day , for someone without TSA PreCheck and without ' priority ' , will probably take somewhere between 20-30 minutes , although could be more or less . And then finally , United Airlines requires you to be at the gate 15 minutes before departure . If you are not there at that time , they can ( and will ) off-load you and give your seat to someone else - especially on flights like SFO-IAD where there is normally a long standby list . So your 85 minutes is really only 70 minutes . I wo n't say that this connection is impossible - if the stars all happen to line up perfectly then it 's doable . But odds are you 're not going to make it . If that happens , United will put you on a later flight - but keep in mind that could be many , many hours later . There SFO-IAD flights generally run very full , so there may not be seats available until much later in the day , or even the next day .
Nate is correct , because the Galley is loaded from the right ( and on a 737 is on the right hand side ( centre for bigger planes ) Page 6 of the <URL> PDF shows Boeing 747 design specs and how a plane is serviced while on the ground under normal circumstances . You 'll notice that the cargo is also loaded on the right hand therefore if a plane was being unloaded via stairs it would create a substantial hazard .
Google will find the <URL> and tell you that it closes at 6.30 pm At other times the trip is possible in that amount of time , but busyness depends on time and season . You can reach the monastery and the Big Buddha without going up the cable car , but I do n't know how long it takes to drive there .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
end question
start question
Should i purchase train tickets between Milan Malpensa Airport and Florence on the day or book them in advance ?
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
The general ( worldwide ) trend is probably to extend VOA but since visa rules are in a constant state of flux buying a visa from a Consulate should provide some reassurance that you wo n't be declined boarding due to the withdrawal of a VOA facility . VOAs can be cheaper than visas via Consulates which are easy money , so not promoted as heavily ( eg by visa agencies ) -- may account for some of your ( understandable ! ) confusion . Tanzania however is not trying to discourage tourists and the fees are the same either way ( <URL> for a German citizen ) . Waits seem to vary roughly <URL> so if on a very tight timescale via Consulate might get you out of the airport a little sooner . Note that Tanzania are fussy about the age and condition of notes if paying in USD -- not an issue is buying the visa at a Consulate . Also that VOAs for Tanzania are only valid for arrival at certain <URL> . Elsewhere there is no VOA option . <URL> . <URL>
<URL> ! Enter in the ' from ' part , eg , LON ( London , any airport ) is what I used to put when I lived there . Delete the ' to ' part , leaving it blank . Select the dates you require , from and to . Click search . It will then display a list of countries by price . Select the country of choice , and it 'll show cities in that country , by price . This is often how I 'd pick my next trip in Europe :)
Cheap international air tickets are generally not refundable . You will get some airport taxes back ( probably less than 100 USD ) minus an administration fee . Alternatively you might get a voucher that you can use towards a future flight on the same airline . It depends on how you buy the ticket . As a rule of thumb a fully refundable ticket will be about three times the price of the cheapest ticket you can find . Some airlines will let you change your ticket to a future date , but only if you tell them before the flight . Ten days is not last minute . Last minute is when you arrange your flight in the taxi to the airport . Anyway , ten days before I would expect the price of MCI-RIX-MCI to be about 1000 USD ( in economy class ) , providing your stay includes a Saturday night . Such a ticket is considered a deep discount advance purchase fare and remains unrefundable . In your shoes I would definitely purchase the ticket after I received the visa .
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
Yes , just apply for it with a few days buffer either side . I 've done this twice . The first time I entered as expected as it was very much a holiday . The second time I was travelling up Finland to the arctic circle , and then crossing there . The buses from Rovaniemi were not every day , so I ended up bussing to Ivalo , and then to Murmansk , getting there a couple of days later than planned . The only confusion at the border was that I was a Kiwi arriving on a Russian bus company from somewhere in Finland . And on a Russian business visa . But once the border guy was over that , there were no problems . Point is , I arrived a couple of days into the period my visa was valid for . And there is no problem with that - it 's just a maximum period of validity , not a fixed arrival/exit date . All websites will tell you - DO NOT book flights before applying for the visa , in case you do n't get it . However if you want to in order to save money , you might still consider doing it - I certainly did the first time . It 's a calculated risk , if you 're going as a tourist , have no criminal issues or problems that may give them problems with giving you a visa , have an invite and have travel insurance , there 's very little theoretical chance of them denying you . However , stranger things have happened . Personally I never book accommodation more than a few days in advance - which has caused me some grief ( I got the very last bed at the hostel I 'm staying at in Seattle this weekend ) , but one thing to be aware of with Russia is that they often ask where you 're staying . Last time I was n't sure , and just put the 5 biggest cities I was likely going through . That worked fine , and the cities are n't listed on your actual visa . If you 're worried and are happy with hostels , you can always just book one with Hostelbookers and if you do n't get your visa , email them and cancel your booking . You only lose your 10 % deposit .
It is definitely better to book a car in advance , even in lower season . I would not take the risk of arriving there and not finding a suitable car . Moreover , when you book your car at home you can rent it through a broker . This way you will get a good price . And I have some doubts that you will find a better deal by pounding the rental desks at O.R. Tambo airport .
Not unless you are trying to rent one during a busy holiday Generally as long as the company has cars to rent , you can rent them without a reservation . Stock usually runs low during holidays , long weekends and local festival days and as such this is a time where you should reserve a car . Renting in the greater Tokyo area is usually painless but does require you have either a Japanese Drivers licence for the type of car you intend to drive ( ie . Automatic licence for Automatic , Manual licence for Manual ) or an International Drivers Licence . Some companies also expect you to get a more comprehensive insurance policy if you are on an IDL . Also , reserving a car guarantees you get whatever car you have chosen ( rather than just whatever is available on the day ) , as well as being able to chose certain plans and get online discounts with some companies . Both myself foreigner on a Japanese Licence , a foreign friend on an IDL and a Japanese friend have rented on the spot before and this is unlikely to change in the lead up to the 2020 Olympics .
Your best bet is to take the <URL> to either Milano Centrale or Milano Porta Garibaldi , and from there take a high speed train to Firenze . This can be either <URL> from Centrale , or <URL> leaving from Porta Garibaldi . All the links provided allow you to book the tickets in advance . The reason you ca n't book everything via one website is because the train lines are operated by different companies : Malpensa is a Trenord station , whilst Milano Centrale and Porta Garibaldi are both FS ( national railway company ) stations . All in all it 's always good practice to book national trains ( the various Frecce operated by Trenitalia or the various Italo routes ) in advance . The reason being that on these a seat reservation is required for each passenger . More importantly , the last minute fares tend to be very steep . Regional trains on the other hand , be it Trenord , some other local company , or any FS interregional route , sometimes do n't require a seat reservation . Hence tickets for the latter can be easily purchased on the day since you can travel without sitting down . When it comes to interregional trains however it is sometimes not possible to reserve tickets in advance ( the Malpensa Express being a notable exception to this rule ) . Since you are worried about missing train connections , note that advanced tickets for the Malpensa Express can be used up to 4 hours after the booked departure time . Trenitalia and Italo both offer exchangeable refundable ticket fares which are of course more expensive than their non-exchangeable counterpart . To avoid any bad surprises you can book the latest sensible train , say 5 hours after you land , and attempt to exchange the ticket at the station to board an earlier train , should your journey from the airport take less than expected .
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
When you meet them . You may well get " reverse omiyage " from your friend when you 're leaving , though !
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
Whenever I used to visit Montreal I 'd try to hit as many of the following as possible : The Old Port of Montreal St. Catherines street Bell Centre/new forum . Plus the old forum , it 's a lot of hockey history , and my favourite restaurant is right next door ( indeed the only St. Hubert 's I 'll go to ) Olympic Stadium , although it was more when they had a baseball team . Westmount , if you want to see some history and see how the rich folks live in Montreal . Mount Royal , has a great view of the city . Montreal casino and the Laurentians , but that 's not really in town . Really with few exceptions you ca n't really go wrong with anywhere in Montreal . It 's got a multitude of things to check out that you ca n't say about most other cities in North America . And the the restaurant and night life ? Top notch .
Booking Sri-Lankan Train Tickets Online <URL> says that to date the only tickets that are bookable online are those for the <URL> and <URL> carriages for the Colombo-Kandy-Badulla journey . The regular trains can not be booked online ( quoting from <URL> ) : How to buy tickets ... The privately-run ExpoRail &amp; Rajadhani carriages Colombo-Kandy-Badulla can be booked online at www.exporail.lk &amp; www.rajadhani.lk . The regular Sri Lanka Railways trains can not be booked online , but it 's easy to buy tickets when you get to Sri Lanka at the station . In Colombo , there is a special ticket window for tourists in the 1st &amp; 2nd class advance booking office at the east end of Colombo Fort station . Since you wish to travel on the Colombo-Kandi stretch , you 'll be able to book that part of the journey on the Rajadhani in advance . <URL> . If you 'd rather take the InterCity train , then you 'll have to go to the ticket office in person or send someone on your behalf . Also note that reservations open 45 days before departure ( quoting from <URL> ) : Reservations for trains with reserved seating such as InterCity Express trains open 45 days in advance ( extended from 10 days in late 2013 ) . Seats in the 1st class observation car from Colombo to Kandy can get fully-booked from time to time , so book a few days ahead if you can , but you may well find seats available on the day of travel . Other trains ( shown as having unreserved seats ) do n't require a reservation , you just buy a ticket on and hop on . Purchasing Tickets in Advance <URL> suggests one possible alternative to online booking : using local travel agencies . The linked site has a few agencies listed . Note that these will obviously charge a fee for the booking . <URL> This is also a valid option , which will probably require you to pay an extra fee to the hotel , or at least tip the staff . The Man also mentions this on the linked page .
Having had this problem happen to me today due to flooding , I 've discovered the answer buried at the bottom of the <URL> . If you decide that you no longer want to travel due to the disruption : Your ticket is non-refundable . However , if the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or delayed and as a result you decide not to travel a refund will be offered on completely unused tickets and you will not be charged an administration fee . If you still want to travel : If the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or is delayed and you still decide to travel , special arrangements will be made to accommodate you on another train ( although a seat can not be guaranteed ) . If you no longer want to travel , you just need to go to a ticket office with your ticket and seat reservation for the affected train , and ask for a refund . Depending on the station , it may or may not be easy to arrange , but it is possible . Alternately , you can send in a claim ( including the ticket + reservation ) as you would 've done for a long delay , but this is likely to take longer and result in a refund in rail vouchers . If you do want to travel , it 's generally best to go to the customer services desk and get them to endorse your ticket to indicate the restrictions are lifted . They can also provide advice at the same time about alternate routes . If it 's a major problem , you ought to be fine just hopping on another train , but for localised problems it 's best to get the ticket endorsed so staff on trains + stations elsewhere know immediately what happened .
TL ; DR - for almost all cases , all trains which permit seat reservations need to be with the same TOC to get a cheap deal Advanced Purchase tickets on their own are always for specific trains . When you get your ticket , it 'll have 2 + parts , one for the route , one saying what trains you have to take ( and normally your seat too ) . In some cases , the ticket will be an Advanced Purchase &amp; Connections ticket , which allows you to travel on " local " trains at one or both ends of your Advanced Purchase ticket . Not all AP tickets have a + Connections option though , and it tends to only be certain stations that it 's offered for . Next thing to know - on the backend side , there are two kinds of UK train tickets . There are ones valid on any operator , for which the <URL> shares the revenue between the different companies who 's trains you could take based on seats + trains , and ones valid for only one operator , for which on that operator gets the ticket cash . Secondly , within certain bounds , normal ticket prices between any two stations are priced by a single operator , even if multiple operators might have trains on the route . For example , Oxford to Reading is set by FGW , even though you can pick between FGW and XC trains on that route . Advanced Purchase tickets are restricted to specific trains . If all of those trains are with the same company , then that TOC can keep all the money . If it 's a with connections one , then they 'll need to share some of it , which they 'd rather not do on a cheap ticket . So , from Reading to Lancaster , you hit a problem . From Reading north to about Wolverhampton , ticket prices will be set by XC ( Cross Country ) . From Wolverhampton north , that 'll be set by VWC ( Virgin West Coast ) . For a Reading to Lancaster complete ticket , they 're also set by Virgin West Coast as <URL> . While both companies can offer Advanced Purchase tickets for the whole route , they 'll have to share the revenue for a fair bit of the ticket , so they wo n't price it so keenly , and probably wo n't release very many seats for the " &amp; Connections " . If you book a Reading to Wolverhampton AP ticket ( either on a direct train , or one with a change in Birmingham , but either way on only Cross Country trains ) , then XC will keep all the cash , so will have a good price , and a fair number of cheap tickets available . Likewise , Wolverhampton to Lancaster will be all VWC so they 'll do cheap APs . There are actually <URL> , for between # 21 and # 83.40 , but for the reasons above they 'll probably be hard to find . If you book just when tickets go on sale ( normally 90 days out ) , you might manage to snag one . Otherwise , later , you 'll find it easier to get TOC specific non-connections AP tickets with splitting at TOC boundaries , as they tend to have more seats available . Oh , and another thing to consider - an off-peak single from Reading to Lancaster via Banbury ( not via London ) is only # 49.30 , so outside of peak times you 'll need to play around a lot with AP tickets to get one cheaper than a flexible ticket !
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
New Years day is a <URL> . So yes , many places will be closed . Indeed , many shops stay closed until the 6th , with winter sales starting again on the 7th of January . This is reflected in a post on <URL> : Restaraunt wise we were amazed at how many closed over New Year . I expected some would be closed on the 1st but some were closed from the 31st till the 6th ! We did struggle to find a place to eat a couple of times and ended up having to go to one of the numerous self service restaurants which are fine but not exactly what we were looking for on holiday . and this recommendation on the same page : I live in Milan and I personally do not reccomend to spend the new year in the city . Basically there is nothing to do . Milan people usually go out of the city for new year 's eve : to ski , on the lake , in the coutryside , to visit other cities . The situation is different in the other Italian cities , like Rome or Florence . Of course many restaurant and clubs are closed , maybe is the worste day to see Milan . So long story short ( unless you have specific sites in mind , in which case I 'd check their individual websites ) , in general a lot of stuff is closed during this holiday period .
Seat61.com has <URL> . Prices start at EUR 29 ( advanced fare ) . It 's apparently very difficult to book it online but it might possible by phone . Depending on where you are , you might try your luck on <URL> or <URL> .
end question
start question
Maldives Visa On Arrival , full page or a regular size stamp ?
According to the <URL> blog , the visa on arrival is a stamp :
No , officially it is not possible to receive a passport check stamp for both flights . Source : I tweeted Ryanair if you could get the passport check stamp for both flights if one had two flights the same day and they were fast to respond that no , unfortunately not . <URL> That being said , I would for sure try and ask at your first departure if they would kindly also stamp your second boarding pass . I do not see anything airport - / flight-specific about the stamp as far as I can tell from <URL>
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
It seems that it needs a full page , I figured this out by searching for Laos visa photos in google . It always showed a full page visa except for older visas where it was a stamp . I guess you will end up with two empty pages :)
I believe one can carry tripods on carry-on bags . But its advisable to fit that inside the luggage than strapped to backpack/camera bag . I 've carried my tripod like this on two occasions . First time I traveled on Jet Airways - a domestic flight between Bangalore and Delhi . I packed that in a kit ( one similar to sports bag ) and a friend who was travelling with me packed his tripod in his rucksack . We were allowed to to carry them . Second time was on an international flight - Emirates ( from London to Bangalore via Dubai ) . This time the tripod was in a hard case carry on bag . And there was no problem carrying it . Jet Airways , Kingfisher and Air India being Indian airline operators - they have almost similar guidelines . So carrying a tripod on these might not be an issue . EDIT by OP : Aeroflot allows tripods on their planes but I was n't able to bring it not because of their rules but because of security check in Zagreb airport . Kingfisher Airlines does NOT allow tripods on any of their flights nor does Go Air . Air India allows tripods on all their flights except the ones to and from Leh , Jammu and Srinagar .
According to their website , that would be <URL> , they mention their permits on the website ( emphasis mine ) In addition to having permits to access areas of the Churchill Wildlife Management Area where only Frontiers North Adventures can go , we are also the only travel company with a license to host guests to stay at Cape Churchill in Wapusk National Park . It 's also in their <URL> ( p6 , 9 , 32 ) [ ... ] we also hold the most permits to operate on the trail network in the Churchill Wildlife Management Area
Tipping a filling station attendant is not generally expected in the United States or Canada . Some guides <URL> it is ever expected , though others <URL> there is <URL> on the matter . Anecdotally , in all the times I 've been in Oregon and New Jersey , I have never seen or heard of anyone tipping the attendant simply for pumping gas , except to leave them the change when paying cash ( I have not used a full-serve pump anywhere else in the US or Canada in over 20 years , and can not even think of where to find one ) . Fifty years ago , a good attendant might have checked your oil and coolant levels , wiped the windshield , and checked your tire pressure in addition to filling the tank . An increase in electronic sensors and decrease in drivers ' patience over the years means such attention is rare today . In most places , " full serve " is not really full service , and simply the term used to indicate that an attendant is working the pump . With that noted , except where banned by local ordinance , attended stations charge a higher price , which is understood to cover the wages of the attendant for the basic work of filling the tank and collecting payment . Moreover , unlike a food server or barber , or even barista , there is very little social interaction with the attendant , and tipping usually accompanies more intimate or longer-term interactions . As an etiquette columnist wrote for a <URL> : Tipping is customary only if there are both full-serve and self-serve options at the station and the fuel is priced the same at both . This would exclude areas where self-serve is banned altogether ( including the entire states of New Jersey and Oregon ) , which is borne out by anecdote -- the only people who tip in New Jersey are <URL> . But when extra service is rendered , some tipping may be in order -- various guides suggest $ 1 -- 2 for cleaning the windshields , and at least $ 5 for any work involving getting on the ground or checking under the hood . As <URL> will note , tipping someone working in a service job is always appreciated , and never impolite . Pumping gas is a monotonous , fume-infused job which is at best unpleasant , so I would give some consideration particularly when the weather is hot , cold , or wet .
I have the <URL> : The maximum length of stay in Europe for non European Union passport holders is determined by the Schengen accord and is currently limited to 90 days within any 180 day period . The important thing to note is that you may not leave the Schengen Visa area for a day and return to restart the 90 day clock . In other words , you must be absent from the Schengen area for at least 90 days in a 180 day period to be legal . So if you friend has a multiple entry visa for 5 years , he can stay a maximum of approximately 5 * 180 days ( Stay 90 days , be absent for 90 days , and that for 5 years ) . It is n't allowed to stay longer but I heard that those rules are rarely enforced and penalized , but if you 're friend looks really that dodgy it might be better to not risk it ;)
If the identity and date are close to being illegible , that 's certainly a valid request . Otherwise you could have problems later . But just to make it " nicer " , well I suppose it wo n't hurt to ask , but I would expect a brusque reply in the negative .
It 's hard to agree with Mhche 's answer here . Unless you have a very limited number of places you want to visit and are just going to take a few trips to the larger towns or villages along the coast , I would strongly advice against using public transport . Even if the buses travel fairly regularly through the " suburbs " of Rhodes City and to some extent down the east coast , at least to Lindos and Gennadi , the time tables for the villages on the west coast and in the interior parts of the island are very sparse . From Monolithos , there is e.g. just one bus in the morning going to Rhodes City and another bus in the late afternoon going from Rhodes and back , of course only Mo-Fr . This is the case for several other villages as well , if they have a bus connection at all . At least between Rhodes City and Lindos , the main road on the east coast is not particularly close to the coast . If you want to go the beaches or see any of the spots along the coast , expect to leave the bus at the main road and walk the rest . Bus tickets are more expensive than the 3 euros mentioned by Mhche . Travelling from Rhodes City , expect to pay about 5 $ to Lindos or 10 $ to the south of the island . Taxis are also rather expensive on Rhodes . A taxi from Rhodes City to Lindos will cost about 60 $ , to the southern parts of the island expect to pay more than 100 $ . Unless ordered and agreed upon in advance , do n't expect to find available taxis " on command " in the rural parts of the island . Do n't expect the bus drivers to speak English . The traffic is not that bad on Rhodes , so alternatives to renting a car could be to rent a bike or moped . With some luck , you may get a bike for 5 $ / day and a moped for 10 $ / day . But even the coastal roads can be quite hilly , so do n't underestimate riding a bike in the warm Rhodes weather :)
Yes there is a form to be filled , and that is the arrival card which you usually get it during the flight . The form has simple fields : Name , date of birth , passport information , address in Indonesia , duration of stay and flight number along with other usual stuff . No tricky or smart questions like in visa forms of other countries . This form should be handed to the immigration desk currently , not to the VOA desk like before . UPDATE ( 2016 ) : Earlier in 2016 , no more landing cards and no more VOAs are required , except for business visas . All tourists who required a VOA before are now eligible to enter without landing cards or a printed VOA for 30 days , no more fees to be paid as well . The customs form is still required .
There is no universal rule on stamping visas , entry or exit stamps in passports other than , they are not supposed to be stamped on Amendment / Endorsements pages in the back of passport ( but if there is no other space ... ) In the good old days , passport pages were divided into quarters and countries used two quarters , left for the entry , right for the exit stamps . I think it was more just customary rather than mandatory . Today immigration stamps come in a myriad of sizes and shapes , and many immigration officers ca n't be bothered to make the stamping look neat . Most will try to put the entry and exit stamps on the same or facing pages . I have pages with 6 to 8 stamps on them . Some countries do have rules that your passport needs to have XX completely blank pages and you will not be granted entry ( nor be allowed to board the plane to those countries ) without the blank pages . Others will simply stamp in any blank spot big enough for their stamp .
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
UPDATE : On the Allegro train , by default , they placed the entry stamp on a separate page - I saw it happen to a Spanish citizen who was checked before me . However , I politely asked the officer , in broken Russian , to stamp the visa instead ( " pozhaluista shtamp na visa , niet drugoj stranitsa " ) , and she was perfectly OK doing so . Same thing when exiting for Kazakhstan . Below is a picture of my visa with stamps <URL>
To visit a fair falls <URL> , if it is part of your job , when being sent over by a foreign company . Specially if you want to do negotiations or even sign contracts . So you would need a business visa . If the fair you are visiting is an industrial fair such as for machinery or trade , you will need a business visa . However , there is conflicting information for this . <URL> claims that as long as your trip fits into the time needed for a tourist visa , you can get one no matter what the purpose of your trip is . I would recommend contacting your local Russian embassy or consulate and simply ask them .
In short : Come to the airport early , security checks will take longer . You should expect a longer and more serious security check before your departure and after your landing , including questioning about your whereabouts and activities in Iran or Kuwait . If you just visited there , this should be it - your entrance is very highly unlikely to be refused . Predictive Profiling 101 : Why are you being checked ? Unlike some other Middle Eastern countries , Israel does not ban or punish tourists who have visited certain countries in the past . This is a security measure , based on <URL> often used by <URL> . This means that the passenger 's personal details are aggregated , and if they fit into a presumably dangerous profile , the passenger is thoroughly questioned prior to boarding . This method is based on hundreds of variables ( age , nationality , purpose of travel , ... ) , it 's arbitrary and unpredictable by nature , so nobody knows know if Iranian stamp will raise more questions than a Kuwait stamp . Further notes Do n't lie or hide details . Lying will probably get you into longer questioning , and you 're more likely to get banned . Questions might get nosy and personal . The terminals for Israeli ( and US ) flights are often remote and isolated , especially in European airports . Taking a special in-airport bus to an unmarked terminal is not unusual . Do really come early . For further reading about the roots and disputes about Predictive Profiling , you can also read about <URL> and the <URL> , which are taught in security courses in Israel . This is not a political statement , just the viewpoint of the security official . On a last personal note , I envy you a little ! Iran is supposed to be a truly beautiful country , a mixture of Asian and Middle Eastern geography . I hope I can visit it as a tourist , one day soon .
Yes , in principle you should have gotten an entry stamp for the Schengen area . It seems the French border guard did not follow the rules . I do n't think UK border guards generally put exit stamps in passports , I believe the UK authorities should have gotten a passenger list from IDBUS so you should be fine as far as the UK is concerned . As far as Schengen rules are concerned the burden of proof will indeed be on you and you could theoretically be treated as an overstayer if you can not show a recent Schengen entry stamp , as set in article 11 of the <URL> : Presumption as regards fulfilment of conditions of duration of stay If the travel document of a third-country national does not bear an entry stamp , the competent national authorities may presume that the holder does not fulfil , or no longer fulfils , the conditions of duration of stay applicable within the Member State concerned . The presumption referred to in paragraph 1 may be rebutted where the third-country national provides , by any means , credible evidence , such as transport tickets or proof of his or her presence outside the territory of the Member States , that he or she has respected the conditions relating to the duration of a short stay . The previous exit stamp and UK entry stamp will at least show you have n't been in the Schengen area all the time since your last entry stamp but it would still be best to keep your IDBUS ticket to document the date you reentered the Schengen area , at least until the next time you exit it and probably for a few years after that . This is especially important if you are playing it close and want to stay several weeks ( if you are leaving within a few days of your first entry , it does not matter at all as you would not exceed the maximum allowed stay either way ) .
The formal name for this program is International Experience Canada . There is essentially nothing about it on the <URL> , other than explanations of how you can bring your possessions with you when you arrive . The <URL> was n't much better but it turned out that was because the program has <URL> . Unfortunately , <URL> does n't cover your answer . My guess would be that when it ends , it ends . If you want a month of not-working to do tourist things , you should do that during the term of the visa . The website does n't seem too worried about whether you 're working or exploring , since " The goal of International Experience Canada is to discover Canada " and they let you work so that you can afford to do that . The contact page is useless , basically just says to talk to your embassy .
Having arrived at Malta airport February 1 , 2016 , there was a booth ( I think towards the right hand side from Arrivals ) where I was able to purchase a Tallinja card for $ 21 for 7-days . The booth also accepts Amex cards . This covers the whole of Malta and Gozo ( Għawdex ) . Whether or not this can be topped-up I 'm not sure . <URL>
end question
start question
How to avoid drinking vodka ?
In Bulgaria , Russia , former USSR countries and others , it 's considered offensive not to drink when you 've been invited to , and you might need a good solid excuse if you decide not to drink at all . Expect to be on the receiving end of some good-natured banter if you decide to abstain completely . Medical reasons are a possibility , although it will be difficult to refuse to drink at least once with your hosts , regardless of your ( supposed or actual ) ailment . But if you decide to drink with the best of them , then you are expected to do so each and every time a toast is raised -- which can get you down pretty quickly if you are not a serious drinker . What you can do is just pretend to drink from your glass after every toast -- you do n't have to shove the whole 100 g down your throat every time . Just take a little sip ( maybe a little bit more in the beginning ) , and after the first few rounds the hosts and their guests will be in too cheerful a mood to notice you 're not keeping up volume-wise . Your glass will be helpfully refilled by someone sitting close to you when getting below one-third or so , so just do n't empty it as quickly . There 's always more where that came from . There 's a whole culture of proper drinking in Eastern Europe , so here are some generic drinking tips that will help you a lot if you are drinking only occasionally : Do n't drink too fast , even if you do n't feel you 're getting drunk -- you will , and it will happen without warning . Take it easy Drink water . I ca n't stress this enough . As much as possible , really , and all the time -- but not fizzy drinks . You 'll be able to keep up with your hosts longer , and largely avoid that pesky hangover in the morning , which is caused by dehydration . Excuse yourself ( temporarily ) . If you feel you 're getting in trouble , skimp on the vodka for some time . If asked , explain you are feeling a little bit dizzy , and want to take a break for a while so that you can resume drinking later . Everybody will most likely smile in understanding , and wo n't press you to drink for some time . Use the grace period to restock on dehydrants and food , because it wo n't last forever . Eat . Traditional Russian dishes that go with vodka are there to prevent you from getting drunk quickly . Pickles , smoked salmon , fatty meats -- they all help . Be sure to have something in your stomach before you start drinking , and keep up at a steady rate throughout the evening . Talk . Engage in a conversation with your neighbours on the table . If it 's interesting enough , they 'll forget to sip and toast as often . If conversations are not going well , there 's not much to do on the table besides drinking -- and that 's bad news for you . Good luck , and Наздраве !
First of all , haggling is not an expected part of buying goods in Dubai , which is by a fairly long shot the most Westernized place of the Middle East . Most people shop in shopping malls much like those in London , where things have clearly labeled prices , and you would only negotiate for discounts if you 'd do that in the West as well ( say , buying a sofa ) . Neither will you need to haggle for taxis , public transport , restaurants , cafes , etc. . You can thus quite easily complete all your souvenir shopping in haggle-free comfort in a mall , department store or even supermarket -- I 've found the best thing to bring back from the Middle East is high-quality dates , and both Carrefour etc and the airport sell nice gift-wrapped ones at excellent prices . Where people do haggle is the traditional markets , most notably the gold souq and the other markets around the Creek . Rest assured , no merchant will be offended by you accepting their first price , in fact they 'll have a hard time containing their glee as they try to sell you more stuff and then pass you onto their friends to collect some commission on top . But if you must buy from a haggle-y shop and do n't want to haggle , I usually adopt this approach : establish a reference price by visiting a hotel gift shop ( ludicrously overpriced ) or a fancy air-con mall souvenir shop ( still overpriced , but not quite so badly ) and chop it down to what seems like a sensible level . Then walk into the bazaar shop and ask if you can buy X for Y dirhams . If they say " yes " , win-win ; if they say " no " , say thank you and walk away . If ( when ) they run after you yelling lower and lower prices , turn around once they get to the price you named and you have a deal .
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
Assuming that Adria Airways closes boarding as usual 20-30 minutes prior to departure and you do check-in in advance , you have 45-55 minutes left for security clearance and finding the gate , what usually is more than enough time at Frankfurt Airport . You 'd also be fine if the train is 10 or 15 minutes delayed .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
Here are the options I know of regarding buying train tickets in Indonesia : At a train station . Obviously , this sounds like the best idea , but do n't be fooled , you 're in Indonesia and waiting times can be epic . Give it a try , if the queue is huge , just try another option listed below . At a local supermarket ( Indomaret , Alfamart , or else ) . They almost all do it , &amp; the price is the same as indicated on internet . The only challenge can be the language barrier with the employee , but it 's usually easily overcame . After buying , you have a receipt with a train ticket code to print the train ticket at a machine at the train station . Online . <URL> is the official website of the train network of Indonesia . You can see all the train times , but buying ticket seems difficult ( impossible for foreign bank cards ? ) , although good to have an overview of timetable . <URL> is only in Indonesian I believe , but with Google translate it was easy to use it . <URL> is a reseller of train ticket for Indonesia ( no extra fee ) , when buying , you then have a code to print your ticket at a machine at the train station . <URL> is also in English , just change the language using the relevant link at the bottom of the page . I both bought from <URL> and also from the local supermarkets , both worked very well . Just make sure you arrive a bit in advance at the train station ( maybe 45min ) to print out your ticket without too much stress . See the ticket machine below .
You can find complete information on the LIRR and subway at <URL> . Generally , the LIRR is faster , more comfortable , and more expensive . The LIRR takes 20 minutes from Jamaica to Penn Station . It is a commuter train with regular coach cars ; there is a seat for every passenger and overhead racks for small bags . The regular adult fare is $ 9.50 during peak times ( M-F from about 6-10 AM in this direction ) , $ 7.00 at other times on weekdays ; It 's $ 4.00 on Saturday and Sunday . The trains run at fixed times and you can find a timetable <URL> . The E train takes about 40-45 minutes to Penn Station . ( Note that Airtrain access is via the Sutphin Blvd stop , not Jamaica Center . ) Cars have limited seating and no luggage racks ; there is a fair chance that you will have to stand with your luggage for the whole trip . The regular adult fare is $ 2.50 at any time of day . The trains run frequently but do n't have a fixed schedule . You will need to buy 2-3 separate tickets for the different legs of this journey : To ride Airtrain from JFK to the LIRR or E train , the fare is $ 5 , paid with a <URL> . You can get a Metrocard at a vending machine ; there should be some on the Airtrain platforms or inside the airport . Cash and credit cards are accepted . There is a $ 1.00 surcharge for the Metrocard itself , or if you already have one , you can just add money to it . More information about Airtrain can be found <URL> and <URL> . If you take the subway , the fare is also paid with a Metrocard . If you take the LIRR , you should buy a ticket from a vending machine on the LIRR platform before boarding , which will accept cash or credit cards . If you do n't , you can also buy a ticket from the conductor on the train , but there is a surcharge of about $ 6 and only cash is accepted . When you get to Penn Station , you 'll need to buy another ticket for <URL> , preferably from a vending machine ( cash or credit ) . ( There is also a staffed ticket window , and you can also buy from the conductor on the train , but again there is a surcharge . ) The regular adult fare to Newark Airport is $ 12.50 . You use the same ticket to ride the EWR Airtrain monorail from the Newark Airport station to the airport terminal itself , so do not lose it . Note that the subway , LIRR and NJ Transit platforms are all in different parts of Penn Station , so allow yourself some extra time to navigate your connection there . You might be able to squeeze in an hour or so to look around NYC . I would suggest that when you get to Penn Station , you check the schedule of departing trains ( you want either the Northeast Corridor or North Jersey Coast lines ) , choose a train that will get you to EWR with as much time as you want ( I 'd allow 30-40 minutes from Penn Station to EWR 's terminal ) , and then see how much time you have in between .
In Bulgaria , Russia , former USSR countries and others , it 's considered offensive not to drink when you 've been invited to , and you might need a good solid excuse if you decide not to drink at all . Expect to be on the receiving end of some good-natured banter if you decide to abstain completely . Medical reasons are a possibility , although it will be difficult to refuse to drink at least once with your hosts , regardless of your ( supposed or actual ) ailment . But if you decide to drink with the best of them , then you are expected to do so each and every time a toast is raised -- which can get you down pretty quickly if you are not a serious drinker . What you can do is just pretend to drink from your glass after every toast -- you do n't have to shove the whole 100 g down your throat every time . Just take a little sip ( maybe a little bit more in the beginning ) , and after the first few rounds the hosts and their guests will be in too cheerful a mood to notice you 're not keeping up volume-wise . Your glass will be helpfully refilled by someone sitting close to you when getting below one-third or so , so just do n't empty it as quickly . There 's always more where that came from . There 's a whole culture of proper drinking in Eastern Europe , so here are some generic drinking tips that will help you a lot if you are drinking only occasionally : Do n't drink too fast , even if you do n't feel you 're getting drunk -- you will , and it will happen without warning . Take it easy Drink water . I ca n't stress this enough . As much as possible , really , and all the time -- but not fizzy drinks . You 'll be able to keep up with your hosts longer , and largely avoid that pesky hangover in the morning , which is caused by dehydration . Excuse yourself ( temporarily ) . If you feel you 're getting in trouble , skimp on the vodka for some time . If asked , explain you are feeling a little bit dizzy , and want to take a break for a while so that you can resume drinking later . Everybody will most likely smile in understanding , and wo n't press you to drink for some time . Use the grace period to restock on dehydrants and food , because it wo n't last forever . Eat . Traditional Russian dishes that go with vodka are there to prevent you from getting drunk quickly . Pickles , smoked salmon , fatty meats -- they all help . Be sure to have something in your stomach before you start drinking , and keep up at a steady rate throughout the evening . Talk . Engage in a conversation with your neighbours on the table . If it 's interesting enough , they 'll forget to sip and toast as often . If conversations are not going well , there 's not much to do on the table besides drinking -- and that 's bad news for you . Good luck , and Наздраве !
You can take the metro from Ataturk Airport to Esenler " Otogar " ( much nearer than Harem ) . From the <URL> , you can see the timetable , Metro runs until Midnight ( 00.00 ) . From Esenler Otogar you can get a suitable coach for your travel .
As far as cash-based expenditures : Carry around a mini-pocket sized notebook and a golf-pencil ( or similar equipment to your liking ) . Date the page , and then every time you make a cash purchase , jot down the amount and a quick note about where or what the purchase was for so you remember when you are doing your ledger later . The sooner you write down the expenses , the easier it will be to remember the exact amount and what it was for . You may want to count the cash in your wallet before and after the outing if you anticipate lack of time to make a quick note in your notebook , or make the note as soon as conveniently possible after the fact ( eg : wait till you sit down on the bus to write down what you spent on bus fare when entering ) . What to track primarily depends on what purpose tracking the expenses is for . If you are just trying to make sure you stay within a budget , you might track differently than if you are trying to estimate how much to set aside for a future trip of similar duration . If keeping track of " holes " in the expenses ( eg : someone else treated you to dinner ) you would probably want to jot a note where that expense should go so you can remember to adjust for that in your estimations for future expenses .
I contacted them and I got this response : When booking , select " place booking on hold " ( screenshot :) Then , call them and give the paper voucher code and the booking number that you will see in the next page . They will adjust the price for you to pay . After that , mail the voucher to their address , ( like e-mail was never invented ... VERY ironic compensation to give to someone that complained saying that their systems are outdated ) .
So I 've just been there and back , and I 'm posting a bit more info in case it 's useful to someone else . The single trip using public transport does take something between 2.5 and 3 hours , and cost in total between $ 18 - $ 22 ( single trip ) , but is definitely doable and convenient , particularly if you are travelling alone and with not much luggage . First one has to get from the airport ( IAD ) to Washington D.C. For these either the <URL> ( to West Falls Church ) or the <URL> ( to Rosslyn ) seem convenient . I decided to go for the Flyer bus , which costs $ 18 round trip ( you can return at anytime within one month ) and runs every half an hour ( on the 15 and 45 every hour ) . On retrospect , the Metrobus might be a ( slightly ) better choice , as then I would get at least a chance to " see " a bit of DC since Rosslyn is closer to the center of the city , but anyway . Either way , now one has to cross the city using the metro , most likely using the Orange line to New Carrollton . Make sure to have small notes to <URL> on the machine . How it works is that you look up your destination on a list on the machine , identify the fare that you must pay ( chances are that you have to pay the peak fare and add an extra $ 1 for the paper ticket ) , select that amount on the machine and enter then the bank notes . From West Falls Church to New Carrollton I paid $ 6.75 ( and the same when coming back ) . At New Carrollton you can then take the <URL> to Annapolis which costs $ 5 a ride . This one was a bit tricky , first you have to exit the metro station through the south exit onto a big parking lot . You will see several bus stops , with maps and clearly marked signs of the bus routes stopping there ; but 921 does not stop on any of those . It stops at some at some nondescript " kiss and go " area within the parking lot , only some small numbered stickers " 921 " will give you an indication that this is the place to wait . The small white bus/van itself is also rather nondescript , it may or may not say " Annapolis " on the side . Anyway , the people around and the drivers were typically nice and helpful , so ask if in doubt . It might also come handy to have with you <URL> , as this bus does n't run often , and you might have to wait some time . The return trip works easy as well , following the same instructions in reverse order . It might only be helpful to know that the bus stops for 921 in Annapolis are similarly rather nondescript , sometimes the only indication is a sign with the YTS logo . Also the bus might be late ( once I waited some 10-15 minutes ) , so allow yourself some extra time for the travel , do n't make too tight a plan if you need to catch a plane . As I said , although it takes a bit of time , the trip is somewhat cheap and convenient . Specially if you are travelling light . I did ask at the counter of the SuperShuttle , but the price for a single trip would have been of $ 70 . This might make more sense only if you are travelling as part of a big party and you can split the costs among yourselves .
To <URL> , I 'd like to add the passenger perspective : If you know that you may vomit during the flight , prepare yourself : Have a change of clothes in your carry-on , in case you manage to vomit over your shirt and pants , plus a plastic bag to store your dirty clothes . Bring tissues , or a towel , to clean up . Make sure that there actually is a vomit bag in your seat pocket as you board , and move it somewhere you can easily reach , maybe get your neighbor 's one as well , just in case . Do please put the unused bags back , though . Talk to the crew , since they 're really helpful . They may even be better equipped than you to clean up the mess , so do n't try to fix it all by yourself . If you 're flying with a person you know may need assistance ( such as a kid that wo n't give you much advance warning ) , be on high alert during turbulence ( obviously ) , but also during pressure changes , i.e. take-off and landing ( same problem as altitude sickness ) . Best wait a few minutes to calm down any upset stomach before exiting the plane . to freshen up afterward , you may want to bring your toothbrush and toothpaste ( there are small enough toothpaste tubes so that you 're below the 100ml container liquid/gels rule ) . Alternatively , you can bring some mints/chewing gum ( thanks , @zuallauz for the suggestion )
It may be not better than much closer places , but a time honoured retreat from the heat has long been Ootapramund aka " Oooty " , a " mere " 6 to 12 hours / 550 km from Madras ( aka Chennai ) . How does an average June high of 18.3 and record June high of 22 C sound ? :-) . <URL> . Missionary children used to be sent there to boarding school . I 'm told it has the only rack railway in India , and one of the two best " toy trains " in India - real trains but small and following steep and winding alpine routes - and suitably hard to get tickets on . <URL> Wikipedia : The Nilgiri Mountain Railway ( NMR ) is one of the oldest mountain railways in India . The NMR was declared by the UNESCO as a World Heritage Site in July 2005 . This connects Ootacamund with the town of Mettupalayam , at the foothills of the Nilgiri Mountains . It is the only rack railway in India , and uses the Abt system . Map and example bus route and timetable here . Many others available . They claim the distance is 549 km , but others say otherwaise . YMMV * :-) . <URL> This site <URL> say <URL> depending on operator etc. . This varies from the ( more likely ) 12 to 12 hours suggested in the link supplied by @vedic . There are 5 bus operators providing Ooty to Chennai bus services . K.P.N , SRM Transports , NAS Travels , Shama Sardar Travels , Alsafa Travels are the top bus operators providing 3 , 1 , 1 , 1 , 1 daily buses on this route respectively . The journey takes between 5.3 - 12.0 hrs to complete depending on the operator and the bus type . One can also avail of A/C Sleeper ( 2 +1 ) , A/C Semi Sleeper ( 2 +2 ) , Non A/C Seater ( 2 +2 ) , A/C Seater push back ( 2 +2 ) on this route . The first bus leaves at around 18:00 Hrs and last bus at 19:00 Hrs . The most preferred boarding points for Ooty to Chennai are Ooty , Bus stand with 7 , 1 buses departing daily . The average ticket price between Rs . 599 and Rs . 975.0 depending on bus type and operator . <URL> - * YMMV - Your Mileage May Vary :-)
The Gjendesheim cabin does not open until mid June and the buses do not operate in the off-peak season . I do n't know when you are planning to go in September , but I would expect the buses to stop operating around mid September . Time tables for this summer are not available yet . Since the Norwegian Railways and many bus companies operate with demand-based pricing , it is difficult to compare prices without having a specific date to search for . Since the bus timetables are not available yet , you will also not be able to search for exact prices until you can select a specific departure . Your price search for railway tickets is incorrect . Norwegian Railways offer saver fares starting at 249 NOK for any distance in Norway . At least with some luck and ordering well in advance , you can get train tickets from Bergen to Otta as well for 249 NOK . Going from Oslo , the fastest and cheapest option is probably to take the Valdres-Ekspressen bus directly from Oslo via Fagernes to Gjendesheim . The bus will take about 4.5 hours and I would expect tickets to start somewhere between 300 and 350 NOK , perhaps even less if you are lucky . Going from Bergen , the train via Otta is a substantial detour . Taking the bus from Bergen via Fagernes to Gjendesheim will take about 8 hours with prices starting around 600 NOK . If you are open for other destinations than Gjendesheim , there are of course many other locations you can use as an entry point to the national park or the Jotunheimen area in general , but you have to expect that public transport is scarce in the most remote areas , if available at all .
This is a well-trod trail on the backpacker circuit , and <URL> , but here 's the outline : <URL> from Delhi to the end of the line at Gorakhpur , overnight , US$ 10-50 depending on class of sleeper Bus to border at Sunauli , one and half hours , ~ $ 2 Cross border on foot Bus to Kathmandu , 9-12 hours ( overnight buses available ) , ~ $ 6 So it 's certainly the cheaper option , as you can do the whole trip for $ 20 , or even less if you 're the kind of masochist who enjoys overnight travel in the train 's general section . As for " good scenery and cultural experience " , though , I 've yet to meet anybody who actually enjoyed the trip . Since there are so many goras traipsing through , the scammers are out in full force , the border towns are absolute shitholes , and the Nepali roads and buses are pretty awful with <URL> an all too regular occurrence . And yes , DEL allows transit without visa if you can connect directly to your flight to Kathmandu and check your bags through .
The Arctic seas are unforgiving . The conditions are likely to change from day to day and even from hour to hour . You can ask the ferry operator , but with a 4 hour one way trip they probably do n't make more than one trip per day so they 'll be getting their info second hand too . That particular ferry route is on open , unprotected waters so it is possible that the conditions will be quite rough . However , you can get a weather forecast from <URL> , which today looks something like : The area around Dalvík and Grímsey currently has light winds , which may mean that the seas are relatively calm . If you want to go anyway , I would suggest preparing yourself for the feeling of seasickness by whatever method you prefer . Take an anti-nausea pill , do n't eat too much beforehand , and keep looking outside ( with a view of the horizon , but do n't stare at the horizon ) .
( 1 ) Container : Freight forwarders will send cargo by sea by container at rates far far far below those being quoted . Rates are usually by the cubic meter and weight is usually irrelevant as long as you are not shipping pig iron or similarly dense material . There may be a 1 cubic metre minimum size . Pack it all in :-) . You will have to get somebody who will arrange to incorporate your " tiny " load into a container full and pay extra accordingly . I do not know rates from USA to OZ but eg from China to NZ is about $ US80 per cubic metre !!!! and delivery times are in the 4 to 6 weeks range . Even after paying freight forwarder and customs agent charges at the receiving end you should be comfortabley ahead of the other alternatives suggested so far . ( 2 ) JUMBO boxes : Companies like DHL offer " Jumbo " boxes or similar with a 25 kg weight limit and fixed size . This may be useful . They are not cheap compared to container freight but otherwise are about as cheap as you can get for airfreight . ( 3 ) Buy it there : What are you taking that is not already sold in Australia ? Consider buying or hiring . Second hand buying ( look at ebay ) may help . You may be able to get somebody in Oz to buy for you in advance . If you have no contacts there I have some friends who MAY be willing to assist for a reasonable fee . ( 4 ) Prebooked bag - new service : Air NZ has as of November 2012 introduced a pre-booked bag service and this may be being copied by others . This allows you to book in excess baggage ( check in with the rest , just pre book ) at far less per kg than normal excess baggage rates . Hong kong-Auckland cost me about $ US70/23 kg for a first bag ans about 50 % more for a second . ( 5 ) Bilge class : OTW far far shot department : Talk to some yachtsmen - somebody may be willing to carry your well sealed gear bilge class :-) . They may want signed in blood indemnity re contents . Same may apply to freighters . Choose well :-) .
As a Londoner who does that route a lot : The easiest option is to take a taxi , which have plenty of room for luggage . However , it will be quite expensive , probably around # 80 . The cheapest option ( excluding buses , which would be ridiculously tedious ) would be the tube , <URL> - assuming you are paying cash ( you can save money if you <URL> ( or use a <URL> ) , which drops the price to # 3 or # 5 depending on the time of day ) . Fortunately in your case you can take the Piccadilly line the whole way there . The tube is more cumbersome with luggage , but it 's doable if you are on a budget . ( <URL> ) A reasonable compromise for one person might be the <URL> to Paddington , then a taxi to Kings ' Cross , which is only a short journey . However , it 's # 34 return each , so you wo n't save much money over a taxi with two of you .
Whether escaping the toll sections is a good idea or not really depends on the place . So-called " routes nationales " ( equivalent to the US Routes versus the Interstates ) can be narrow winding roads crossing every village in some areas , and close to freeway quality with multiple separated lanes in others . For example : The A65 from Bordeaux to Pau cuts down 1 hour on the equivalent trip using the standard road , although it is one of the most expensives in France . Also , there is the added confort of not having to slow down and care for pedestrians in every town , as well as not being stuck behind a slow truck with no place to pass it . The A75 , being part of the multiple possible ways to link Paris with the Meditterranean coast , is free from Clermont-Ferrand to the southern end . Also , there is a small toll to cross the Millau viaduct . In addition to the beautiful view , the bridge helps you save more than 1 hour driving down the valley and up on the other side . Going down the A10 from Paris to Bordeaux , there is a way to cut down $ 20 on the toll while keeping the travel time efficient . Many people exit at Poitiers-Sud and continue on the N10 " nationale " which is a divided highway with nearly the same driving confort as on the A10 . Most toll sections in France use a distance approach , where you pick up a ticket upon entering and pay on exit . Do not lose your ticket or the most expensive possible toll will be requested . The tip in the answers above apply , where entering and exiting multiple times can save you some cash . A few sections , tipically shorter , use simpler , flat-toll barriers placed regularly , known as " tirelires " ( money banks ) , with coin baskets . These are more found in the far southwest to the Spanish border , and around Nice . In my experience , it is better to pay the toll because , if you switch to the " nationale " , you may wander into a good gridlock , especially during summer . Also , other tips to save money include : Fill up in towns if possible . Gas is more expensive in freeway service area stations . The supermarket stations have better prices , especially Carrefour and Leclerc . Rideshare ! " Covoiturage " in French . This is easy using dedicated websites , where you can announce your trip and let riders join you . One of them is covoiturage.fr ; you can set options such as ig you are ready to pick-up/deposit someone en-route , if you listen to music or not , if you accept smokers or not ... This may sound off-topic , but : Consider taking the train . Saver fares randomly appear , and , in most cases , you will end up paying less for your ticket than adding the cost of gas plus toll . In some cases , the train fare is the corresponding freeway toll alone , or less . Also , using high-speed lines , you can reach your destination quicker . If you need to drive once there , you can review the " auto-train " motorail ( car on the train ) option or combined rail fare + car rental packages .
end question
start question
Where can I find the official school holiday schedule for Japan ?
Japanese schools differ by area . In Hokkaido , the long winter means longer winter holidays . Opposite applies in the south . Public holidays are universal though , inc Golden Week . From my experience holidays are usually end Mar / start April , August and mid / end Dec to early January . New school year starts in April .
G Adventures provide a lot of South American tours . They also monitor any safety updates in that region for their travellers . Here 's a timeline of updates and safety info within the last few months : <URL>
Fortunately there 's a website for this ! <URL> visually shows you the most light polluted areas . Naturally it tends to be around cities . The area along roads east of Chech ' on and Andong look to be your best bets , that I can see , but a bit of panning around the areas you 're visiting , you may have a chance . A car is likely going to be required to get to some of these , though . The Odae mountains between Chuncheon and Gangneung also look promising .
The short answer is no , you do n't need it . The long answer is that all Japanese have been vaccinated for it since the 1960s and statistical incidence is down to background noise levels : <URL> figures less than one case per year since the 1990s . So unless you 're planning on spending a lot of time in rural pig farms , it 's not worth worrying about . The CDC is , as ever , more cautious , but even they state that " <URL> " . The Australian Dep ' t of Health goes a bit further , stating that " the risk of travellers in Asia acquiring JE is extremely low " and only <URL> for " travellers spending 1 month or more in rural areas of Asia " ( unless there are significant other risk factors ) . All that said , the vaccine is reasonably effective and provides lifetime protection . So if money and needles are n't a concern and ( probably more importantly ) you plan on traveling in places where the disease is more common , like Vietnam or Indonesia , you might as well go for it .
I could n't find anything in Japan - my Japanese is n't that great , and search results are mainly about an apparently new fad called " water jump " , which seems to consist of riding a snowboard down a rather small ramp into a lake or pool . Here 's two event agencies offering two-day ski jumping lessons in Germany or Austria : <URL> <URL>
This attraction really has very very bad documentation . I would not blame your google skills for this . Unfortunately , the information is English is very bad , but not much better in German . The problem is that some years ago , all the villages had their own websites with such information , and then closed them and consolidated all to the regional and national pages . In that process , a lot of information must have been lost . I found this <URL> e to the trail , with unfortunately not much more information on it . Some more information was to be found <URL> , where they mention that the path starts in Stechelberg . That village still has it 's own <URL> dedicated to the trail . Those are also all in German however . This <URL> should be enough I hope . There is more information on site in pamphlets available . If you need more concrete information I would strongly suggest you call or email the tourist office that is listed on the website . I am sure they speak English well enough to answer the most important questions . On top of that , I can strongly recommend you the website <URL> . They list the most famous trails in the area with GPS , height and more information .
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
Nobody will be offended . It is a common practice among children to search for amber or shells . However I would not expect too much . Amber can be easily mistaken with other rocks and if you ever find something it would be rather of a small size . The beaches along the whole coast are easily accessible and I can hardly believe in the existence of hot spots .
Those spots are called ' Liftershalte ' in Dutch , Wikipedia has a list : <URL> Do n't expect too much there are only 6 of those , it 's a bit of a gimmick more then anything else .
This is where you want to go . <URL> booth located in the middle of Times Square will give a discount up to 50 % on the shows currently playing on Broadway . Although I have to warn you that more popular shows and popular times are likely not to be available . What time do you need to get there will depend on the time of the show you want to see and the day of the week . Fridays and the Weekend tend to be the most popular .
You 'll want to go to a locutório ( like a small shop ) . It 'll be called that - " Locutório " with a purple sign saying " SUBE " in the window . Where are these shops ? There 's a handy website that <URL> . Then according to a <URL> : You 'll fill out a small application with your name , address , and passport/DNI number and pay the $ 20 ARS . However , your card will not come loaded with funds and the locutório may not charge SUBE cards . So you will have to find a kiosko that does . There are many along Santa Fe that sport the SUBE logo in their windows . These places may or may not be able to charge your card at that time , so again , you 'll just have to ask . When you find a charging station , you can have up to $ 50 ARS put on the card at a time . The clerk will charge your card on a space age sensor machine and hand you a receipt with the proof of funds .
For 2012 , it would seem you 're out of luck by official routes . The <URL> describes the ticketing structure and process , and the final dates have indeed passed . A <URL> reveals at least one seller of tickets , but I 'd be very cautious buying tickets second-hand - not that it ca n't be done though .
Firstly , where are you going ? You want to visit the one country or some number of them ? You should note , that there is no such thing like Schengen visa . You can only get visa to the country in Schengen . So , first of all , you must select the one country you will be most time in . Note that different countries have their own requirements to the tourists . And since you 're in Schengen , you can easily travel between countries in it without any problems . According to your question , there are a lot of types of the documents showing that you intend to return to your country of origin : If you have a good job , simply get the receipt from your bank account showing that you are not going to search the job in Schengen . If you have family , get some documents about that - there are much more chances that you will return to your home for your family . If you have any immovables , provide documents about it . Ask for a list in the embassy of the country you have chosen - there can be some more documents that count as guarantee for you to return home .
Frankly , the ' best ' raw freely available interface is ITA Matrix . While you ca n't actually book flights on it , it allows you to specify any number of airpots , combinations , routing codes and more - it 's really powerful . It then also breaks down the booking codes , so that you can in theory take those to a travel agent and they can match the route . Or , once you see that the best flight from A to B via H is with Airline Z , you then start looking at booking sites for that flight with Z , or directly on Z 's website . For amazing detail on how to use it , as well as its undocumented features , <URL> . In some ways it 's like a form of programming when you look at it , example :
You can find the site at <URL> but AFAIK it 's Persian only . I am slightly curious as to what you searched for on Google , really :
The FAA has <URL> which cite a " U.S. Standard Turbulence Criteria Table " ( which I could not find online ) : Light . Loose objects in aircraft remain at rest . Moderate . Unsecured objects are dislodged . Occupants feel definite strains against seat belts and shoulder straps . Severe . Occupants thrown violently against seat belts . Momentary loss of aircraft control . Unsecured objects tossed about . Extreme . Aircraft is tossed violently about , impossible to control . May cause structural damage . But note that these are somewhat subjective reports by pilots of what happened in their plane whereas a forecast says what could happen . Turbulences are by nature chaotic and unpredictable . Even in an area where heavy turbulences exist , any specific plane may get lucky and avoid them , or unlucky and hit the worst spots . Additionally , the size of the plane makes a big differences . A turbulence that throws a little Cessna completely out of control may be barely felt at all in a large airliner .
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
While the answer from a Parisian is probably ' all over ' or ' my local patisserie ' , for those among us who are n't locals , <URL> ( 72 Rue Bonaparte , 75006 Paris , France ) is probably a good place to start . However , they tend to use it as part of other desserts , like their <URL> : Dacquoise biscuit with crunchy hazelnuts , hazelnut crisp , thin wafers of milk chocolate , milk chocolate ganache and milk chocolate chantilly . There 's a website , Parispatiserries , which <URL> : And that Dacquoise itself was really the highlight for me . Not only was the internal texture of it moist and slightly spongy , but it had a beautiful sweetness and surface texture that Mr. Tongue found thoroughly amusing . As an alternative , though , if you wish to focus on it just as a dessert , <URL> ( 25 , rue Jussieu , Paris , France ( Panthéon ) ) also serves it . <URL> and ranks it # 245 of 13,636 Restaurants in Paris .
<URL> gives arrivals and departures in a form similar to what I think you are expecting . Sample output for Roma Termini : <URL> There 's also a list of regional timetables in PDF format here : <URL> e.g. . <URL>
Wikipedia is actually quite useful for that . It has a <URL> . I can easily find flights to some of them on the usual search engines , mostly with TAP through Lisbon . <URL> , the flag carrier , also appears to offer many flights . If you want to do a " broad search " , without specifying an airport , you can also use <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . All three accept a country name as destination and the first one even searches other modes of transportation and some charter/low-cost carriers . If you do n't find what you want through the search engines , you can also check the airport pages on Wikipedia . There is an article about most of them , typically with a mostly up-to-date list of destinations and carriers . Thus , you can for example easily find out that TUIFlyNordic offers flights to <URL> from Arlanda ( apparently sold through <URL> ) .
end question
start question
On the Moscow-Dushanbe train , should I travel in platzkart or kupe for a calm trip ?
Definitely not the platzkart ! I 'm serious , you 'll never get a calm trip if you are in there . Platzkart has additional side places across the train , so it 's up to 52 people there in a car compared with 4 * 9 = 36 people in kupe car . Also , if you have an upper place ( the even one ) , you simply can go upstairs , and rest for whole trip ( yes , there is a probability that your neighbors will try to speak with you , but it 's much less than in platzkart . Also in kupe you have doors to close and remove outer noises , which you ca n't do in platzkart .
Some rules explained here ( in French ) : <URL> And a version in English : <URL> It depends on which fare you have paid when booking your ticket . TGV are in the category Trains à réservation obligatoire , that 's why there 's a car/seat number . Concerning your experience , either you had a Tarif Pro ticket , either you were lucky . Because with all other tickets , you either can not use it in another train ( Prem 's ) or have a fee to pay to change train .
Yes you can ! . There is a Dutch travel agency that apparently sells a <URL> by train into North Korea . Unfortunately their website is Dutch only , but <URL> seems to produce some understanding text , but then again I might be biased since Dutch is my native language . Update There is yet another <URL> agency that offers train journeys into North Korea It seems that with both companies you have to combine it with a journey through China or with the Trans-Siberian railroad .
Without getting into the philosophical paradoxes inherent in asking about " the most expensive free trip " , I 'm pretty sure the longest duration &amp; distance that you can pull off with an Opal card in a single day without backtracking is Goulburn , NSW to Scone , NSW by train : <URL> This clocks in at a cool 513.54 km per the <URL> and would take you just short of 8 hours ( 7h 57min , to be precise ) with a single connection at Central . Farewise , though , any distance beyond 65 km is charged the same , so it 's just $ 8.30 for the whole trip . Since Opal cards max out at $ 15/day , it 's not possible to get more financial benefit than this out of any itinerary . Because you 're charged every time you transfer , it 's quite easy to hit the $ 15 mark , even on much shorter journeys ( say , Circular Quay-Manly return at $ 14.36 plus any trip anywhere ) .
Will I have to always enter the UK even on the second trip first before I can make my way through to Dublin ? You have an entry clearance issued under the British-Irish Visa Scheme ( BIVS ) and have entered the UK previously and want to know if this counts as meeting the requirements towards a separate trip to ( or through ) the Republic of Ireland . No , once you leave the Common Travel Area , your BIVS ' resets ' in the sense that the original requirements must be met again . Your first entry must be in the country that issued the visa . The standard ' go to ' page for BIVS is <URL> , and this scheme is not explicitly addressed <URL> themselves . It is a policy created by <URL> by the previous government , and subject to withdrawal by either side . Also note that information submitted to either side is made available to the <URL> .
In the Netherlands , there are different rail cards , some group discounts and special offers but no discount for multiple/return travel . A day return costs exactly the same as a single . Except for international trains like Thalys , available fare do not change over time and reserving a specific seat is not possible so absolutely no reason not to buy single tickets at the last minute if you want to .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
If you 're going through customs and having all your stuff inspected ( as you will be ) it should n't matter as you 'll have all your bags with you . However , if you want to speed things up , have them readily available , in a separate plastic bag . If you have a piece of fruit loose in your luggage , they 'll likely want to check the rest of your luggage to make sure none has gotten further down . The inspect and release is probably to look for insects or seeds , so once they 're satisfied , you 'll get it back . Note that if you 're at all unsure , ALWAYS declare . Failing to declare something as seemingly innocuous as a piece of fruit in some places ( Aus , NZ ) can get you a sizeable fine - enough to put a dampener on your trip . Yes you 're going through Canada and the US , but check their customs signs and anything you 're uncertain on - check with them . Hot tip : I 've heard and seen people declaring stuff to speed up their trip through customs - by going in the short ' declare ' line and declaring something that is clearly not a problem ( like prescription medicine ) they get waved straight on through and out faster than anyone in the ' normal ' line !
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
According to <URL> , the bus to Phuket runs every hour , while the one to Krabi is only once a day ( 11am departure ) . So on that front at least , there 's a good chance the Phuket route is the way to go . It 's a 4 hour bus ride approximately , while the ride to Krabi takes 3 . For the ferry , you have again the <URL> : Phuket ( Bang Rong Pier ) : 09:30 ; 11:00 ; 12:30 ; 14:30 ; 16:00 and 17:00 Phuket ( Chianwanich Pier ( near Ratsada Pier ) - Only to Ko Yao Yai ) : Every day : 8:30 , 17:00 ( speed boat ) | Sundays-Thursdays : 10:30 , 14:00 | Fridays : 10:00 | Saturdays : 6:00 , 10:30 , 14:00 Krabi ( Tha Len ) : 11:00 and 13:00 So again , the ferries are more frequent from Phuket than from Krabi ( the same applies from the island back ) . My recommendation in terms of flexibility , ease , and frequency - I would n't hesitate to take the Phuket route , unless you have a specific reason to see Krabi .
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
I have not used that web site , but always bought the tickets a day in advance at the station or even just when getting on the train in Thailand . For sleepers I would recommend to buy in advance , just to be sure . Whether you should buy before your trip really depends on how sure you are about the dates . What if you really like a place and want to stay a few extra days . Booking them while you are there gives you much more flexibility . Rather than going to the train station you can still book online while you are in Thailand , there is internet access everywhere .
No , there are no such districts in either Moscow or St. Petersburg as of 2016 . Prostitution is <URL> in Russia and locations which become too well-known to the public are frequently raided and shut-down . Obviously prostitution still exists , but it 's not centered in any particular street or district . There are many websites online dedicated to reviews of such establishments , so you can try your luck on the Internet . As for safety : unless you speak Russian without an accent , I would n't risk it . While those two cities can be generally safe , putting yourself in contact with the underground sex trade is a risky endeavor for foreigners .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
1 to 3 months is not too long term to get travel insurance . Many insurance companies offer travel insurance and there are many options depending on what you want covered , how much you want to cover it for , and the duration of the coverage . Your travel agent might only suggest one company though which may not be the cheapest or best . They seem to have some kind of exclusive arrangements in my experience . One factor is the cost of healthcare in the destination countries . For travel to the United States the general recommendation is to get " unlimited " health coverage , which is of course the most expensive . For property theft and damage , Visa Card provides a kind of automatic travel insurance on items purchased with it . I do not know if Mastercard has the same policy . I did n't want to do too much searching so I stopped at the first one that seemed to answer your question . I have never used them so do not take this as a reccommendation . <URL> advertises " long term travel insurance " and says " Indefinitely extend your policy while you are away " . There are some restrictions which should n't affect you such as being younger than 66 years and being from one of the countries in their list ( I noticed Yemen was n't included ) . Also the price depends on whether or not you will enter these three countries : USA , Canda , and Japan
I suggest <URL> I tend to avoid having to rent cars , but the few times I have , I found these guys to be the cheapest . They source car hires from multiple providers and , consistently , for me , have been cheaper than renting with the individual providers themselves .
The usual rule of thumb is you get a better rate at the destination , but it never hurts to check beforehand . Look online for the " sell " rate of NZ Dollars from a Japanese bank and the " buy " rate for Japanese Yen at a NZ bank . Then do the math . If you choose Japan , the exchange service may not have small denomination NZ currency and definitely no coins , so they will exchange however much fits into the notes they have onhand and give you back the rest in Yen . If you choose New Zealand , I would try to swap your coins and notes for the biggest denomination Yen notes you can get before leaving Japan , rather than show up with a fist full of small notes . Any coins you have leftover should be spent at the airport or deposited into a charity box .
It actually is odd that the carrier chose to do this but it 's quite simple though not very well explained on the Greyhound Website . When you look at <URL> site it becomes clear . Instead of one connection in Buffalo , you actually have 2 in Syracuse and Buffalo even though the bus schedule number/route number does n't change in Syracuse .
end question
start question
Can a person fly to the Moon as a tourist ?
Currently the only variant to visit the cosmos is to go to the <URL> The only way to visit the ISS is to go there aboard a Russian <URL> . Note : you must go through some training before this . The price is up to ( and more to go to open space ) . In the near future the Russian company RosCosmos is going to provide tours around the Moon , but it is still a project , not a real tour perspective . Other tours are all about near-Earth flights . Update <URL> <URL> the first commercial flight to the Moon in 2017 ( 50 years from Appolo 1 flight ) , the price is $ 300.000.000 for two places . Flight will be done via russian Soyuz . Good luck !
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
Not all of them do . It definitely depends on which site you use , and what style of accommodation you are after . Generally , people going on holiday often have someone with them - a significant other , so often it 's based on 2 people sharing . Especially vacation prices . However , if you 're looking for say , hostels , it 's on a per-person basis ( eg <URL> ) . And if you 're looking at hotels for a single person , <URL> allows you to sort on a per-single-person room for prices , which I 've found useful in the past .
" Big ships " ( e.g. cruise ships ) , have very specific needs . Your chances of getting a job with one of them soar if you can meet one of those needs . " Recreational sailor " probably does n't " cut it " in this regard . Sailing ships need professionals . Most ships have computer and internet services . Your best shot may be at an IT role , but there may be more applicants than places . If you have hardware maintenance experience and are handy with tools ( you 're sailing experience suggests you are ) , you might be able to land a job in general maintenance . If you have an " esoteric " science backround ( e.g. in electrical engineering ) , that could be helpful . Otherwise , you 'd need to get job in some form of " customer service . " This could be manning the booking desks , or even cleaning rooms or " waitstaffing . " Make it clear that you expect very little pay , just " room and board " and some walking around money . You will be competing for these roles with candidates from developing countries . As for contact , I 'd stay away from the agencies , which have their own interests and not yours . Most of the shipping lines like to recruit at key ports ( not in the U.S. ) . Vancouver comes to mind for a Canadian . Otherwise London , Amsterdam , Hamburg , Hong Kong . Maybe somewhere off the beaten track such as Gdansk or Oslo . Good luck .
You should be looking for accommodation that is explicitly listed for short stays . The majority of " regular " German flats-for-rent come unfurnished and you will have a hard time convincing the landlord to rent it to you when there are other people interested in lending it for > = 12 months . That is especially true if you do not have a residence permit . Also , rules such as that the walls need to be freshly painted when moving out are by no means uncommon . Consider looking for places that are listed as vacation rentals . Your favorite search engine should find you some sites to search for them . AirBnB may also be an option ( despite the fact that the legal situation for people offering accommodation within Germany on AirBnB is a bit tricky ) .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
While saying " No " in Asia is generally different from other countries in western Europe , I made the experience that - depending on how well you know people and in which environment you are - it is much more difficult to find out what the actual situation is in Japan than let 's say in China , Singapore etc. . I experienced the biggest differences to the Japanese behavior in Philippines , Thailand , Indonesia , India and Vietnam . And before people slam my answer ( as before ) as not being applicable for the weekend tourist trying to buy a train ticket , please remember that regular business travel to a country is STILL travel and ON topic here . I further consider extended explanations as important to better understand the cultural detail while maybe not all parts of the explanation are 100 % usable during every days tourism in Japan . Saying " No " in general There are varying levels of issues here depending on your relationship to people ( are you a tourist , a customer , a friend , a boss etc ) where in general , as a foreigner , you might be treated with more politeness and therefore will have more issues detecting the " No " . Confusingly , there might be exceptions when Japanese people tend to be more direct and/or forgiving with foreigners in a sort of " He is a foreigner , he does not know better " way ( Henna Gai Jin ) . In general I have to say that your presence will be much more appreciated if you can avoid relying on the fact that you , as a foreigner , are seemingly less required to stick to Japanese customs . Please be aware that the more formal the environment is , the less you will hear a " no " . In any formal conversation , a " No " is actually highly impolite . I have a Japanese-Japanese-English dictionary which actually tells people what to say ( in Ja and Eng ) in different situations in an office environment depending on what they think ( in Ja ) . And in none of the sentences where " What you think " is along the lines of " we can not do that " being actually translated as " No " . The typical answers of decline are " We have to study the situation " or other evasive answers . Even the " Shikata ga nai " ( " We can not help it " ) is extremely rare and normally used only when all are victims to a common adverse situation . Saying " No " is something that you will hear only from people who feel superior towards you ( teachers , bosses , home-stay parents parents etc ) , in most direct but still relatively polite form being " Ya " ( " No " ) and much , much more seldom in the often too direct forms of " Damé " ( Do n't do that ) , " Muri " ( Impossible ) etc. . Many Japanese people chuckle when they hear foreigners using one-word statements as above , but also positive ones such as " Mochiron " ( Of course ! ) since that 's not something heard very often . Situations where people want to decline but may not : First of all , we have to be aware that there are several types of " No " in any language : Here the 4 most important ones : Not being able to do something immediately ( as in " We do not have this product " ) where it becomes quickly apparent and the person by any means can not simply say " Here you go " . Not being able to do something but it could be done later ( as in " Are you able to finish this until tomorrow ? " ) where the person can confirm now and live with the issue later Being able to do something but actually not wanting to do so ( i.e. accepting to do something to be polite ) Being forced to commit to something because there is a feeling that it is very important for you How to avoid the situation in the first place : In that context , there are several behaviors that make you get a better answer in the first place , since you offer the asked person a way out without them feeling obliged to say " yes " to something they actually do not want to say " yes " to : 1 ) Do not ask direct questions if possible . If you ask a question where the only answers can be " yes " or " no " , you corner people . Rather ask them for possibilities or general statements . If you need to get to the station , instead of asking if someone can take you , ask them how to get there . If the other person wants to drive you , they will offer , otherwise recommend public transport . 2 ) Do not mention how much you love something . There is a high risk that people will try everything to get it for you . People might take a picture off their wall or take off their necktie and hand them to you if you start admiring something too much . If you want to make a compliment , rather praise their taste etc. . 3 ) Discuss methods to get something done instead of asking people directly to do something . While this of course is more applicable in a business field , this behavior is the main reason for frustration between foreign companies working with their Japanese subsidiaries . This is a more widespread issue all over Asia , specially in Boss/Employee relationships . Once you know how difficult it is to get something done , you can make an assessment if you really want it done , instead of expecting the other person to you that something requires
Legally , probably . Sounds iffy , but that 's the state of the law at present - it 's evolving and is ' iffy ' . A US Appeals Court has determined <URL> , and that : " It is clearly established in this circuit that police officers can not , consistently with the Constitution , prosecute citizens for violating wiretapping laws when they peacefully record a police officer performing his or her official duties in a public area , " the appeals court said . The <URL> and states that : When in public spaces where you are lawfully present you have the right to photograph anything that is in plain view . That includes pictures of federal buildings , transportation facilities , and police . Such photography is a form of public oversight over the government and is important in a free society . and in regards to your camera/phone : Police officers may not confiscate or demand to view your digital photographs or video without a warrant . The Supreme Court has ruled that police may not search your cell phone when they arrest you , unless they get a warrant . Although the court did not specifically rule on whether law enforcement may search other electronic devices such as a standalone camera , the ACLU believes that the constitution broadly prevents warrantless searches of your digital data . The Huffington Post has an article - <URL> which confirms that it 's legal in all 50 states : " There 's no law anywhere in the United States that prohibits people from recording the police on the street , in a park , or any other place where the public is generally allowed , " Osterreicher said . However , conflicting state laws might still find you in hot water - they might go after you with another sneaky rule , for example , from the same article , according to Massachusetts law , citizens are permitted to record police officers in public , but only if the police have been informed that a recording is taking place . You 're more likely to run into problems if your recording interferes with police business , or if you 're being a nuisance . So if in doubt - ask the officers that you 're filming first , and avoid the complications of offense , arrest and trial ( if not worse ) if possible .
Since the 72 hour visa is only available to the EU countries , UK , Switzerland , and Japan . Which means that the rest of the people will have to enter under the regular tourist visa . There is also agreements being put in place regarding <URL> , so I would just apply for that and use it to enter both Kaliningrad and St. Petersburg . Or you could wait until <URL>
They are unusual in the West , but there are some airlines that offer cheaper seats when booking for multiple people . In particular , Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific both offer " GV2 " and " GV4 " fares , available only to groups of 2 or 4 passengers respectively . For example , in <URL> , the single passenger price for a Singapore-Chennai/Kolkata return is S$ 700 , while the GV2 fare is $ 600 and the GV4 fare is only $ 500 . These show up automatically when booking online for the appropriate number of people , no travel agent needed . Of course , even in SQ 's case , these fares are not offered on all routes or all flights . When they 're not , you may still be better off following Alessandro 's suggestion and booking separately to get the best possible fare classes . And before you ask , despite living in Singapore for > 7 years , I was never able to figure out what " GV " stands for ! Probably " Great Value " or something equally naff .
There 's much , much more information on <URL> on flight insights as they call it . You enter the route and click on that option , they graphically tell you all about what weeks of the year it would be the cheapest to do that trip , what day of the week is cheapest on average , what time of the day they 'd suggest flying , the alternative airports if applicable , the cheapest airlines on average , and on top of that they show a pie chart on how much each of these factors affect the price .
Fortunately one fan <URL> . To summarise , he started by staying at the Marco Polo , a motel where Cobain used to get his heroin nearby , and shoot up in room 226 . 413 Fleet Street South is a noted spot next , as the house Cobain lived in with his father for several years in the late 70s / early 80s . He drives to Aberdeen ( town slogan : " Come as you are " ) ( they claim him instead of Seattle ) , then on to 1210 East First Street ( in the Felony Flats - another abode of Cobain 's while growing up ) . The Aberdeen museum has a statue of Cobain as well . Aberdeen 's must-see Cobain site is a small park , opened in 2011 by the Kurt Cobain Memorial Foundation , called Kurt Cobain Landing . There 's also several other places where he used to live ( address not mentioned ) , including Dale Crover 's porch , at 609 West Second Street . He goes to ' The Central ' but like many bars of the era , they 've changed crowds , styles and music , like ' The Crocodile ' , the ' OK Hotel ' , Beehive Records ( now a pet store ) , and Linda 's Tavern where Cobain was last seen alive . As I finish summarising , I realise that the article is actually a bit of a gold mine , because it finishes by listing all the addresses of the places mentioned above , which should help you a lot in planning and locating some of the old haunts . Good luck !
Is it possible to legally obtain a second , fake passport ? The legality of obtaining a fake passport depends upon where you obtain it . I have seen market stalls in Cairo ready to sell any document you want legality notwithstanding . Not a market stall , but there 's ' paper shops ' in Belarus doing the same thing . For you it 's a transaction like a souvenir , for the people who make them it 's a different story . However , to have one in your possession in the EU ( including the UK ) is illegal , even if you did n't use it . If not , is it possible to obtain a second , real passport in a fully legal fashion ? ( This is my preference if possible . ) This is common with people who need lots of visas so they flip-flop them to travel on one passport when the other is tied up in an application pipeline . You simply need a premise . With respect to your strategy , consider this scenario ... You are at your relatives and give your parents a fake passport . You miss the bus or get waylaid in a brothel somewhere and do not show up at bed time . So your parents contact the police and innocently show them your fake passport . Wo n't this be a jolly hoot . So your strategy is blind to some of the things that can happen . The ' best practices ' prescription for your situation is to establish an independent lifestyle so that these impractical strategies are not needed .
Because they can . Not all tourists spend money in the cities and most cities do not get direct benefits from tourist money while they do spend money on public transport , roads and other things tourists use . In most places I have been tourist tax was a very small amount , about 1 % or less of the cost of being a tourist in the town .
Seafood allergies are a big issue in Japan , vegetarianism is often hard to deal with , a strong allergy to shrimp will cause problems unless you know what not to eat and are prepared to tell the waiter your needs in Japanese . If you rely on English skills only and do not avoid special types of food , you will have a problem , guaranteed . My first recommendation would be to for sure avoid deep fried food such as Tempura , Kushikatsu amd Tonkatsu . Those are all fried in the same oil as other customers food and therefore for sure mixed with shrimp . Secondly , as long as you go for other food types you might be fine most of the time provided that you prepare a paper for the waiter in Japanese that makes them aware of the issue and thus stay safe of ordering something that contains a sauce or soup made of shrimp . You better also get a proper understanding what causes the allergy so that you know if it 's only shrimp or also crabs or other types of shellfish . Shellfish varieties in Japan are numerous and you want to avoid a misunderstanding . Then you will be ok and enjoy a huge variety of Japanese food . Be aware that in many cases waiters do not know too much about the food they are serving and have to check with the cook about the ingredients of what they serve , so you better have something on the paper that says " Please check with the cook that ... " . Last but not least there is the probably most important warning : The Japanese healthcare system is suffering from a slew of litigation cases which causes many hospitals and clinics to refuse emergency cases . A friend of mine had to be brought to 6 ( ! ) different clinics in Tokyo with a bust appendix until he was accepted . So if the consequences of the allergy are life-threatening , you better ask your doctor at home if you can get any emergency treatment injection or pills to stop or delay the effects of the allergy until you can get accepted in a hospital and get proper treatment . Otherwise you might face dire consequences .
There is not a single site or even multiple sites where the costs will be published . Reason being is that most doctor 's practices are private businesses and are not governed by any entity as far as cost is concerned . From the past experiences of myself and many others the cost for a regular office visit runs $ 80 - $ 200 depending on the physician . Urgent care visit runs $ 120 - $ 250 depending on what they had to do , and so on . Emergency rooms could get a lot more expensive depending on the care that they had to provide you and the hospital you visit . So if you feel like judging costs of care you should probably start looking at review sites like YELP : <URL> <URL> Where cost is mentioned in the reviews . P.S. Supposedly the new <URL> is supposed to provide you with that information .
<URL> has a cafe , which is open to everyone , just like any other cafe . It 's a great place to go , hang out , and just meet random people . At the top of the building , they also have a big room with a bar that I have been once at an event . According to their <URL> , as of July 2013 , you can book a DAYTICKET for 12 EUR . It looks , however , that you also would have to book a BASIC MEMBERSHIP , which costs 10 EUR per month . Plus , you can book five hours ( really that little ? ) of meeting room for 25 EUR per month . Maybe it 's possible that only one of you books , then invites the others as guests for a meeting . Complicated . I suggest contacting them . That being said , Betahaus is most likely the biggest coworking space in Berlin , but that does n't say anything about it 's quality . I 've been there many times , also to the <URL> , but I never used their coworking facilities . Co-Up , another coworking space that I have visited a couple of times , <URL> a meeting room for 150 EUR per day . And , of course , there is <URL> , a huge hacker space . I assume they would be happy to provide space in case that it is an open event . Other than that , you can visit them at any time , and hang out there , even as a non-member . You only have to pay for drinks . I have been there a couple of times on evenings , and I do n't know if they are normally open during the day . Again , contact them . I forgot : <URL> . According to <URL> , it costs 15 EUR per day . I used the place in 2008 for one month , extending my stay week by week . No membership was needed . The place is targeted at travelers ! It 's nice and in a good location , though without a separate meeting room . Just ask , perhaps there are not many guests at the moment . A good overview of coworking spaces you find on <URL> , a Berlin enterprise .
If you are an Indian national working in Germany , you will need a visa to visit the UK . Your question is about which programme is appropriate : dependent or visitor . Based upon what you wrote , they would see that you are reliant upon a job in Germany and hence getting a dependent visa would be difficult , especially since your objective is to visit your spouse in your free time . So you should apply for a visitor visa using the gateway at <URL> . You can enrol your biometrics at the nearest facility in Germany and your application will be processed in Croydon or Paris . They need your passport for about 10 days maximum . For your other question : You do not have to return to India to apply for a UK visit visa . Your wife is on an ICT in the UK and thus does not qualify as a family sponsor . So you can fill out the form like this ... . <URL> And note this advice for people applying in Germany ... <URL>
Surprise - There is an <URL> in Malaysia , and a <URL> near Houston . Here is a <URL> north of Aberdeen . Do n't think you could visit a live-platform because of safety and insurance regulations - it 's pretty much like asking for a tour in a factory or plant , and you would have to go through a safety briefing .
<URL> , after 50 pre-orders were cancelled , there are now 797 pre-orders for the 787 . This is spread among 54-55ish ( some are unidentified ) customers . Sadly <URL> only shows delivered planes , and that only includeds the ANA plane for the inaugural passenger flight . Of course as this is updated with more deliveries , it could become more useful and relevant .
end question
start question
Do I have to go through security twice when transferring between Terminals 1 and 3 at Abu Dhabi airport ?
All international passengers arriving at Abu Dhabi airport have to go through security once . After that you can check your next airline on the screen or printed boarding pass which terminal to go . There would be only 1 security when you will be entering and after passing there would be no additional security again
Hmm ... Technically , I suppose all of these answers are somewhat opinion-based , but I would personally plan a bit longer than 1.5 hrs for a layover to an international flight at ATL . I usually try to plan at least that long even for domestic layovers there . While Michael is correct that , if you did miss your flight , they would put you on the next available flight to your destination since you booked a single ticket , if you 'd rather avoid that possibility , I 'd personally advise planning a bit longer than 1.5 hours between flights . Keep in mind that the times listed for the flights are not including the time required to deplane and board the next flight , so even if you have a 50 minute layover scheduled , your departing flight is likely already boarding by the time you step off your arriving flight , even if it 's on time . It 's definitely possible that you 'll make the 1.5 hr connection here , but it 's also possible to miss it , especially if your inbound flight is delayed for some reason . As far as the ' plane train ' is concerned ( that 's what they call the light rail you mentioned , ) <URL> does seem to suggest that it connects to concourse F. Note that international flights in Atlanta can depart from either Concourse F ( which is directly attached to the new international terminal ) or Concourse E ( which housed all of the international flights prior to the new terminal . ) As far as I know , the plane train connects to both , though .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
If you bought it on one ticket then yes , it is sufficient time or it would not have been sold to you ( alright perhaps I am an optimist ! ) . Your luggage will be through-checked to CDG , if on one ticket . ( If it is on two tickets it should still be possible to arrange for it to be through-checked and to pick up your GRU-CDG boarding pass at FOR . However I would not advise buying your tickets this way . ) You have n't said which airport it is ( São Paulo has two ) , but since you are flying to Paris on TAM I conclude it is Guarulhos ( GRU ) . The minimum connect time at GRU for domestic to international ( D/I ) is 1 hour : ( There are some exceptions , but your flights are not in the list . ) There is a terminal change going from terminal 2 to terminal 3 . Unfortunately , I think you will have to re-clear security at terminal 3 -- perhaps someone can confirm this ?
Oh , I basically did this in July , from mid-afternoon until late evening when my flight out happened . Assuming you do n't want to just grab a cab and go down to the waterfront ( it 's nice and there are cafes and the market ) , the airport does n't have much . At all . Landside You have a choice of two Costa Coffees , and a small restaurant place with some Indian-like food ( much Omani cuisine is inspired by Indian food ) . It 's nothing fancy . That 's it . The rest of the shops are cellphone sim card stalls , and care-hire , basically . Airside Going through check-in , you get to go upstairs , and this is bigger - but now you 're going to have Wendy 's , Subway , and that style - plus one small restaurant that serves shish kabob and wraps . And souvenir shops and exchange places . It was pretty limited . They also claimed to have free wifi , but it was n't working when I was there . All day . My recommendation - landside , get into that restaurant ( it 's opposite the small Costa ) , and settle in at one of the booths . Each booth has a powerpoint , and you can just chill and watch movies on your device or listen to music , while people watching a bit and occasionally buying a drink . Otherwise though , no , I did a lot of laps walking , but there 's really not much else to see . If you can , you 're far better off adventuring outside , even if for a short time . Town is pretty close - go see the new mosque at night , it 's quite a sight !
Yes , you can travel between the different terminals in CDG . Apparently , when connecting from terminal 2C to terminal 1 , if both your flights are from/to outside of Schengen , you can usually connect without entering France , with the <URL> . But in your case , you do not want to do that for now . As @phoog commented , the shopping area of terminal 2E is in the international zone . so you should not need to cross the border into France . What you want to do is take the blue shuttle that links terminal 2C and 2E . Once you are done you will have to take the blue shuttle back to terminal 2C , then the green shuttle to go to terminal 1 . If for some other reason ( typically to see your friend , since this friend might not be able to access the international zone ) , you want to cross the border : as an American passport holder , <URL> ( it is still a border , so the border agent may deny you the entry ) . Once you cross the border , you can go to terminal 2E , then to terminal 1 for your connection . To go from terminal 2 to terminal 1 , you have to take the CDGVal , that appears on the <URL> . Keep in mind that crossing the border may take some time . If your two flights are with different airlines , you will probably have to collect your luggage and check it in again , so that will take even more time .
In all probability , you should be able to board the flight . I use the expression because this is not a matter of rules , but depends on various factors that can not be predetermined , such as the punctuality of the flight that lands you into Frankfurt , the rush on the two flights , and the number of people doing the transition from this to that . I had a similar experience once while flying Lufthansa from Bangalore to San Francisco . I had a little more time than you -- 90 minutes instead of 55 , but guess what , my Bangalore-Frankfurt flight was late by around an hour . 30 minutes would have been impossible to make the connect but the airlines staff knew that , and they boarded all passengers of the incoming flight that had to connect to the next flight to San Francisco in a separate coach , took them to a special window where they got their passports stamped , and then back onto the coach and the plane for the connecting flight . I think the connecting flight was even delayed by a few minutes as 30 minutes would not have been sufficient to transfer 50 + passengers . It was smooth for passengers , though a little tiring of flying 20 straight hours . One of my two check in bags did n't make it though . I got only one bag in SFO , and the other came to my hotel the next evening .
There is a free shuttle bus between the two terminals . In addition , there are golf carts standing by at some cost . Details can be found <URL> , which says : Passengers can use shuttle bus ( free of charge for transit passengers ) to transport between T1 and T2 terminal . Time of operation : From 06h00 to 24h00 ( local time ) ; Frequency : From 10 to 15 minutes / 01 respective vehicle . Maintaining other means of transportation ( tram , public bus ) The signs at the actual site indicate that frequency is 10 minutes during the day time and 20 minutes in the early morning/late evening . The shuttle bus is a small coach with space underneath for suitcases . Coming from T1 arrivals , turn right and walk up to the end of the terminal for the collection point . There are LED signs indicating the way .
Well . That was fairly painless . ONTC does not provide a service between Abu Dhabi and Muscat . From Dubai to Muscat , busses leave at 7:30 , 15:30 and 23:00 , arriving at , respectively , 13:40 , 21:35 and 5:00 ( the next day ) . The price is quoted at 5.500 , which probably means 5.5 , which is about 11 euros , one way . I got this from the horse 's mouth , ONTC responded to my email query within 15 minutes . They tell me the bus departs from the ONTC office , which is in Dubai Dunta car park ( 0097104042525909 ) , though I ca n't find that on Google Maps .
In practice , as a transferring passenger on an international-international journey , your item is forfeit . If it is confiscated by airport security , then you can have it back if you decide not to travel by plane . You can not take it on a plane ( to anywhere ) . That includes back where you came from . If you do n't have a visa or a passport that allows you to enter China , then you will have to find another way to send your item to your destination . If you are a very important customer you may be able to put it in checked baggage by asking an airport worker for assistance , but if you do n't speak Mandarin I think you have almost no chance of succeeding .
From the information provided online it seems that you may only have to pay for a date change which is as follows : Flight change fee 50 % of the original fare . Minimum and maximum amount of the fee is shown in the table . via wizzair.com Per flight , per passenger $ 10.00 - $ 60.00 / # 9.00 - # 53.00 <URL> This accounts for the original fare only . The baggage which you purchased is a separate add-on just like WIZZ Xpress priority boarding etc ; so they wo n't account to date changes . If you are still not satisfied you should contact there customer service @ 0330 977 0444 ( UK Number )
At about mid summer in 2003 - the hottest summer ever recorded until then - we saw substantial quantities of snow on north facing slopes in Yosemite at around 3200 metres altitude . This was <URL> looking South East across Ellery Lake . As that was substantially lower than your 3900 metres , on a probably hotter year and close to midsummer , you 'd be wise to allow for snow as a distinct possibility , but not a certainty . In late June 2003 , the then hottest year on record , we travelled by car from Mono Lake into Yosemite . The road rises to around 9600 feet at the highest point at Ellery lake , and the road then remains at about that level for some miles . There was no snow immediately near the the road anywhere but when we got to Ellery Lake there were substantial amounts of snow on the slopes on the far side of the lake . These are more shadowed north side slopes rising to about 11,000 feet . Your 3,900 metre road is at 12,800 feet ( ! ) which is well above the level we saw snow at . Further into the park from Ellery lake the top map says " Closed winter " but the altitude is about the same as at Ellery Lake . Location <URL> - viewpoint and direction of view about right . Snow may hav ebeen somewhat higher up slope than shown . Photos available .
You may qualify for " <URL> " , which would provide you meals , accommodation , transporation , if your itinerary matches certain conditions ( layover length between 8 and 24 hours , no better connections available and there are a few more limitations ) . If your booking does qualify , then you should see it as an option on Emirates website under " Manage your booking " .
Technically yes , the terms under which a Schengen visa is issued require you to have health insurance up to a certain amount of coverage . You may be asked for proof of this in the form of health insurance documents when you 're entering the Schengen zone and/or at any passport control checks . In practice though , it is unlikely that you will be asked to provide documentation for this . However , travel health insurance is still a good thing to have as hospitalisation costs in case something does happen can be expensive . You do n't need to get an expensive policy ; at least in the UK , you can get short term travel health policies which cost less than # 10 . Even though these policies may have high deductibles , for serious accidents they will still help you recover medical expenses .
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
<URL> . The key points were : Keep it in its box , safe and secure . ( It may actually make it clearer on an xray ) Avoid wrapping the box . Security may ask you to unwrap wrapped packages . Attach a small note - eg " Engagement ring inside , please be discreet " . Put it in a clean sock or similar , as an extra visual layer of protection , but will still be easily identifiable on an xray Put it in your carry-on ( you do n't want your checked luggage going missing with it ) Fill the rest of the bag with books , magazines etc - but NOT toiletries or other items that may prompt a security search Keep an eye on security , and if they stop your bag , try and distract her with a task while they check it ( get her to find something , or buy something ) In terms of dollar value being a problem , it may be worth keeping a receipt to show value in case of any doubt ( some countries limit the value of gifts or items you bring in ) .
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
My favorite way to get between the two used to be on a United Express Embraer-120 operated by SkyWest , which gave you a grand aerial tour of the LA basin and , at the time , 500 frequent flyer miles for 34 flight miles . Sadly , those flights were discontinued some years ago . Shared Van As with DAL-DFW , MIA-FLL , or HOU-IAH then , the most direct and economical LAX-SA transfer would be a shared van service ( if traveling alone ) . At present , <URL> are the concessionaires . SuperShuttle 's website quotes $ 36 for the first passenger and $ 9 for each additional passenger . There are two main problems with shared vans , at any major airport : You could have up to 8 fellow passengers going to up to 8 different destinations . If you are the last passenger to be dropped off , it could be a couple of hours before you reach your destination . LAX being a huge airport , there will probably be vans headed to John Wayne or its environs throughout the day . But , on the flip side to # 1 , this can mean waiting for the van to fill , whether it 's others who have made a reservation or walk-ons . So the time you save on stops is somewhat negated by the time you sit on the curb for other SNA-bound passengers to materialize . Still , at $ 36 ( and $ 1 -- 2 for the driver for each bag s/he handles ) and a couple of hours , this is probably the best trade-off you will find . If you want an exclusive van , the charge is $ 95 total for up to 9 people , though if it 's privacy and directness you need rather than capacity , you might as well book a taxi or ride service . Taxis and Ride Services According to TaxiFareFinder.com , a one-way metered taxi ride from LAX to SNA is about $ 135 , which includes the $ 4 airport surcharge , $ 113 fare , and $ 18 tip . Unfortunately , almost the entire length of the trip will be along the <URL> , which is unpredictable . Thus , your fare could end up $ 10-15 higher , and range from 45 minutes in ideal traffic conditions to double that in bad traffic . Uber and Lyft charges vary according to demand and driver availability . Right now ( Monday around 9am Pacific Time ) , the low-end UberX is quoted at $ 46-61 , and the super high-end UberLUX $ 233-303 . FlyAway to Downtown + Trains The <URL> , a flat $ 8 , is the easiest way to get to downtown Los Angeles from LAX via public transportation . Now , DTLA is in the wrong direction from where you want to go ( northeast as opposed to southeast of LAX ) , and a good 45 minutes away , but if you have time to kill and want to save a little money , this option is not entirely crazy . I outline several downtown to JWA train/bus and train/taxi combinations in <URL> . If your friend lives near SNA , he or she almost certainly has access to a car , and if they were willing to pick you up from the airport , might be willing to pick you up from a MetroLink or Amtrak station nearby . Disneyland Shuttles JoErNanO has already pointed out the possibility of going via Disneyland using <URL> . Competitors include <URL> ( put on sunglasses before opening that website ) and <URL> . As the Disneyland Resort is a common destination from both airports , you can piece together a trip The downside is that Disneyland is not along the most direct route from LAX to SNA , and thus you will spend more time , and risk more traffic jams , traveling to and from Anaheim . Additionally , as JoErNanO has also pointed out , these services are not primarily aimed at inter-airport transfers , so the schedules will not be coordinated , and you may end up waiting a good while at Disneyland 's bus depot , which is notably less magical than the park .
end question
start question
Where are the natural hot springs in Andalucia ?
Close to Estepona there are a roman baths called " Baños de la Hedionda " ( stinky baths , literally ) . To get there you have to have your own vehicle or find a local transport to Manilva ( it 's the nearest village ) . From Manilva you can walk ( there are <URL> around there ) or go by car . If you have a GPS go to : ( WGS84 ) 36.396483 -5.2614660 If not , in Manilva , just ask for " Camino de los baños " ( a nice paved road to the place you are looking for ) . Please , note that usually the bathers do n't use swim suit here , it 's not officially a clothes optional place , but nobody cares about if you have or not your swimsuit . So be tolerant .
Close to Estepona there are a roman baths called " Baños de la Hedionda " ( stinky baths , literally ) . To get there you have to have your own vehicle or find a local transport to Manilva ( it 's the nearest village ) . From Manilva you can walk ( there are <URL> around there ) or go by car . If you have a GPS go to : ( WGS84 ) 36.396483 -5.2614660 If not , in Manilva , just ask for " Camino de los baños " ( a nice paved road to the place you are looking for ) . Please , note that usually the bathers do n't use swim suit here , it 's not officially a clothes optional place , but nobody cares about if you have or not your swimsuit . So be tolerant .
Yes , it is correct and fine to wipe your hand , face , neck with it , be it with hot or cold towels . You can see that pretty much everywhere in Asia . In Japan , you will be given one at hairdressers to specifically to wipe your face with it . Specially when it 's hot and humid outside , a cold towel on your neck is something very nice !
It 's rare for tornadoes elsewhere , commercially at least . From <URL> : Some organized chasing efforts have also begun in the Top End of the Northern Territory and in southeast Australia , with the biggest successes in November and December . A handful of individuals are also known to be chasing in other countries , including Israel , Italy , Spain , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Finland , Germany , Switzerland , Bulgaria , Estonia , Argentina , and New Zealand ; although many people trek to the Great Plains of North America from these and other countries around the world ( especially from the United Kingdom ) . Overall , Australia seems like your best bet . It 's mostly enthusiasts up north , but they 're growing in numbers . A nice report on it <URL> , as well as <URL> . <URL> is probably your best bet for news on tornadoes and the like there , and <URL> would be the one to follow or contact to find out about any commercial groups operating . There are a few other random Storm Chasing websites in Aus , but they tend to be small individual groups , rather than commercial - however , you might find them keep to take you out for a trip , if you 're lucky : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Finally , it 's worth noting that most American Storm Chasing companies will keep an eye on the Canadian Prairies , especially during June - as there is the occasional opportunity for it up there , depending on the weather .
Camping is always an option and is easy enough , but it may not be what you consider " similar " to roofed accommodation . Other than the ranger cabins your other option appears to be one of the three lodges in the park : <URL> <URL> <URL> All three are inside the park , just off Highway 60 . Other than that , <URL> has a number of external accommodation options within 20 or so miles of the park boundaries .
There are no official laws in any country , not even in Saudi Arabia ( asked a friend from Saudi Arabia ) that blindly refuse entry based on your religion , if you follow any . However , your religion can affect how your visa applications are processed . The most famous case is when a Jewish person tries to visit an Islamic country , or when an Islamic person tries to enter Israel . In almost all cases , visa applications are refused . But I could not find any official reference to it . If you go beyond tourism , there are lots of laws based on the religion . Getting permanent residency or citizenship , or when you apply for a work permit or such visa , there are many countries that take your religion into account . Pakistan : you must be Islamic if you want to settle down . Even the Islam has divisions , and some of them are not considered . Japan : it 's very difficult ( if not impossible ) to settle down in Japan if you are a Muslim . Update : It seems I was wrong in this . See <URL> . Jewish - > Islam issues . If you have an entry seal from Israel , you will be denied entry to Kuwait . Egypt and Jordan ( neighboring countries ) have some agreements and do allow visitors . But Kuwait and Saudi Arabia : No . I ca n't even remember filling out visa forms that asked my religion . Unless it 's an edge case , you should be fine . However , note that practicing religion while you are inside a country is sometimes frowned upto and it can be illegal too . There are some stories coming out from Middle East that punished a foreign Buddhist labor for owning a lord Buddha statue .
While this is likely to be off topic , here 's an answer : <URL> This is THE spot for buying vintage electronics . <URL> While it seems from the outside that Akihabara is only anime and manga everywhere , originally the area was ( and still is ) the best spot for electronics . You want to visit the maze of small shops under the tracks of the Sobu main line . <URL> Keep in mind that there are many other shops around Akihabara , it would be too long to catalog them all , but I encourage you to explore around .
<URL> goes to all the mentioned places : Discover Uluru , Kings Canyon and Alice Springs on this 3-day tour starting at Ayers Rock and ending in Alice Springs . Explore Australia 's great Central Desert - watch the sunrise over Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , visit the magnificent Olga Gorge and Kings Canyon , with their beautiful waterholes and dazzling views . Stop off at a huge cattle station and the remote , early telegraph town of Alice Springs . They also mention infants explicitly as being free if they do not occupy a seat ( see under " schedule " ) , so we can strongly assume that they are allowed : Child rate applies only when sharing with 2 paying adults Infant are free provided they do not occupy a seat
I think I 've found it on <URL> : 福州港马尾客运站 ( Fuzhou Port Mawei Passenger Terminal ) 罗星东路77 ( Luoxing East Rd 77 ) Per <URL> , they have ferries to Matsu ( 马祖 ) every few hours . Page seems to be on the blink though , the Transport ( 交通指南 ) page is showing up blank . Give 0591-83268880 a ring ?
Well , turns out this is really easy - I just entered a store and asked for a monthly plan which includes unlimited data , and the clerk was happy to offer me a choice between a couple of available plans , without any requirement except a credit card ( no need for zip code or credit check or American credit card / address ) . The store was T-Mobile , but I think other carriers offer similar deals as well . Just be aware that the listed plan prices usually do not include sim cost or one-time activation fee . Still , travelling with an Internet-enabled smartphone is amazing , and definitely worth some money . The sim card was activated almost immediately - I was able to data-surf while still in the store .
The main bar area is along Via de ' Benci / Via Giuseppe Verdi , and some of the side streets . There are lots of different kinds of bars and some clubs there , <URL> ( Ponte alle Grazie ) <URL> , maybe 500 m north . See the map , just like the hostel guy drew it : <URL> The map I got from the hostel , with main bar area marked on the right-hand side It was quite busy , although I 'd expect it to be really busy in summer . There may be " lesser " bar areas too , e.g. across the river <URL> ( also marked on the map ) . And someone mentioned that some ( fancier ? ) nightclubs are located quite far in the suburbs , a taxi ride away . I did n't try those . Also , there 's <URL> on piazza S. Maria Novella , closer to the central station .
It looks like that page I quoted on is at least out of date , and probably just outright wrong . I asked the person at the desk at my guesthouse and it seems <URL> and <URL> are right that it ca n't be done directly in Siem Reap . The guesthouse quoted me a price above $ 60 taking four days by sending it off to Phnom Penh . I think I 'll head for the capital tomorrow and try to get the extension on Monday at the office in the airport .
All the life of Christopher Columbus has a lot of mystery around . It 's not even very clear , during the time he was in Portugal , how long he lived in Lisbon . Some authors claim he lived longer in Porto Santo , in Madeira . It 's though ( sort of ) clear that he lived and learned cartography , astronomy and some cosmology in Lisbon . It 's not very clear with whom though . Lisbon back than was one of the most advanced centers of cartography , astronomy and cosmology . Many people dedicated themselves to the study of these subjects . This makes it dificult to pinpoint a tutor/place . There are however two main theories . He either learned with his brother , that also lived in Lisbon or very likely in " Estudos Gerais de Lisboa " . " Estudos gerais de Lisboa " is currently " Universidade de Coimbra " one of the oldest universities in the world still active . This university started first in Lisbon and was after transferred to Coimbra . According to their history , their initial facilities , in Lisbon , were around " Largo do Carmo " . The initial university was in the place where today you can find Valadares Palace . Before settling in Coimbra , the university moved several times between the two cities . This palace/building was restructured and rebuilt many times . One of the last rebuilt was done from the ground and happened after the great 1755 earthquake . Long after Columbus lived in Lisbon . There is still another possibility . The university grew and a new pole was created in Lisbon around " Patio dos quintalinhos " . This place is actually in Alfama where Christopher Columbus allegedly lived . This area was not destroyed in the earthquake . I googled a bit and unfortunately although I could find some connection between Christopher Columbus and this building no reference was made to rooms where he could have studied . From the original building where the school was only a very small part exists . So , concluding : this place , unfortunately , probably does n't exist anymore . As an extra note : there are also many doubts about how much time he spent in Porto Santo ( Madeira archipelago ) , <URL> .
According to the Paróquia de São Nicolau ( Church of St. Nicholas ) <URL> : Uma proposta de experiência orante em sintonia com o ritmo da comunidade de Taizé , todas as 6ª feiras das 20h às 21h . Roughly translated as : Come for a prayerful experience in tune with the pace of the Taizé Community , every Friday from 20:00 to 21:00 . <URL> on Foursquare confirm it as well : Taizé Prayer : Every Friday at 19h45m . Come and join us !
There is no SanXingDui art museum in Chengdu , you have to go to GuangHan . The " museum " displayed by google maps is a store . Source : I asked friends . They confirm that the place in the streetview below at the location reported by google is a store and that the real museum is the one out of town in GuangHan . Details : Google does report a SanXingDui art museum in the city across from the WuHou park but as @dlanod points out in his excellent comment " the address [ ... ] seems to be lifted from <URL> which actually describes the same Sanxingdui Museum [ i.e. the one in GuangHan ] , and <URL> . " [ actually the website is down right now for me . ] Checking the map/street view of Baidu ( the Chinese Google ) for this place reveals a 三星堆玉器 , SanXingDui jadeware . Given the location in a shopping area , it seems to be a store for sanxingdui inspired ornaments . <URL> . Two friends from the area confirmed that this is merely a store . I reported the wrong listing to Google three months ago but nothing had changed as of today . The good museum is <URL> , 29km out of Chengdu . Update : A friend send me a picture that shows a sign for a 三星堆艺术馆 ( SanXingDui museum ) <URL> . However , as of <URL> that is only a sign with nothing behind it as of 2014 : Q : 三星堆艺术馆怎么样 A : 问了保安 ， 说是已经没有了 。 只有一个空招牌而已 。 Very loose translation of mine : " What is the 三星堆艺术馆 ( SanXingDui museum ) like ? " " Watch out . It does not ( / no longer ) exist . There is only an empty sign . "
I use a combination of packing cubes , amenity kits I get for free from airlines , and cheap little zippered bags that get sold as pencil cases , makeup kits etc ( the dollar store has lots of sizes . ) I deliberately get a wide variety of colours ( so they 're easy to tell apart ) and sizes ( because sometimes you need a lot of room and sometimes you do n't . ) I give each bag a name - " bathroom stuff " , " first aid kit " , " eating kit " ( this is spare napkins and disposable cutlery , little extra packets of sugar , instant coffee etc , that you need when you 're eating on the go or in your room and you 're missing something ) , and so on . My packing list actually calls these things out by their names and colours eg " yellow first aid kit " and I have the packing list split up by bag and part of the bag so I might know that the yellow first aid kit is in the silver suitcase , on the far left when the handle is towards you . Clothes are in packing cubes by size - so one small cube is underwear , socks , etc , while a larger cube is shirts . If I do happen to toss an extra pair of socks in when I leave home , the next time the stuff comes out of the suitcase , those socks will be moved to the cube where they belong . This technique worked great on a 5 week trip where we packed and unpacked as frequently as every night and the longest in one place was 4 nights . Nothing got lost and we always knew where things were .
I use those Admirals ' Clubs regularly . They are OK . The food and drinks options are poor , but the showers are pretty nice . There are also some comfortable chairs which recline , which might be good for sleeping , although they can go quickly . The quiet rooms generally are quiet , but they do n't contain the reclining chairs ( from memory ) . <URL> , so you can decide if that 's worth it to you . Assuming you are in Terminal 3 , it 's also worth checking out the Virgin America gates along concourse L , which have powerports , and the new Mexican place near Gate K8 or so ( best food in the terminal ) .
From Wikitravel 's <URL> : Rome has excellent shopping opportunites of all kinds - clothing and jewellery ( it has been nominated as a top fashion capital ) to art and antiques . You also get some big department stores , outlets and shopping centres , notably in the suburbs and outskirts . Main shopping areas include Via del Corso , Via Condotti , and the surrounding streets . The finest designer stores are around Via Condotti , whilst Via del Corso has more affordable clothing , and Via Cola di Rienzo , and the surroundings of Via del Tritone , Campo de'Fiori , and Pantheon are the places to go for cheaper items . Upim is a good shop for cheap clothing of workable quality . Some brands ( like Miss Sixty and Furla ) are excellent , some are not as good - be sure to feel garments and try them on . There are also great quality shoes and leather bags at prices that compare well with the UK and US . But when shopping for clothes note that bigger sizes than a UK size 16/US 12 are n't always easy to find . Children 's clothing can be expensive with basic vests ( tank tops ) costing as much as $ 21 in non-designer shops . If you really need to buy clothers for kids try the Oviesse chain . Summer sales in many stores begin around July 15th and Rome also has New Year sales . As mentioned above , Via Condotti is Rome 's top haute couture fashion street ( equivalent of Fifth Avenue in New York City , Via Montenapoleone in Milan , or Bond Street in London ) . Here , you can find big brand names such as Gucci , Armani , Dior , Valentino and Hermès , and several other high-class shops . However , the streets around the Via Condotti , such as Via Frattina , Via del Babuino , Via Borgognona and the Piazza di Spagna also offer some excellent high fashion boutiques , including Roberto Cavalli , Dolce &amp; Gabbana , Versace , Prada and Givenchy ( and several others ) . So once in the city , the big boutique names are n't absent . In these luxurious streets , however , you neede n't only do clothing shopping - there are some really good and funky jewellery ( e.g. Bulgari , Cartier , Tiffany 's &amp; Co. ) , pen and accessory ( i.e. Mont Blanc ) and artsy stores peppered here and there in these streets . If you want to spend a day in a large shopping mall , there 's the Euroma2 with about 230 shops ( mainly clothes and accessories ) and restaurants , to be found near the EUR district . Take Metro B line from Termini to EUR Palasport station , cross the road and take the frequent free bus ( ride takes 5-15 minutes ) to the mall . In addition to many shops and food , the conditioned air and free toilets may be a welcome relief if you are in Rome during mid-summer . La Rinascente , Rome 's first department store , having been opened in 1887 , is also a good retail department store , selling fashion , design , houseware and beauty products . If you like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch or Hollister , you have an Abercrombie &amp; Fitch Italia store in the Via Collatina . There are lots of fake plastic ' Louis Vuitton ' bags being sold at the side of the road . Be aware , that buying of fake products is illegal in Italy . Fines up to $ 1000 have been reported . If you are happy to take the risk , make sure you haggle ; unsuspecting tourists pay up to $ 60 for them . If you want to buy souvenirs or gifts , a museum would be the worst choice since there are many stalls along the streets of touristic areas that offer reasonable prices . It is likely that the same item in the gift shop of any museum will cost much more . Factory outlets <URL> , near Rome , along the Via Pontina highway . A very large Factory Outlet with more than 100 branded shops . A car is needed to reach the place but a 30 % discount in a designer shop is surely worth the 20km trip . <URL> . A little further away from Rome than Castel Romano , you can find Valmontone outlet on the motorway towards Napoli just 50 Km far from Rome . Valmontone itself is a delightful little town - 30 mins by train .
The practice of accompanying an espresso with a glass of water is typical in southern Italy , and in particular in Naples in which coffee is something of a mystical ritual . Recently other establishments across Italy ( and worldwide ) have begun following this practice . High-end places might serve you a glass of water as an implicit statement saying that their coffee is so good that it requires you to clean your mouth to properly taste it . The purpose of the glass of water is twofold . It cleans the palate before drinking the coffee , allowing you to better enjoy its taste . It also helps compensate for the thirst that usually comes after drinking the coffee ( a preemptive measure , if you will ) . <URL> : Un ottimo servizio prevede che l’espresso venga accompagnato da un bicchiere con acqua ( poca , non occorre pieno ) . Se l’acqua dell ' acquedotto è buona , va benissimo . Perché l’acqua ? Perché il caffè fa venire sete e desiderio di bere . Quando berla ? Un vero intenditore la beve sempre prima di bere il caffè , affinché rimangano a lungo in bocca il gusto e gli aromi . There 's a chance that the bar you visited serves a glass of water with hot chocolate , for similar purposes as outlined above . Of course , nothing stops you from drinking the water after finishing your hot beverage . You might see a few frowned faces around you , but all in all should you really care ? I believe you 're free to consume your purchased drinks in whichever order you prefer , regardless of unwritten rules and traditions .
I 'm assuming you mean onboard . It 's perfectly safe . I 've travelled from Washington , D.C. to Chicago , and down to Austin , Texas ( two and a half days ) . I 've also done a bit in the Pacific North West , and from NYC to Phily . So I feel I can speak on this a bit . ( I also did a LOT of it in Canada on a coast to coast trip , but that was split up with buses too ) It 's actually my favourite way to travel . Buses are cramped , anti-social , and you have awful places to stop and eat . Trains - well the ones I used , often had wifi , comfy seats , were easy enough to sleep on ( using two seats , but sleeping sitting up works too ) , power points at your chair . In other carriages there were viewing deck carriages with chairs that faced outwards , and snack cars where you could socialise and meet other travellers . People seemed far more open than on buses . I 've done a lot of Greyhound travel in the US , and that was never fun . Some odd types , full on fist fights in front of me , people doing drugs , and buses breaking down ( these were just the worst cases , not every trip ) . The train ran late into Austin , but that was about it . For reference , there seems to no longer be a direct coast to coast , which was what I planned too . I took the <URL> from DC to Chicago , and then from Chicago I took the <URL> down to Austin , and then if you continue on that it does end up in Los Angeles . Not <URL> . Safety wise , I never felt unsafe , and sure , an opportunist might have pick-pocketed me while I was asleep if they were really good , but I 've usually locked up my bags or have them under my feet if I 'm dozing anyway . If you actually mean the trains themselves , <URL> to improve the safety of rail throughout the US , to force rail companies to adopt measures to further improve their systems .
end question
start question
Can you use a UK paper license counterpart in New Zealand ?
From <URL> NZ At time of rental , the renter must present a full valid driver 's licence issued from their country of residence that has been held for a minimum of one year . If the licence is not in English , then an International Driver 's Licence is also required . New Zealand law requires you to carry your driver 's licence with you whenever you are driving . Renters from China can use a China Notarial Certificate ( CNC ) which is used in place of an International Driving Permit , however their original Chinese licence MUST accompany the driver as well as the CNC . Sadly the page was dynamic but i found the information through the following method : Reservations - > Qualifications &amp; Requirements - > EnterAiportCode : " AKL " - > ChoseTopic : " Drivers Liscence " - > Go <URL> ( New Zealand Transport Association ) * A current and valid overseas driver licence means that your licence allows you to legally drive in your own country . If you are disqualified from driving or your licence is currently suspended , expired or revoked , then you are not allowed to drive in New Zealand . ) The Keyword there is " valid " my understanding is it is not a valid licence without both parts . However find information from the DVLA on this matter is tricky . The <URL> has the same statement as both the NZTA and Hertz .
Working on a Standard Visitor Visa <URL> You ca n't : do paid or unpaid work live in the UK for long periods of time through frequent visits get public funds marry or register a civil partnership , or give notice of marriage or civil partnership Similarly , <URL> . Working in the UK To work in the UK you 'll have to apply for <URL> . <URL> , provided : You do n't need a visa if you 're coming to the UK for activities allowed under the following visas : a <URL> - eg if you 're coming to the UK for conferences , meetings , training , academic research or a sabbatical a <URL> ( you must have been invited to the UK because of your expertise ) - you can only stay for up to 1 month However , you should bring <URL> to show at the border .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
The Visa-Waiver Program , or VWP ( which is what the ESTA relates to ) allows you to enter the US for the purposes of Tourism or Business , but not for ' work ' . The distinction here is really down to where you are paid . Presuming you are already working for this company , and being paid in the UK , then your visit to their US offices is classified as a " business " trip , and is thus eligible for entry under the VWP . Whilst you are in the US you are able to participate in ' business ' for your company , but in effect this must be the same type of business that you would have been carrying out whilst you were in the UK . They can not pay you any additional wage ( other than expenses/etc ) over what you would normally have done in the UK , and they can not pay you locally in US dollars or in any form that would require you to have a US Social Security Number . ie , you 're good ! This is one of the purposes the VWP was designed for , and I 've personally done exactly what you 're describing at least a dozen times ( from Australia rather than the UK , but otherwise the exact same situation ) The definition of what is allowed under a B-1 visa ( and thus also under the VWP ) is defined in the <URL> The relevant section is : 9 FAM 41.31 N8 ALIENS TRAVELING TO UNITED STATES TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS , NEGOTIATIONS , CONSULTATIONS , CONFERENCES , ETC. . ( CT : VISA-701 ; 02-15-2005 ) Aliens should be classified B-1 visitors for business , if otherwise eligible , if they are traveling to the United States to : ( 1 ) Engage in commercial transactions , which do not involve gainful employment in the United States ( such as a merchant who takes orders for goods manufactured abroad ) ; ( 2 ) Negotiate contracts ; ( 3 ) Consult with business associates ; ( 4 ) Litigate ; ( 5 ) Participate in scientific , educational , professional , or business conventions , conferences , or seminars ; or ( 6 ) Undertake independent research . It 's also worth specifically reading the section in that document regarding the " Board of Immigration Appeals in Matter of Hira " , which basically holds that partaking in work actives whilst in the US , whilst not being paid locally ( other than expenses ) as a part of future work that will principally be performed outside of the United States , IS covered by B-1 status . You can find a copy of the Hina ruling on the <URL> The main confusion with B-1 / VWP is the very mis-used term " work " . In general in immigration law , " work " when used in most contexts actually relates to being employed and/or remunerated ( other than reasonable expenses ) in that country , not the act of actually working . As an example of this , the Department of Justice/INS document " <URL> " specifically states that the " B-1 classification applies when a foreign employer requires an alien employee to work temporarily in the United States ( US ) pursuant to the foreign employer 's international transactions . " ie , it is permissible to " work " in the US whilst under B-1 status , but not to be " employed " in the US . ( Note that the " foreign employer " part of this statement will almost certainly be true , even though the person claims to work for a " US Company " on the grounds that the actual employer will be a local subsidiary of the US company - at least from a legal perspective )
You do not have to use the body scanner for TSA Pre-Check . Most of the time they do n't even have the body scanner in that line . And when I go to an airport that does n't have a separate TSA pre-check line , like LGA in NY , they give you a card that says TSA pre-check and they send you through the metal detector . Even if you do n't have pre-check you can opt not to go through the scanner , but then they pat you down . If you do n't have it and are thinking about getting it I highly recommend it . Do n't have to take your shoes off or anything . So much easier . Like the old days of traveling . As a side note , when you think about it , you ca n't go through the body scanner if you have pre-check , because you have your shoes on and possibly things in your pockets so the body scan will always fail .
It would appear there is no official list rather an <URL> to check with the country you are traveling to . I suggest you ask separate questions for the countries you intend on visiting .
my name is Brando Yelavich . I 'm 19 and I 'm simply walking around New Zealand without using roads , so on the beaches and coastlines living off the land . You can watch my progress here <URL> ( facebook page ) . I 'm 78 days in and just about at the bottom of the north island . It is going to take me about 1 1/2 years . I 'm doing it solo , so no support crew , just me and my pack . Just the mapping took 3 weeks , to do it depends on the type of person you are to whether you could take this adventure on .
Generally no . HK$ in Hong Kong . RMB in China . However , there are plenty of ATMs where your normal bank card should be able to get you cash at a reasonable rate . Some banks have " no-fee " agreements with partner banks in China . For me that 's Westpac in AUS and China Construction Bank in mainland China .
From <URL> NZ At time of rental , the renter must present a full valid driver 's licence issued from their country of residence that has been held for a minimum of one year . If the licence is not in English , then an International Driver 's Licence is also required . New Zealand law requires you to carry your driver 's licence with you whenever you are driving . Renters from China can use a China Notarial Certificate ( CNC ) which is used in place of an International Driving Permit , however their original Chinese licence MUST accompany the driver as well as the CNC . Sadly the page was dynamic but i found the information through the following method : Reservations - > Qualifications &amp; Requirements - > EnterAiportCode : " AKL " - > ChoseTopic : " Drivers Liscence " - > Go <URL> ( New Zealand Transport Association ) * A current and valid overseas driver licence means that your licence allows you to legally drive in your own country . If you are disqualified from driving or your licence is currently suspended , expired or revoked , then you are not allowed to drive in New Zealand . ) The Keyword there is " valid " my understanding is it is not a valid licence without both parts . However find information from the DVLA on this matter is tricky . The <URL> has the same statement as both the NZTA and Hertz .
TL ; DR - You can renew the passport whenever you like . In 2011 I held a 5-year passport that was due to expire in -- IIRC -- 2013 . I was still enrolled at university at the time , which made me temporarily exempt from military service . Since males of the appropriate age need approval ( a specific form ) from the military commissariat for an international passport , and as I had a PhD position lined up abroad , I figured it would be easier to renew my passport while I was still exempt from military service , rather than having to face the hassle of doing this in the middle of my PhD program , no longer having the relevant exemption . To answer the question , I had zero problems getting a new passport , valid for 10 years , while there was still 2 years left on my old one . The lady at the issuing office was a bit surprised , but I simply told her , that I 've got a position abroad and would like to avoid the inconvenience of renewing a passport from abroad .
Yes , as a tourist <URL> , but you will also need to get an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) . In India you can get this from your local RTO office , procedures will vary slightly but <URL> .
Getting hotel upgrades is indeed like getting flight upgrades -- the odds are low , and stay low even if you try to game the system , but occasionally you win . I 'm also assuming that you have no elite status with the hotel/chain , since that 's a whole different ballgame , although it is also by far the best way to get upgrades . First of all , it 's important to understand that there are " upgrades " and then there are upgrades . A slightly larger room or a room facing the park instead of the parking lot is a small upgrade and these are often handed out like candy , but putting you in an executive floor room with lounge access , buffet breakfast and complimentary minibar involves real additional cost to the hotel , and these " real " upgrades will be harder to score . You can usually tell the levels with careful reading of the room descriptions on the hotel website : eg . the <URL> has something like 20 room types , but " Superior " , " Deluxe " and " Premium " are all exactly the 32 sq. m. same room , just facing in different directions . The " Club " rooms are the same room again with lounge access , and it 's only " Executive Suite " ( 72 sq. m. ) and above that are genuinely different . So , here 's some ideas . Short stays are more likely to get upgrades . You might get the grand suite for a night if nobody 's using it , but you 're extremely unlikely to get it for a month . Ask nicely on check-in if you could have a room facing the Eiffel Tower ( or whatever ) . If it 's a small upgrade ( see above ) , you just might get it ; if it 's a big upgrade and they 've got a bunch free , you might be offered a discounted upgrade . When booking , request something restrictive but not obnoxious : eg . " high floor " or " away from elevators " . On check-in , ask if they can fulfill your request . If they ca n't find a standard room that fits , they just might bump you up . If something is genuinely broken in your room and you complain about it , you may well get shifted to a nicer room . I once ended up in the presidential suite because it was the only room they had left with functional internet ! ( Was n't a particularly nice hotel and I was staying with my boss on a business trip , but hey , first-world problems ... ) A high-risk , high-reward tactic is to simply check in late ; if all the standard rooms are gone , they 'll bump you up . Of course , if you check in too late , then all the rooms may be gone and you 'll probably end up at the Motel 6 instead ... and if you do get a nice room , it 's already late so you wo n't have much time to enjoy it !
I 'm living in a high populated area ( at least for NZ 's standard ) in Auckland , but the question goes for the whole country . Yes . Except in exceptional circumstances , NZ tapwater is universally safe to drink . Standards exist to ensure that major contaminating organisms such as Protozoa and Cryptosporidium are removed or reduced to safe levels . Auckland water comes from two mains sources . West Auckland and some other parts of Auckland receive water from the Waitakere ranges catchment . Other areas receive water from the Hunua catchment and via pipeline from the Waikato river . The Waikato water is heavily contaminated at source and is treated to achieve requisite standards . Auckland water is among the " softest " in NZ and better than most available in major cities internationally . eg whereas car batteries usually specify distilled water for topping up it is safe to use Ak tap water for this purpose . There are variations between regions but these are mostly related to the nature of the water source . All NZ tap water is chlorinated . About half of all NZ tapwater is fluoridated , with exceptions where local action has seen removal of fluoride from the water . Some consider fluoridation a negative measure with respect to health . The majority opinion sees it as a positive . The debate continues . Drinking water standards for New Zealand : The following document was found by following a series of links starting at the one provided by Mark Mayo in his answer . This is a 136 page PDF which provides extensive details . <URL> This is part of the NZ Ministry of Health online library . NZ Ministry of Health library - water related items . A very large &amp; useful resource : <URL> . Only a few of the titles as a sample : Resources for the drinking-water assistance programme - numerous papers , including : Treatment options for small drinking-water supplies Sustainable management of small drinking-water supplies : Optimisation of small drinking-water treatment systems Sampling and monitoring for small drinking-water supplies Water safety planning for small community water supplies : step-by-step risk management guidance for drinking-water supplies in small communities . Annual report on drinking-water quality Estimation of the burden of water-borne disease in New Zealand International standards for drinking-water Guidelines for drinking-water quality ( World Health Organization . ) Development of drinking-water standards for New Zealand Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand 1995 Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand Guidelines for drinking-water quality : first addendum to third edition Drinking water quality : problems and solutions ( Gray , N. F. ) Provisional microbiological water quality guidelines for recreational and shellfish-gathering waters in New Zealand Community water fluoridation Cost benefit analysis of raising the quality of New Zealand networked drinking water Draft protocols for the public health grading of drinking-water supplies Pathogens and pathways , and small drinking-water supplies ... And many more ... . Chlorination : <URL> <URL> Fluoridation : <URL> <URL> The use of water fluoridation first began in New Zealand in Hastings in 1954 . A Commission of Inquiry was held in 1957 and then its use rapidly expanded in the mid 1960s . [ 96 ] New Zealand now has fluoridated water supplied to about half of the total population . [ 97 ] Of the six main centres only Christchurch [ 98 ] and Tauranga [ 99 ] do not to have a fluoridated water supply . In 2013 a Hamilton City Council committee voted to remove fluoride from late June 2013 . [ 100 ] A referendum was held during the council elections in October 2013 with approximately 70 % of voters voting for fluoride to be added back into the water supply . The mayor and most councilors have indicated that they will support the outcome of the referendum . [ 101 ] In a 2007 referendum about half of voters in the Central Otago , South Otago and the Southland Region did not want fluoridation [ 102 ] and voters in the Waitaki District were against water fluoridation for all Wards . [ 103 ] Ashburton and Greymouth also voted against fluoridation . [ 104 ] <URL> <URL> <URL>
Updated As of May 2014 , it works in both directions now ! As this edit demonstrates , from somewhere under the channel :) Yes , you can ! But currently until very recently , it was only in one direction ... As detailed in <URL> , Eurotunnel ( who own the tunnel ) have fitted leaky feeder aerials , base stations and repeaters to both tunnels , and it only took 10 months to kit out . Eurotunnel are then leasing them out to mobile operators . The North Tunnel , which is normally used for trains travelling from France to England , has been assigned as " France " and leased to French mobile phone operators . Service in this tunnel went live in July 2012 , and you can now use your phone to call / text / surf whilst travelling from France to England . It 's using French mobile operators though , so UK phones will be charged roaming just as they do in France . The South Tunnel , which is normally used for trains going from England to France , has been designated " England " as is to be leased to English mobile phone operators . However , despite being ready in 2012 , it took until <URL> , and as such mobile signal has only just started working in the UK to France direction . ( Quite why the UK networks were so useless is a different question ... ) The service from France - > UK , works well though , I can personally confirm it from earlier ! If you 're on the phone as you enter the tunnel , your call will continue uninterrupted , and work fine for the whole tunnel . However , just before leaving the tunnel your call will drop , as that 's where the French network ends . A few tens of seconds later your phone will sign-on with the UK network , and you 'll be able to call again . The service the other way , from the UK to France , still ( May 2014 ) seems to be suffering some teething problems . Mobiles do work , with the odd drop-out , but data is pretty flaky and suffers really slow speeds + long ping times . It 's possible they 'll sort that later , but for now internet largely only works in the " French tunnel " . ( I have managed to post to Travel.SE from the English tunnel , but it took most of the trip for the post to go through ! ) AFAICT , there is no mobile service offered in the third tunnel , the service tunnel , only the emergency radios work there .
<URL> . It is the official Munich website and it lists some places where you can park your camper . A lot of them are camping grounds , but there are also some areas where you do n't have to camp but where you just can leave your camper . At the bottom of the page there are also some special places listed , that are only available during the Oktoberfest . I think this suits your best .
<URL> , according to Wikitravel . There is no road or rail system . The easiest way to get around Greenland is by plane , particularly Air Greenland . In the summer , Arctic Umiaq Line passenger ships provide service to destinations between Narsarsuaq and Uummannaq along the west coast . Of course , if you got a skidoo or dog sled , you could make your own way around ;) Wikipedia actually has more information - <URL> The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways , no inland waterways , and virtually no roads between towns . It goes into further detail about the few roads that do exist : There are 150 km ( 90 mi ) of roads in the whole country ; 60 km ( 40 mi ) of the roads are paved . Two towns are connected by a 4.5 km road , Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit ; the rest are isolated .
Call the airline to see if they have any suggestions . <URL> In the event you arrive at the airport without valid identification , because it is lost or at home , you may still be allowed to fly . The TSA officer may ask you to complete a form to include your name and current address , and may ask additional questions to confirm your identity . If your identity is confirmed , you will be allowed to enter the screening checkpoint . You may be subject to additional screening . You will not be allowed to fly if your identity can not be confirmed , you chose to not provide proper identification or you decline to cooperate with the identity verification process .
I have been to Dhaka many , many times . In these times I stayed in two different hotels , they both had toilet paper just like any other hotel in the world . A quick google image search using the query <URL> revealed a lot of toilet photos for hotel toilets there , all of them seem to show toilet paper . Also , reading Dhaka hotel reviews in TripAvidor showed no such issue . Finally , you are free to ask for the toilet paper because most people who live in countries where they use water instead of toilet paper they also use toilet paper to dry after using the water . So no worries .
This travelcard is valid for all trams and buses ( including the night buses ) in Budapest and some close suburbs ( including the airport ) , on the HÉV suburban lines within the city limits ( a separate suburban network that 's pretty much like the metro ) , as well as on the BKK ferry . It is n't valid on the main suburban trains ( not operated by BKK ) nor on the funicular . The 5/30 card is basically a booklet of five 24-hour cards ( note that you must not detach them from the booklet : if even one page is torn out , the booklet is invalid ) . The sales desk marks the valid 30-day period ( if you get it from a machine , it should ask you for the starting date ; if you get it from a clerk , they might assume the current day if you do n't say anything ) . Each card is valid 24 hours from the date indicated , e.g. you can use it on one afternoon and the following morning . You indicate the date for each page by marking the start date and time at the back . I 'm pretty sure you do n't need to stamp it ( I do n't think the card would even fit in the validator ) . Here 's a picture showing the back of a page , from a <URL> :
end question
start question
Is there a comprehensive list of Magna Cartas and their locations ?
The four extant 1215 copies are on view at : <URL> ( x2 ) <URL> <URL> Part of the problem of making a complete list is that different sources given different total of extant copies , however <URL> . <URL> . There are <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Other sources have different totals , and part of the confusion may be about Durham Cathedral 's third copy - Durham Cathedral lists it as a copy from 1300 , but a number of other sites list it as being from 1217 . Calling them out separately as is common practice , the pre-1300 publications reside at : <URL> ( 1216 and 1225 ) <URL> ( 1217 x3 and 1225 ) . <URL> . <URL> ( 1217 ) <URL> ( 1225 ) <URL> ( 1225 and <URL> ) <URL> ( 1297 ) <URL> ( 1297 . The only privately owned copy . ) <URL> . ( 1297 ) According to the <URL> , we now have the set of pre-1300 locations right . Interestingly this actually differs from the same site 's <URL> . The engrossments from 1300 are located at/in the archives of : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I know of a couple of such tools : <URL> - more what you want , you choose activities , accommodation , temperature etc , and it produces a list accordingly . <URL> - claims to let you search by category from the ' biggest list of items on the net '
You can travel the NS train either by buying a single ticket , or by using an OV-chipcard ( Dutch : " OV chipkaart " ) . If you buy a single ticket it does n't matter . If you travel with the OV-chipcard ( as most people do ) , you pay for the distance you travel . The system needs to know how far you 've traveled so you " check out " when you leave the platform . The official who checks your ticket or card on the train just does so to check if you have a valid ticket ( but obviously does n't know at which stop you 'll get off ) . Note that a single ticket is always $ 1 more expensive than traveling by OV-chipcard . An OV-chipcard is usually $ 7.50 , but sometimes they 're discounted . So depending on the amount of traveling you 're doing , buying a chipcard might be more economical ( they 're valid for 5 years ) . You can only exit the station when you scan or swipe your ticket . Here in Rotterdam but more and more stations in the Netherlands are getting this system .
I would not give to much about the official information on those sites , since it 's mostly marketing and/or eventually a few years old and the owner never updated it on mayor booking sites . Fun fact : there is a marketing language in the travel industry ; for example " central location " for a hotel could mean that it gets a lot of traffic or street noise all day long , and you might have trouble sleeping , while " quiet area " can mean that you wo n't have any public transport or other facilities nearby .
The four extant 1215 copies are on view at : <URL> ( x2 ) <URL> <URL> Part of the problem of making a complete list is that different sources given different total of extant copies , however <URL> . <URL> . There are <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Other sources have different totals , and part of the confusion may be about Durham Cathedral 's third copy - Durham Cathedral lists it as a copy from 1300 , but a number of other sites list it as being from 1217 . Calling them out separately as is common practice , the pre-1300 publications reside at : <URL> ( 1216 and 1225 ) <URL> ( 1217 x3 and 1225 ) . <URL> . <URL> ( 1217 ) <URL> ( 1225 ) <URL> ( 1225 and <URL> ) <URL> ( 1297 ) <URL> ( 1297 . The only privately owned copy . ) <URL> . ( 1297 ) According to the <URL> , we now have the set of pre-1300 locations right . Interestingly this actually differs from the same site 's <URL> . The engrossments from 1300 are located at/in the archives of : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 've been on Thailand in January/13 for about 2 weeks passing through Bangkok , Koh Samui , Krabi , Phi Phi , Kanchanaburi , etc. . In Bangkok was where I saw more freedom of natives in talking about sex with tourists . In everywhere was someone offering to me to go to any of theirs sexland places ( In Bangkok we can see an entire district with expertise in Sex Tourism including some bizarre things like Ping Pong show , etc ) . So , this subject is broadly talked in Thailand and I think this will not be a problem to you . I only think you will need to pay for it . There is a chance of them to charge you for an " Interview " about their job . A way to get this interview is to visit a sex house and search for one sex worker who looks sympathetic and allows you to interview her . I 'm sure her will not mind in spend her time talking with you . I hope this can be useful to you .
It does not appear that any US passenger airlines currently operate flights within the EU . I assumed that if any such flight existed , it would be with one of the big four legacy airlines ( AA , UA , US , DL ) and at least one end would be at a major hub . I checked the Wikipedia pages for LHR , CDG , FRA and AMS , and none of them show flights on those carriers to other EU airports . However , based on those same Wikipedia pages , it does appear that the US cargo airlines FedEx Express and UPS Airlines operate many flights within the EU .
I tend to use <URL> to look up historical data . Their main mode is kind of interactive browser ( which is fun to play with by itself ) , but they also generate averages reports for all places their system knows about . It 's a little hard to pinpoint accurate location from your description , since Basque Country seems to more eagerly jump to Spain parts in geolocation . Do n't forget that while we think of weather data as related to certain area , it 's actually gathered in very specific points with weather stations ( often airports ) . I got report for <URL> , while searching for it there . You might want to browse around to refine for something closer to the area you are interested in . Their reports have numerous graphs ( temperature , humidity , clouds , winds , etc ) . For temperature I like their " fraction of time " visualizations :
In Québec , a flashing green traffic light means that no cross-traffic can go , even the traffic on the same road coming from the other direction has a red light . This means that ( if allowed ) you can make a left turn without having to yield ( except possibly to pedestrians in the cross street ) . See e.g. . <URL> or <URL> advice on the peculiarities of driving in Québec . This is apparently purely indicative since <URL> does n't distinguish flashing and solid green lights ( § 363 ) . Note that in some other Canadian provinces , such as British Columbia , <URL> . On a related topic , note that a flashing red indicates that you must mark a stop , but may then proceed after yielding to all traffic that reached the intersection ahead of you : a flashing red is equivalent to a stop sign . On a solid red , you must wait for the light to change . As an exception , in Québec like in most of North America , you may make a right turn on a solid red after marking a stop and yielding to all traffic ; however some municipalities forbid right turns on red .
The FAA has <URL> which cite a " U.S. Standard Turbulence Criteria Table " ( which I could not find online ) : Light . Loose objects in aircraft remain at rest . Moderate . Unsecured objects are dislodged . Occupants feel definite strains against seat belts and shoulder straps . Severe . Occupants thrown violently against seat belts . Momentary loss of aircraft control . Unsecured objects tossed about . Extreme . Aircraft is tossed violently about , impossible to control . May cause structural damage . But note that these are somewhat subjective reports by pilots of what happened in their plane whereas a forecast says what could happen . Turbulences are by nature chaotic and unpredictable . Even in an area where heavy turbulences exist , any specific plane may get lucky and avoid them , or unlucky and hit the worst spots . Additionally , the size of the plane makes a big differences . A turbulence that throws a little Cessna completely out of control may be barely felt at all in a large airliner .
There are many but , and I think this list may not be all , but certainly most . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I just went through and looked up all the ratings . Below is the list of National Parks , sorted by rating and then by number of reviews as of September 1 , 2016 . * Glacier and Denali National Parks both stated 3.8 with no review count on the Google homepage , but 3.7 and review count when looking on Google Maps . I do not know why there is a discrepancy , but all other ratings are from the Google homepage .
<URL> is most people 's pick for travel planning and sharing these days , its main selling point being the ability to digest flight and hotel reservations automatically , although it does n't have much in the way of visualization capabilities . However , it does have an API supported by a lot of third-party apps , so I can turns my TripIt plans into eg . flight maps in <URL> , which supports <URL> as well as <URL> . And for extra hipster points , you can even export from OpenFlights to Google Earth !
If you buy any SIM card in China , you will have access restrictions . If you buy a prepaid card in China or Japan , you will not be able to roam data in another country for any reasonable amount of nmoney . The reason is that the vast majority of the customers want to buy a card only for that market . Ironically , you will have more luck abroad to buy such a card . Regarding the international roaming for example , you can <URL> for 8 pounds a day . Regarding the firewall , you will not get any guarantee that it will work . I use a <URL> and can somehow access all normally blocked websites when roaming in China , but no provider will advertise this at the risk of getting blocked . So if you can not find an offer abroad , you will have to buy one in each country , and chances are that you will not be able to circumvent the firewall . Unless you get a VPN service and connect through it .
Yes , it would be , if not " rude " , then at least kind of awkward . Malaga , Barcelona and Madrid are all heavily touristed areas and most restaurant staff are very used to dealing with tourists who do not speak Spanish . You also do n't really need any spoken language to convey " table for one " ( hold up a finger ) , " I 'll have what he 's having " ( point at neighboring table ) , " menu please " ( draw a box with your fingers ) , " check please " ( sign an imaginary check ) , etc. . You may need some help translating the menu , but Google Translate and phrasebooks are great for this . The one exception is if you need to convey something complicated and important like " I have an allergy and will die if the cook does not pay attention " , in which case <URL> would be fine .
As per this <URL> , Kingfisher has filed a fresh flight schedule with DGCA ( Director General of Civil Aviation ) . Apparently , they have cut down their total number of flights to 170 ( from around 248 ) daily . Here is the link for updated flight schedules for the month of February . <URL> . To answer the second part of your question , " We have received reports about large-scale cancellations . They are bound to inform us when they cut their schedule . But they have not done so , " DGCA chief E K Bharat Bhushan said the DGCA had sent messages to all other airlines to accommodate passengers stranded due to the Kingfisher cancellations . " They have to do this without enhancing the fares , " he said . <URL> . According to DGCA regulation ( Section 3.3 <URL> ) , when an airline cancels its flight due to reason within its control , it needs to compensate the passenger , provide alternative flight or mode of other transport . The amount of compensation could vary from Rs 2,000-4 ,000 . In such a situation , an airline can put its passenger on the flight of other airline by paying them the price . If the other airline has vacant seats , it can not refuse to take passenger . I am not sure how easy it will be to get a seat in another airlines though . Another factor to consider is that some of the routes that Kingfisher was operating in was serviced exclusively by them .
I have looked into this in the past and it 's very disappointing how insecure this functionality is in general . The only specific additional security I could find was the Amadeus <URL> which states this : PNR Security Amadeus individual pnr security allows you to set up special security rules so that a pnr can be accessed by one or several other offices . The PNR security functions may allow access to a PNR even when there are no other special agreements in place and can override agreements that are contained in the current security tables . PNR security allows you to share PNR viewing and/or updating capabilities , without changing PNR accordingly . Creating a pnr security element The individual pnr security element is an un-numbered and can only be created by the responsible office . R = For read only access : it is possible to view the pnr , but no updates are allowed . In this case the agent is given an error message at the time any pnr update entry is attempted . B = For both read and write access : full pnr update is allowed , except for change of ownership . N = For no access : the office id specified can not retrieve this PNR via extended security agreements . ( This overrides EOS ) Office IDs can include wildcards . To enable this , it sounds like you 'd have to book via a trusted travel agent who could set these specific GDS parameters for your PNR .
Unfortunately , I do not have a positive answer to this question . I have been looking around the web for a few days now and I am almost sure there is no such museum . I have been through the <URL> with the help of Google Translate but with no luck . There is not even one comment about such a museum in any website . I think I can safely say such a museum does NOT exist in South Korea .
There does n't seem to be a comprehensive list of airport strikes , because : There is n't a centralized union for airport employees in Europe Different parts of the airport can go on strike : baggage handlers , security , pilots , traffic controllers , taxi drivers , cleaning personnel , etc The level of disruption is highly variable : not every strike causes a full shutdown There are frequent threats to go on strike , but these threats are not always carried out for one reason or another Therefore your best bet is to search Google News for strikes <URL> , or try the <URL> official website .
Yes , bags are sold specifically for this purpose . Features may include : being waterproof having lots of compartments to hold many small bottles ( or one compartment with various elastics and such to hold small bottles sort of upright ) having at least one compartment to hold tiny little things like bandaids and safety pins having a hook so you can hang it up in a small bathroom Examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> The magic word is " toiletries " , " wash " , " Dopp " or " washing " bag or kit ( depending on where you live and to some extent your gender , though the bags are generally gender neutral . ) Search with that and you should find a ton . Or go into a department store and take a look in the luggage section .
end question
start question
How to handle the laptop in destination events if traveling with a carry-on ?
I am operating with an MLC backpack both on plane and at conference and if it 's slightly larger than the locals daypack -- oh well . It would work less well with a rolling carry on of course . eBags Mother Lode Convertible ( I used this before ) , Tortuga , Patagonia etc etc the list is endless of these backpacks . ( I am experimenting with a Magma Control-Backpack XL currently but unless you also want to carry on a 19.5 " monitor , that 's probably not the best choice . ) Another solution is to put the 240gr Bach Itsy Bitsy backpack ( which I also have ) in the carry on ( or checked in ) . The backpack is big enough : even my T420 laptop + sleeve fit in there and provides structure . Your laptop is likely thinner and lighter . Unlike most such collapsible backpacks this is strategically reinforced where necessary so while it 's very low weight you can carry like 4-5 kgs in it without a problem . Probably even more but I did n't dare to test further . Finally , you can just carry your normal laptop backpack ( my choice is the Briggs &amp; Riley Verb Activate but many are good choices , this just happens to be the best :P ) and a small duffel ( there 's no competition here , the Red Oxx XS Aviator is where it is ) as a personal item and check in everything else in a suitcase . I did this before as well .
Presenting the card and running a transaction on the card are different things . I bought some show tickets a while back , changed the card , but kept the old card for ticket pickup . The company just wanted to match the numbers on the transaction to the numbers on the piece of plastic , the transaction was run at the time of purchase . People change / lose / expire cards every day , and no airline is going to wait until departure to take your money . Just keep the old card after you cancel it .
It has an impact , but it is n't problematic . The Sabbath runs from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown , though in practice it could extend from Friday afternoon to Sunday morning . In planning your trip , it is much like planning in other countries where shops are closed on Sundays or museums are only open on certain days . The key thing is to plan your time carefully around these limitations . From our trip to Israel , I was probably most surprised by the fairly large Arab population . Since their holy day is on Friday , their shops are open on Saturday during the Sabbath and the Jewish shops are open on Friday when the Arab shops are closed . At least in the places we visited , there was always something that was open . I think the most problematic aspect of the Sabbath in our trip planning was public transport . However , we ended up renting a car , so it was n't a concern for us .
No , <URL> . However , <URL> if you 're carrying a lot of currency or other valuables in order to prevent drawing attention to items that could be stolen . This is probably good advice since you are separated from your luggage for a bit at the checkpoint , especially if you get stuck waiting in a slower-than-normal line for the scanner after placing your baggage on the conveyor . I 've heard that the United States government can and is seizing any amount of cash over a certain dollar amount at airports . That is definitely not true . They may be curious why you 're carrying $ 30k in cash and may ask you about it , but they will not ( and , legally , can not ) seize it unless they have probable cause to believe that you have committed or are about to commit a crime and that said cash is reasonably likely to be evidence of said crime . If they do have probable cause to suspect a crime , then they can refer the matter to law enforcement and keep you around until law enforcement gets there to question you . From the TSA Management Directive copied into page 19 of <URL> : When currency appears to be indicative of criminal activity , TSA may report the matter to the appropriate authorities . For all flights , factors indicating that cash is related to criminal activity include the quantity , packaging , circumstances of discovery , or method by which the cash is carried , including concealment ... TSA may also note any factors related to criminal activity for purposes of notifying CBP [ for international passengers ] and/or law enforcement , as well as request that the individual remain accessible pursuant to such notification . Of course the best advice is probably to simply not carry large amounts of currency with you when you fly in the first place . If you carry it on , it could be stolen at the checkpoint either by a TSA agent or by another passenger . TSA does n't keep track of whose bag is whose when they go through the conveyor . If someone grabs your bag or takes something out of it before you clear the scanner , they are n't going to know that the bag does n't belong to that person until it 's too late . For checked luggage , you are separated from it from the time you check in until you get to the baggage carousel at your destination . Airline agents , TSA agents , baggage handlers , ground crew , etc. at each airport you transit have access to your bags when you ca n't see them , so it would be nearly impossible for you to catch the culprit if someone decided to help themselves to some cash . If you do have to fly with large amounts of cash , <URL> has useful advice .
I found <URL> that addresses this very question : If you are entering the United States , you may be stopped by the Customs and Border Protection Officer at the inspection booth if the officer sees an arrest or fingerprint record reported in the database . That officer may take you to a separate interview area . As with the visa application , it is essential that you have with you documents issued by the court that address the original charges , and the subsequent disposition of the case . A letter from the lawyer who assisted you , that explains the charges and the judgment is also helpful . So long story short . If you check this box because you have been arrested you should have documentation that this was the case of mistaken identity or you have been released with no criminal issues pending . According to the page I linked above the consular services actually can ( in some cases ) perform a full background checks before considering granting you a visa .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
<URL> : Passenger : Dear Lufthansa My sister is flying with Lufthansa on Thursday , from Johannesburg to Zagreb . She will be flying with her musical instrument , the violin . Please let me know how we can get permission for her to take her violin on board as hand luggage , as she can not let it out of her sight , even for a second . In the past , it was no problem to take it on board , but lately I know of some challenges . The violin in its case is les than 2 kg . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , if your sister is travelling in Economy Class , then she is allowed to bring on piece of hand luggage into the cabin . The maximum weight is 8 kg and the maximum dimensions are 55 cm x 40 cm x 23 cm . If these restrictions are not exceeded than it should n't be a problem to bring her violin into the cabin . More information about hand luggage can be found here : <URL> Passenger : Thank you . The dimensions are 15 x 25 x 85 though . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , as one of the given dimensions is exceeded I ca n't guarantee from my side that your sister will be allowed to bring her violin into the cabin . This decision needs to be made by my colleagues at the airport . So it 's going to depend on what size your case is , I suspect , and the feelings of staff at the airport , on the day , as to whether it 's allowed as carry-on . As for checking it , Lufthansa , like other airlines does their utmost to ensure it 's safe . However , airports employ non-airline staff to handle luggage , so sometimes it 's out of Lufthansa 's control . In the event it IS damaged ( unlikely but possible ) , <URL> : Report the damage immediately at the airport Make a subsequent complaint about damage and that they 'll compensate you <URL> - roughly 1200 Euros , which can fluctuate . So ideally you 'll want good travel insurance , with your instrument itemised on that policy beforehand , with photos and details to prove it before you depart .
BC Ferries posts a <URL> for major routes based on historical data . The information is very limited , though . For example , for Tsawwassen ( mainland ) → Swartz Bay ( Victoria ) , expected busy departures over the next two weeks are : Thursday 2015-07-30 : 11am to 8pm Friday 2015-07-31 : 11am to 9pm Saturday 2015-08-01 : 9am to 3pm Sunday 2015-08-02 : not too busy Monday 2015-08-03 ( BC Day holiday ) : noon to 6pm Tuesday 2015-08-04 : 10am to 6pm Whether that means you should make a reservation or not depends on your own risk tolerance .
No . At an unplanned refuelling stop , the crew will be focused exclusively on landing , getting fuel on board , and taking off again . There will not be disembarkation services , including no jet bridge , no ramp bus , no barriers set up to guide you to immigration , etc. . Unless there is a medical emergency , you 're not getting off the plane .
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
As Jonathan 's answer mentions , pretty much all police officers open carry firearms in the U.S. ( pistols on their belt . ) Other than that , however , seeing people visibly carry their firearms is very rare in the U.S. ( unless you 're at a gun range or some such thing . ) I live in one of the most gun-friendly parts of the U.S. and I almost never see a firearm carried openly in public , other than by police . Lots of people carry firearms , but nearly all of them carry them concealed where you will not see them . It is also very unlikely that you will see armed soldiers carrying rifles patrolling in public in the U.S. as you may have seen in France . The only times I 've ever seen that in person in the U.S. were when the President was about to step off of Air Force One within sight of where I was sitting and briefly in airports after 9/11 ( and ceremonially at Arlington National Cemetery , if you count that . ) You will not see armed soldiers in airports nowadays , though , except in very rare situations ( such as the President landing there . ) Soldiers patrolling airports in the U.S. only happened for maybe a few months to a year or so after the September 11 attacks .
First of all , I want to note that my city ( Saint-Petersburg ) can be a great place at any time , if you have a good company for it :) Also , see the <URL> ( in English ) . Climate Weather in Saint-Petersburg is in somewhat similar to <URL> , but with some differences . Here the air humidity always over 80 % , and this is quite uncomfortable during temperature peaks , either during winter or summer . Also you should be prepared to any weather during the day - sometimes we have a rain on one side of the street , and sun on the other side . So a backpack with umbrella and clothes will be useful even during the summer . According this , the average temperatures are quite useless for you in our city - at the end of this April we had +15 ° C during the day , and -1 ° C during the night - and you should always remember about such strange behavior . I think this two sites can help you during your journey : <URL> - popular site with weather forecasts , but sometimes not very accurate . <URL> - much more scientific and accurate forecasts , but only for a week ahead . As for me , Saint-Petersburg has four general seasons : From the middle of January till the middle of April . The hardest time for anybody - snowy and rainy cold weather with long dark nights and short days . Even during spring snow and cold weather are still here . Cultural events are rare and not very popular among the tourists . Many people have their vacations outside the city and ( in general ) outside the country . From the middle of April till the middle of the July . The opposite side of the seasons - the greatest time during the year . Warm weather comes rapidly , the city became beautiful and much more friendly . Famous <URL> come to the city step by step , city birthday is celebrated , and many tourists are in the city . But be aware of poplar fluff - it can be annoying . From the middle of July till the middle of October . Personally my favorite time . Summer heat is going down , nights are still short and comfortable , tourists crowds are dissapearing from day to day . After fall came , parks and gardens are very beautiful . This time of year called <URL> in English , but in Ruassian it has other name : " Bab ` ye Leto " ( Woman 's summer ) , and the city is very romantic during this time of the year : From the middle of October till the middle of January . This time also is not for tourism in general . Some days are still warm and sunny , but from November 's start the only time you should visit St. Petersburg is a Christmas ( either Catolic or Orthodox Christianity ) and New Year . The city is very beautiful this time , and there are a lot of small and big fests you can visit : Amount of tourists I 'll use the same periods , so here we go : The late winter and early spring is not quite popular among the tourists , and I can understand them :) From the middle of April , as the weather is going be better , the tourist crowds are more and more huge , and in June we have a peek of them . For example , right now the weather is warm , no rain , no wind , temperature is near +23 ° C - most comfortable for anyone here . So this time city is quite popular among the tourists . From the middle of July the White Nights are fade away , tourist crowds are smaller and smaller , but the city are still beautiful , weather still good , with rare rains . Good time for a walk , sightseeing and so on . Visit Saint-Petersburg in late autumn and winter is very risky trip . I recommend you only the Christmas and New Year time - its beautiful here , and the temperature is n't very hard for you . Festivals / Cultural events Generally , you can find a cultural event at any day of year here . Some cinema fests , music tours , picture showings , book presentations , and so on , and so on . For example , this year : <URL> <URL> ( in Russian or German ) <URL> ( In Russian ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) This is only I found in a 5 minutes . Make a local contacts , get information , and welcome to Saint-Petersburg .
not ARE , but CAN BE . If asked and you ca n't turn it on , it can be confiscated . No reason to risk it , just charge the darn thing before you leave and have the battery in .
I ca n't imagine any reason why you could not . Playing poker for money in the US may or may not be legal , depending on the state and the details of your game ( I am not a lawyer so can not advise you on specifics ) . But the chips themselves are perfectly legal . You can buy them at any game store , or the game section of a large store like Target . High quality poker chips are heavy , and airlines limit the weight of your luggage , so make sure you are under their limits to avoid steep extra fees . You may want to consider just buying a new set in the US .
It would depend on the security officer that checks you in and the country where your flight originates . <URL> especially cast iron ones it 's check only as evidenced in a <URL> . TSA also has a mobile app now that you can look at . But since it 's a flight originating from another country TSA rules may not apply so originating country 's rules will have to be followed . Based on additional information There is nothing specific regarding skillets for <URL> so they may allow skillet through but I would still put it into a checked bag or just ship it home .
" Big ships " ( e.g. cruise ships ) , have very specific needs . Your chances of getting a job with one of them soar if you can meet one of those needs . " Recreational sailor " probably does n't " cut it " in this regard . Sailing ships need professionals . Most ships have computer and internet services . Your best shot may be at an IT role , but there may be more applicants than places . If you have hardware maintenance experience and are handy with tools ( you 're sailing experience suggests you are ) , you might be able to land a job in general maintenance . If you have an " esoteric " science backround ( e.g. in electrical engineering ) , that could be helpful . Otherwise , you 'd need to get job in some form of " customer service . " This could be manning the booking desks , or even cleaning rooms or " waitstaffing . " Make it clear that you expect very little pay , just " room and board " and some walking around money . You will be competing for these roles with candidates from developing countries . As for contact , I 'd stay away from the agencies , which have their own interests and not yours . Most of the shipping lines like to recruit at key ports ( not in the U.S. ) . Vancouver comes to mind for a Canadian . Otherwise London , Amsterdam , Hamburg , Hong Kong . Maybe somewhere off the beaten track such as Gdansk or Oslo . Good luck .
I phoned TfL to find the answer to this . It 's simple and straightforward : The rate depends on when you touch in . Peak fares apply from 06:30 to 09:29 and from 16:00 to 18:59 Monday to Friday ( excluding public holidays ) . Off-peak fares apply at all other times . That is , if you touch in during those two three-hour periods , you will be charged the peak fare . If your journey starts in off-peak time but strays into the peak period , it 's still an off-peak fare .
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
Here 's a <URL> I found which would explain your options in detail . As far as options go , you have several . Now since you mentioned you do n't want to do check in luggage , you can either carry it on you or in your cabin luggage . Fold it Up - This is what I usually do . Now I admit that doing the same in a cabin luggage is a little bit difficult but most cabin luggage which completely utilize the dimensions allowed on typical international flights would suffice . Of course you will have to fold your suit into a quarter to fit it in though . Wear It ! - It 's a great option especially because it shifts a lot of weight from your suitcase to yourself allowing you extra room to carry other stuff . The good part about this option is that you look great ! The bad part , your suit might get wrinkled on a long flight ( Not the best option if you have a meeting the next day ) . Roll It ! - I have n't personally tried this one , but I 'm a bit skeptical regarding whether the suit would not wrinkle or come out as mush . I would n't like to try this in the near future either though . But it does save a lot of space . Hanging Bag - I 've tried this one too , but I would n't recommend it at all , simply because it 's too painful and it might count as a separate item ( akin to a laptop bag or a guitar ) . Policies on airlines differ regarding it as well , but it is theoretically the best way ( for your suit ) to do it .
Kayak features a convenient map through their <URL> page : <URL> All flights shown on the map are direct .
end question
start question
Multi-bedroom or separate bedroom/living room areas at Orlando theme parks ?
I found that Disney has a <URL> listing rooms suitable for larger groups . All of these have a suite layout with one or more bedrooms separate from a lounge area that generally includes a sofa bed in some form .
Recycle the card however you wish . Those things are ephemeral and ca n't be used anyway after you check out and the hotel probably buys them in bulk . And by " ca n't be used " , I mean that your checkout date is encoded onto the card key and the room locks will reject any attempt to open the door past an expired checkout date in the same manner that you ca n't open someone else 's door while you are at the hotel ( or your own effin door half the time while you are still checked in ) . That does not mean these keys ca n't be re-programmed with new room or checkout information . If you pay attention you will see the desk clerk shove the room key into a small box with a numeric key pad and hit a few keys et voilà you have a freshly programmed key ready to use ( again ) . However if the key is physically damaged and wo n't take the reprogramming then the next stop is for it the rubbish bin . Here is a random link that claims to explain how these keys work <URL> This of course raises the question of how easy it is to program a key in order to enter a room that is not yours . The funny thing is that while obvious , this question is actually moot as it is trivial to attack the lock itself with a simple electronic tool that exploits a fundamental design flaw in the how the locks themselves are programmed . Such a tool allows you to open all such locks with ease . I 'll leave tracking down that exploit to the interested reader Hotels are aware of this flaw , but it is going to be a long time before they roll out new door locks for every door that uses this style of pass key . Especially as a lot of hotels ca n't even seem to keep up with regular maintenance of normal in-room equipment .
I was a night auditor ( see <URL> ) at two different hotels on the Central Coast of California ( specifically , San Luis Obispo and Pismo Beach ) in the mid-1990s . While some things ( mostly the technology ) has changed , most things are about the same . It would really help to know where you will be traveling , because California is such a diverse and huge place ( larger than many states and even entire countries ! ) . Weeks 30-32 are July 22-August 11 , which is the middle of summer . That 's better for finding a room than than June . From late May through mid-June , you have a lot of formal dances and graduations . If those events hit around the same time in an area , you may find that all the rooms have sold out in the entire region . For example , the graduation weekend for Cal Poly SLO ( a top university ) will result in sold-out rooms from Paso Robles ( nearly the northern border of SLO County ) through Santa Barbara ( middle of the next county south ) , which means you might have to drive well over an hour to find a hotel room if you did not plan ahead . I know this , because I had to literally call every hotel and motel I could think of to try to find a family a room that weekend . I finally did , but it was in Ventura ( 1.5 hours south ) . Night auditors are great resources . Especially on weekends , we keep track of ( or at least generally know ) which hotels have vacancy . If you arrive late , ask the person at the desk for recommendations . You might pay more ( usually the larger , more expensive hotels have vacancies when the smaller ones sell out ) . I also found that some B&amp;B s ( bed and breakfast ) had rooms left when the mainstream hotels were full . I sometimes had guests call me back to thank me for " upgrading " their vacation to a B&amp;B ( which they would not have thought of on their own ) . Bear in mind that you will be in about the warmest ( hottest ) part of the year , especially if you are visiting Southern California or the Central Valley . Temperatures may reach 100F ( 30C ) or higher ( especially in early August ) . The deserts will climb even higher , but drop to chilly temperatures at night . However , along the coast you will likely experience cool , foggy days in the 60-68F range . In the Sierra Nevada mountains , days may be quite warm ( 80F ) , nights cold ( 40F ) , with sudden thunderstorms or even rain . That also is fire season , so you may find areas you want to visit closed or undesirable due fires or heavy smoke in the air . The countryside will probably be brown and dry looking -- quite different from the lush green fields that you would see now ( in mid-March ) . Be sure to pack for a variety of weather conditions . Most hotels have laundry facilities on-site ( coin operated washers and dryers mostly , with upscale establishments offering dry cleaning ) , so you can get by with fewer clothes , but more variety . Layer your clothes . Bring tee-shirts , khaki pants ( like Dockers ) , a polo shirt or blouse , a nylon windbreaker , and , depending on where you travel , shorts , a long-sleeve dressier shirt , and maybe a medium-weight jacket . If you plan to visit high-end restaurants or night clubs , or if you will be visiting the San Francisco Bay Area , you might want to bring a complete set of dress clothing . Shoes can range from sandals/flip-flops , to sneakers or running shoes with good traction ( for the beach or hiking ) , to casual dress ( for evenings and dressier places ) . In the middle of summer , you probably do not HAVE to make reservations except on the weekends or if you plan to stay near the ocean , or a major attraction ( Disneyland , Napa , San Francisco , Sea World , etc. ) , or an airport . If you are visiting a small town , and there are limited hotels , I 'd also recommend a reservation . Weekdays ( Sunday night through Thursday night ) usually have lower occupancy rates , but , again , local events or conditions could quickly sell out all the available rooms . Most hotels will provide you ( if you ask ) a complimentary 6pm ( or 4pm if they are stingy ) hold for no charge , no credit card required . They know that they can almost certainly let a room between 6 and midnight , even if you do not show up . Be careful about giving out your credit card , because they WILL charge you for one night if you do n't show and do n't cancel by the required time . Note that a reservation guaranteed with a credit card is not a 100 % guarantee that you will have a room waiting for you . Many hotels offer their front desk staff incentives to fully occupy the hotel on weekends . That means a person staying in every room , even if there are no-shows ! It comes down to the front desk staff making guesses on how likely someone is going to show up or not . If you are going to be late , let the hotel know ! If it is after 8 PM , call the hotel to let them know ( or remind them ) that you are going to be late . If it is after 10 PM , call them again . If it 's after midnight and a weekend , call again . Seriously . You will be charged , of course , but at least you will have a room whenever you finally drag in . Final
If you buy/rent a motorbike in Vietnam do they have ones with the abilities to strap on a large backpacking backpack ? A lot of South Asian countries have a collection of powerful pre/post war bikes which carried on production locally after the wars ended . Those were very accomadating bikes . For ex , does this ( googled ) bike 's setup offer you enough storage space ? <URL> If that was n't enough , you can also opt for a motorcyle with a side car : <URL> Such bike mods are pretty common in many South East Asian countries ( Pakistan , India , Nepal , Bangladesh , Thailand , Burma etc ) . Unlike in US , many people over there travel luggage heavy on motorcycles and finding such a bike for rent should n't be a problem in a tourist place . I 've seen just regular motorbikes without any attachments for carrying luggage , but I 'm assuming if two people can ride a bike then there 's no reason a single person could n't travel with a bag right ? Oh yes , there should be no problem at all , from my experience in Asian countries so far . For specific local laws you will have to look up their motorcycle law manual . But as a general observation , it would n't matter .
The answer is both yes and no . Outside Bangkok , Thailand has only two roads that are " real " controlled-access , grade-separated motorways : Route 7 from Bangkok to Pattaya ( 150km ) , which has ( AFAIK ) Thailand 's solitary " real " rest area as well , and Route 5 , which loops around Bangkok 's periphery and which you 're unlikely to venture onto . So , no , you 're not going to find any " real " rest areas driving up from Malaysia to Bangkok . On the other hand , Thailand 's main highways are the country 's lifeblood and are thus full of gas stations , restaurants , motels , etc. . Quite a few of these cater more or less explicitly to buses and travelers and are thus rest areas in all but name , so yes , you can almost always find gas , a meal or a place to sleep when you need one . Not quite as good for hitchhiking as the real thing though ...
I believe , all jokes aside , you have four options : Try to ignore it . Obviously , you 're trying this already and it 's not working . But you could turn the tv on , listen to some music , or take a sleeping tablet if you have one . Passive aggressive behaviour . Turn the tv or music up really loudly . Bang on the wall . Hope they 'll take the hint . Cheer them on ! Decide to take delight in exacting your own form <URL> . Order them some food ! Indirect/Direct confrontation . You could yell at them to shut up , that people are trying to sleep , but I 've seen this be ignored even in dorms . You could go around to their room ( since you 've tried the phone ) and knock on the door , and explain the situation and that they 're being unreasonably loud - they may not even realise that the sound is carrying that well ! ( from <URL> ) Use the resources available to you in a nice hotel - call reception . Tell them that you called before and nothing happened , that it 's still going on and that they 're banging on the wall ( you do n't need to say what you think is happening , just that the effect is keeping you up ) , and will they please send someone to knock on the door and tell them there 's been a complaint . More than likely , 3 and 4 are your best bets for a quick response , and # 4 is the most likely to keep you calm - a bad confrontation while you 're overtired ( ala # 3 ) may not be the best thing for you .
The operating airline of the next segment is responsible for rerouting you if you are delayed . In this case on arrival at YYZ you will need to talk to Air Georgian . You can either go to the transfer desk to discuss it or over to their ticketing/check-in counter in departures . If you know that FRA-YYZ is going to be delayed but you can see an alternative way of getting to MCI , then you should be proactive in talking to Air Canada ( your next carrier ) about rerouting options as soon as you can . But in this circumstance I doubt there is anything faster than going to YYZ and waiting for another MCI flight . You may find that the airline has rebooked you automatically . In many parts of the world someone would be waiting to greet you when you land in YYZ with your new boarding passes in hand and an apology . However , at YYZ I think you will need to find the airline representative yourself .
The beauty of the Internet is such that your location is basically irrelevant when it comes to looking at things . Actually taking action is a little bit harder - but not impossibly so . As such , I would suggest : Use Mint for overall asset tracking . Use an online bank in your home country , and remain subject to them . If you are from the United States , for example , keeping your home bank account is the simplest - and use ATMs to withdraw cash only when needed . Use a credit card that minimizes foreign transaction fees and has good exchange rates . The general idea is that you do n't want to convert currencies unless needed . If you want to see your USD balance in Rupees or Rubles , by all means , but consider your stashes in two separate piles . If you have local currency assets , think of them in the local currency . If you want to convert back to the home currency , choose a good time to do it , and leave it there . But the two currencies really are separate buckets , and should n't be confused unless you really need to .
When I landed at Vic Falls the options I was given is $ 30USD for single entry or $ 45USD for double entry . The prices were the same for the Americans , Swiss and Germans I spoke to in the queue . A point to note , there was one immigration officer charging people for a double entry and placing a single entry visa in there passport and writing them a receipt for a double so it pays to check the visa as its going in .
In general you should n't see what you 're seeing here - especially for multiple dates , which makes me think that it 's possibly either a website error , or a scam of some form . Airlines do have multiple prices for each flight , and a limited number of seats available in each class . ie , one specific flight might have 5 seats available for $ 100 , another 10 seats for $ 200 , another 10 for $ 400 , and the remaining seats for $ 600 . The earlier you book , the better your chances of getting the lower fares . Over time they may change the number of seats in each class - such as if the flight has a lot of free seats and they are n't selling at the top prices they might move them back down to the lower levels . * If it happens that there 's exactly 1 seat left at a particular price , and you try and buy 2 seats , most travel websites will bump BOTH tickets up to the higher price . So based on what you 're seeing it 's possible that there 's only 1 seat left at $ 350 , and trying to get 2 bumps you up to the $ 600 price . However the odds of that being the case on multiple dates is low . In general the cheapest place to buy airfares within the US is the airline itself . If you check there do you see the same low price you 're seeing on despegar.com ? * This is an oversimplification of how things actually work , but it 's close enough for you to get the idea . Google for airline inventory management for more details .
While I ca n't really help with a flight + hotel combo , however , I can suggest <URL> ( not affiliated , I just compete there ) for the flights . You 're able to customise your request , so you could potentially ask for people to find you the cheapest double flight ( yours and hers ) for you to meet up . It 'd be an interesting contest at least ... just a thought . Failing that , what I used to do in Europe was to go to <URL> and enter London in the source , specify a date , and hit go . It then ( by not specifying a destination ) shows you the cheapest countries available on those dates . You can do that for both source places ( yours and hers ) in two different windows and see where the cheapest destinations match up . Then head on to <URL> and find a place to stay :)
Hotels usually have a full legally regulated rate ( the one posted on the inside of the door inside the room ) , a walk in rate ( what they charge if you just show up ) and an advance booking rate . The full rate that is posted is usually equal to the walk in rate during peak season and , with the exception of a holiday surcharge ( NYE , Xmas , etc ) , is the highest amount they can legally charge for that room . The walk in rate varies depending on the season , during shoulder season in Hawai'i it could be quite a bit lower than during peak summer season . While this rate is usually a set amount , most front desks have some leeway to discount that rate if the hotel has low occupancy . The discounted rates offered by the hotel for advance bookings through its own website vs the rates offered through OTAs , like Agoda or Expedia , etc are becoming more equal as time goes by . The primary advantage of OTAs is being able to look at multiple options on one page AND since OTAs have blocks of rooms they committed to , they will offer the same discounted rate right up to check in day . Hawai'i is busy but not totally sold out , with the exception of the peak seasons , you can find rooms available in most areas upon arrival . And even during peak summer and the new year period , there will be some room to be had somewhere . Personally I would book my first stay before leaving for the islands , just for the ease of arriving and relaxing instead of hunting down rooms . Then as you piece together your next location , get online with the OTAs booking.com , hotels.com , agoda.com etc and see what they have available . If rooms are available you can book them right up until you arrive at the hotel . You can also use the price the OTAs quote as bargaining material if you want to walk in and book direct with the hotel . And if you spot a really cool hotel while wandering around but the front desk tells you they have no rooms , check with the OTAs as they may have space in their blocks still , which the front desk ca n't access to sell direct .
Normally it is not required to have Visa tourist in advance for USA , Canada and most of Europe . But this is only for Tourist visa , any other visa ( work , businesses , diplomatic , ... ) should be arranged in advance . Also this is for normal passports , official or diplomatic passports need advance visa . Tourist visa can be stamped in all main airports for : UK citizens : # 15 US citizens : US$ 15 Australian citizens : A$ 45 Canadian citizens : C$ 25 other countries : $ 15 Lately there are talks in Egypt about needing arranged Visa for solo-travelers . Which means that people travel in tourist groups will not require arranged visa . To be sure , I think it is better to give a call to <URL> .
Not all of them do . It definitely depends on which site you use , and what style of accommodation you are after . Generally , people going on holiday often have someone with them - a significant other , so often it 's based on 2 people sharing . Especially vacation prices . However , if you 're looking for say , hostels , it 's on a per-person basis ( eg <URL> ) . And if you 're looking at hotels for a single person , <URL> allows you to sort on a per-single-person room for prices , which I 've found useful in the past .
I think your friends are rather misinformed . I am unaware of parks closing at any point during the year apart from the occasional holiday or similar occurrence . For example , the Oka national park is open all year round as can be seen here : Parc national d'Oka is open year-round from 8 a.m. until sunset . <URL> Basically , visit the information page of the parks you want to visit beforehand to confirm that it will indeed be open ( they sometimes close for special occasions , but these are rare ) and you will be fine . There is no reason for the national parks to be closed during the color changes . Do keep in mind that , as Michael Seifert mentioned , the colors do not always coincide with the Indian summer . As for where you can visit , I recommend you visit <URL> , but also <URL> and <URL> . The first is not a national park , but both are nearby Montreal ( about 30 minutes by car ) and feature some of the most beautiful scenery in the area . Personally , I prefer Mont-Saint-Hilaire as it is taller and features more rugged terrain , but Mont-Saint-Bruno is perfect for a relaxed hike . Hope you have a beautiful trip !
Legally , you can book a hotel room if you are 18 in the state of Washington . I believe this is true in most parts of the U.S. , but there may be exceptions for particular states . Some hotels have policies with a higher minimum age , such as 21 . However , this is far from universal . You might have to do a little bit of extra research , including checking hotel websites , emailing , or calling for confirmation . However , I do n't think you 'll have a big problem finding a room .
Also it is more likely to get a jet bridge when traveling with the local airline . Say you are leaving Stockholm for some obscure Balkan city . You will always get a jet bridge at arlanda so do n't travel with SAS in that case . Use the Balkan airline that is more likey to get to use one of the two jet bridges at it 's hypothetical home airport .
I might contribute some inside knowledge since I am working for a company which contributed the software for a major cheap-flight company . Generally the prices are determined by offer and the demand BUT there is another major variable ( in fact several ) in the game for short-booking . Statistics show that most ( 80 % ) last-minute bookers are in an important need for the short booking and therefore willing to pay more . So the function which generates the price for short-bookings is not a complete function of offer and demand any more like it was years ago . If you want to know what 's the deal do the following : Go to your online bookers homepage . Search for a flight which is taking off today and try to book that ticket . With this you firstly know how short you can book online and secondly if the prices are acceptable for you . Your question is also highly location dependant . In the country I live ( Switzerland ) I get the cheapest flights through a friend who works at the airport and calls me when a certain flight is available . I can only recommend trying both the online and physical approach .
UPDATE : On the Allegro train , by default , they placed the entry stamp on a separate page - I saw it happen to a Spanish citizen who was checked before me . However , I politely asked the officer , in broken Russian , to stamp the visa instead ( " pozhaluista shtamp na visa , niet drugoj stranitsa " ) , and she was perfectly OK doing so . Same thing when exiting for Kazakhstan . Below is a picture of my visa with stamps <URL>
Delhi is a Modern Indian city with a population of about 15 million people . If you have been to Delhi , you must have noticed the amount of traffic in the city . Even though it is true that cows are worshiped in Hindu Mythology , they are an inconvenience for the flow of traffic . Over time they have been moved away from Delhi and now you wo n't find them on most roads . If you go into the village sections of Delhi , you will still find them in many households but this practice is also decreasing due to unavailability of grazing land . 15 years ago , Delhi had much more cows than now . Agra is a relatively older city which is much less developed . It is not only smaller than Delhi but it more traditional that it . There is a good availability of grazing lands near Agra so you will still find many cows on the street even though they are an inconvenience to traffic . Official removal efforts were also made in Delhi in order to prevent Cows and Buffalo within the city center . Conscious efforts by citizens were also made in order to prevent deaths of Cows . Traffic usually waits when cows are crossing roads as a mark of respect but every once in a while some lunatic crashes into one . It 's simply a step into modernization and reducing inconveniences to both kinds of species . Everything else apart , I was born and brought up in Delhi and have visited Agra several times as well . I truly cherish both cities and find that each has its own beauty . Hope this helps !
end question
start question
Can I travel to Sweden as a UK passport holding resident ?
British Citizens ( which I presume you are ) <URL> Moreover , as an EU citizen , your rights under <URL> allow you to stay for up to three months as a visitor , and as long as you wish provided you are working , or can demonstrate that you are capable of supporting yourself and will not be a burden on the host state . It would be sensible however to also take with you at a minimum <URL> , which will cover you for emergency care only in the EU , provided you are a visitor . Note that the EHIC does not cover you for many instances that actual travel insurance would .
Probably not ( but it does not hurt to ask ) . RyanAir as actually a Q/A section that answers the question " can i book a seat for my luggage " . If taken verbatim this seems to apply almost exclusively to musical instruments , you would need to ask if your CP30 falls under those exceptions . However they give maximum dimensions , so if your robot exceeds those you already have your answer . From <URL> . Sporting or musical equipment including but not limited to large fishing rods , golf clubs , bikes * ( bikes have a weight limit of 30 kilos ) , scooters , fencing equipment , boules , pole vaults , javelin , surfboards , bodyboards , snowboards and skis and large musical instruments including but not limited to harps , double bass and drums are inherently unsuitable for carriage by airlines operating fast turnarounds such as Ryanair . However , these items may be carried in the hold of the aircraft in addition to your personal checked baggage allowance up to a limit of 20 kilos per item . Fees apply , click here for details . Any sporting and musical item weighing over the 20 kilos allowance will be charged for the excess at the applicable excess baggage rate per kilo . Bicycles - MUST be contained in a protective box or protective bike bag in order to be accepted for travel . Electric bicycles can not be transported by plane . Smaller musical items such as a guitar , violin or viola which exceed our cabin baggage dimensions may be carried in the cabin if a seat for it has been reserved and the appropriate fare paid . There is no checked or cabin baggage allowance associated with the purchase of an extra seat . To book an extra seat for an item the word " ITEM SEAT " must be entered as the surname and " EXTRA " must be entered at the first name . EXTRA ITEM SEAT will then be displayed on the reservation and online boarding pass . The accompanying passenger 's travel document details must be entered during the online check - in process . Reserved seating in emergency rows 1,16 and 17 may not be purchased if you have purchased an extra seat for item/comfort . For health and safety reasons Ryanair does not accept for carriage any individual item exceeding 32 kilos or with combined dimensions of more than 81cms ( height ) , 119cms ( width ) and 119cms ( depth ) . This weight limit does not apply to mobility equipment .
<URL> You can apply for a General Visitor visa if you 're : 18 or over travelling to the UK for leisure ( not work or study ) able to support yourself for the duration of your trip not in transit to another country , except for Ireland , the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands able to pay for your return or onward journey I might go to the UK and not come back because I might not have enough funds to return to Egypt which is not true That is your assumption . How do you intend to prove it to the visa officer ? You have to give proof to support your point . evidence that you can support yourself during your trip , eg bank statements or payslips for the last 6 months details of where you intend to stay and your travel plans - you should n't pay for accommodation or travel until you get your visa dad 's job or mine As you are the one who is travelling , you have to reveal your financial situation , not your father 's . wanted to visit my cousin , she lives there plus I need to go on a vacation You can not claim to take a vacation as a right and so demand a visa . You have to provide evidence to support your case . If you intend to stay with your cousin , then you will have to provide his ( her ) details too . If you decide to apply for a family visitor visa a letter of invitation from him ( her ) will be required . My mum wrote my application Next time fill your application yourself . Regarding reapplying ( no need to wait for 6 months , I have n't seen any evidence for such till now ) , reapply with the proper documentation . Err on the side of caution and be diligent in providing proof to support your application . Check the link on gov.uk and follow it to the letter .
While this looks like a duplicate , it seems likely the OP is a minor , or someone posting on behalf of a minor . The TSA rules for ID for minors are different . <URL> TSA does not require children under 18 to provide identification when traveling with a companion within the United States . Contact the airline for questions regarding specific ID requirements for travelers under 18 . A school teacher probably fits the " companion " requirement .
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
As noted before , Ireland is not part of the UK nor of Schengen . Though , Northern Ireland is part of the UK , but again , the UK is also not part of Schengen . Ireland and the UK have their own Common Travel Area , in which there are no permanent border controls between the two countries . As an Indian citizen , you may be eligible for the <URL> . Under this scheme , if you have a UK visa , you may use it to travel from the UK to Ireland , and if you have an Irish visa , you may use it to travel from Ireland to the UK . Anyone who is eligible and applies for one of these visas will generally receive a " BIVS " endorsement on their visa automatically , unless they are ineligible ( e.g. they were previously removed from one of the two countries ) . If you do not get a BIVS endorsement , then you must also apply for a visa for the other country if you wish to travel to it . The main thing to remember with the British Irish Visa Scheme is that you must always enter the Common Travel Area via the country which issued the visa . Only then can you travel to the other country . For instance , if you have an Irish visa , then on each journey you must always clear immigration in Ireland before going to the UK , and if you have a UK visa you must always clear immigration in the UK before going to Ireland . But you may exit the Common Travel Area via either country . You can apply for an Irish visa by following the <URL> , or you can <URL> .
I 'd certainly submit that document . It might not be a government/airline , but it 's some evidence with your name on it indicating where and when you were . The suggested documents are useful because they 're common , accurate and hard to forge . They 're also often available . However , many people ( most ? ) do n't keep boarding passes , and in that case emails and bookings from hostels/hotels might suffice as well . It 's to provide reasonable indication - it 's not a court case ( yet ) and as such , providing what evidence you have , and a supplementary note if you feel it would help is always a good idea . In my experience , more information is better than gaps - gaps or missing info raises questions . If you have a document that answers those questions , that 's better for all involved .
You may leave without an American passport . The United States does not have a government exit procedure , so at airport check-in , you would be showing whichever passport would be more convenient for your country of destination . If you were returning to the UK , for example , your UK passport would be better ( although since US citizens do not need advance visa for UK , not that much better ) . Supposing you were a dual USA-Ruritania citizen and Ruritania requires advance visas for Americans , the advantage of the Ruritanian passport would be obvious . You must , however , use your replacement USA passport when you next come into the United States .
Is it possible to legally obtain a second , fake passport ? The legality of obtaining a fake passport depends upon where you obtain it . I have seen market stalls in Cairo ready to sell any document you want legality notwithstanding . Not a market stall , but there 's ' paper shops ' in Belarus doing the same thing . For you it 's a transaction like a souvenir , for the people who make them it 's a different story . However , to have one in your possession in the EU ( including the UK ) is illegal , even if you did n't use it . If not , is it possible to obtain a second , real passport in a fully legal fashion ? ( This is my preference if possible . ) This is common with people who need lots of visas so they flip-flop them to travel on one passport when the other is tied up in an application pipeline . You simply need a premise . With respect to your strategy , consider this scenario ... You are at your relatives and give your parents a fake passport . You miss the bus or get waylaid in a brothel somewhere and do not show up at bed time . So your parents contact the police and innocently show them your fake passport . Wo n't this be a jolly hoot . So your strategy is blind to some of the things that can happen . The ' best practices ' prescription for your situation is to establish an independent lifestyle so that these impractical strategies are not needed .
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
The USA Passport Card is really only useful if you plan to travel only within the countries bordering the USA . In terms of back up id in the event you lose your passport , your current state drivers license is perfectly acceptable as an ID for going to US Embassies and Consulates . And is the preferred form of ID within the USA . While the Passport Card might allow the overseas consul to look up your lost passport details faster , I do n't think it would make it that much difference in the end result . Personally , I made a wallet sized copy of the info page of my passport , which travels in my wallet all of the time . I also have a scanned copy stored online that I can access from a computer . The wallet sized versions satisfies most law enforcement officers should they ask to see my passport when traveling around inside a country ( assuming my passport is not on me at that moment ) .
Yes you can , my wife recently applied for a tourist visa so she selected the B2 category , but when she eventually got the visa , it was a B1/B2 visa . The way its worded , it seems you can only use B2 for personal travel , but thats not the case .
Want to know if I can travel alone to UK and then can my wife join me later in UK once she get 's her standard visa ? That 's fine . This is not an unusual case . Your wife should explain this in her application . Will the Immigration Officer at the Heathrow airport allow her to enter UK ? If she has an entry clearance in her passport with all the implicit caveats ( not forged etc ) , then the IO will land her in the normal case . You should absolutely be in the arrivals gallery with a name tag or something else that makes you easy to identify in case the IO wants to ask you a question . It 's all very normal .
No , you will have no issues . There are no passport checks . If you fly , you will pass through an ID check , where you can use your passport . This check is conducted by the TSA , which does not enforce immigration law . There are stories on the internet , mostly from 8 or 9 years ago , of TSA officers referring aliens to immigration authorities for a status check . If this happens to you , there 's nothing to worry about since you are legally in the country , so you will be fine . If my experience is any guide , this is very unlikely . I 've been traveling domestically with a foreign passport for a couple of years now without anyone ever questioning my immigration status . As indicated in a comment , my experience may not be a sufficient guide , since passengers from Puerto Rico are apparently sometimes checked for immigration status . I 've never been to Puerto Rico . To reiterate , however , with your valid immigration documents , you have nothing to worry about .
One of the most infamous ones is the prison in La Paz , Bolivia - the <URL> . This prison was made famous in the book " Marching Powder " . ( source : <URL> ) This prison is basically run by the prisoners , and even the guards do n't enter the prison . Tourists are n't " meant " to go in , but there 's a way , for sure . Obviously , you do this at your own risk . My friends at Flightfox wrote a great piece on how they got into the prison , so for a writeup on how to achieve this feat , I provide their article on the subject - " <URL> " .
No , you ca n't use a driving license , because what is required is not just a proof of identity but a proof of nationality . You could have a driving license if you were a British resident , and it would n't give the right to enter Switzerland without a visa . Generally speaking , you need a national identity card or a passport . You can consult the <URL> . Assuming that you 're a British citizen , you need a passport ( or a seaman 's book ) . A British passport without British citizenship also lets you in without a visa , for stays up to 90 days . Beware that British Identity Cards containing under the heading " nationality " the entry " British Citizen " ( B.C. ) are not valid for entry into Switzerland anymore .
Another dual-citizen Kiwi here . Our government actually has pages on this , and whilst it 's fine for you to travel on either passport , it 's best to enter NZ when you return on your NZ passport - otherwise you 're not technically a resident , and would have to have a visa and so on . The relevant links : <URL> <URL> although the first one is really the one applicable to you .
Too late , but for future reference and other people who are wondering : I celebrated near Skövde . Every place we visited or passed on a roadtrip after midsommar had a midsommarstång , so you can go to basically any city . Examples near Copenhagen/Lund are Falsterbö and Vikhög . Pick a city , and search google images for " cityname midsommar " , to see where they celebrate , as it differs in every place ( some use a park in the village , others a castle , some might be on a beach , ... ) . So pick a place and see if you can reach it by public transport . Or pick a place you can reach , and see if it 's good for you . Since most people do n't celebrate in a city , but rather in a small town , a small village does n't mean the festivities will be small . Looking at footage from previous years should give a good impression about how and where it 's celebrated in a given town .
You could try talking to the Pakistani Embassy to find out if presenting a British passport at the same time as your Turkish one might count as " having a British visa " . It might depend on the exact legal definition . Getting a UK visa when you are already a UK citizen is going to problematic , even if it is possible , and may make someone suspicious of why you are doing it . You could also try to obtain a Schengen or US visa with your Turkish passport , both of which should be possible . However the point of the exercise seems to be to avoid getting a Pakistani visa in advance - but to do it you have to apply for another visa ( in advance ) . Unless there is a really good reason it would seem to be simpler to just apply for a visa from Pakistan
According to Wikipedia , <URL> Attempting to conceal it by disassembling will not change the legal status , but will leave you open for further legal issues . The Canadian regulations are similar , but obviously not that relevant if you ca n't first take is to Sweden .
end question
start question
Can you apply for a new Russian passport at any time ?
TL ; DR - You can renew the passport whenever you like . In 2011 I held a 5-year passport that was due to expire in -- IIRC -- 2013 . I was still enrolled at university at the time , which made me temporarily exempt from military service . Since males of the appropriate age need approval ( a specific form ) from the military commissariat for an international passport , and as I had a PhD position lined up abroad , I figured it would be easier to renew my passport while I was still exempt from military service , rather than having to face the hassle of doing this in the middle of my PhD program , no longer having the relevant exemption . To answer the question , I had zero problems getting a new passport , valid for 10 years , while there was still 2 years left on my old one . The lady at the issuing office was a bit surprised , but I simply told her , that I 've got a position abroad and would like to avoid the inconvenience of renewing a passport from abroad .
Yes , you can ( I did so yesterday ) , for any train in India , as of April 2014 . There is no separate queue for foreign tourists , you have to wait in line at the " Reservation Office " . Expect to spend 30-45 minutes in line . While you are waiting ask the ticket agents for the form , you can fill out your train/address details on the form which will speed up the process once you get to the front ( and make the people behind you happier ) . You must bring your passport . You can pay in rupees .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Kuwait 's system is similar to what has been deployed in the UAE . It allows you to apply online for the visa , and then collect it ( rather , get it stamped or entered ) when you arrive at the border . The process is outlined at <URL> ; along with the restrictions and approvals . You can apply on your own ( start <URL> ) , you do n't need a sponsor to apply on your behalf . The " E " in the e-visa means that you are no longer given a paper document or required to carry one with you .
I do n't see anywhere on the <URL> that they do n't or wo n't do visas for citizens of other countries . As a matter of fact if you look at the <URL> you will see that they still do B1 and B2 visas with full application so that means that you can apply for a visa in Stockholm even though you are not a Swedish citizen just read the requirements in the <URL> and <URL> to see what you need to get a visa .
A couple of resources that I find useful : <URL> : A comprehensive listing of visa , health , customs ( in its British English , not American English , definition ) for different destinations compiled by IATA . I have found this is fairly accurate . The form , however , is cumbersome as it asks you to fill in far too many details than required . <URL> : I discovered this website fairly recently . It 's simple in that it allows you to choose what country 's passport you hold , and then show a list of countries that have visa-free or visa-on-arrival entry . This is good for a brief overview use it with caution . As of now , it sometimes misses out information that might affect visas due to residency status either way ; sometimes , it 's harder ( you need to go back to country of nationality ) and sometimes it 's easier ( you can get visa-free/on-arrival holding a passport of one country if you 're considered a resident of another ) .
<URL> is issuing the Russian visas in Tbilisi , but not the touristic ones , unfortunately . So you must apply for a visa in Australia .
No . The only way to get from one terminal to another is to exit the terminal and take the air train or a shuttle bus . A possible exception to this is for Delta , which operates in Terminals 2 and 4 . They apparently have a bus that connects the airside areas of these terminals . See the map here : <URL> Indications are that this bus will disappear at some point , presumably when construction of a direct link between the two areas has been completed .
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
From <URL> NZ At time of rental , the renter must present a full valid driver 's licence issued from their country of residence that has been held for a minimum of one year . If the licence is not in English , then an International Driver 's Licence is also required . New Zealand law requires you to carry your driver 's licence with you whenever you are driving . Renters from China can use a China Notarial Certificate ( CNC ) which is used in place of an International Driving Permit , however their original Chinese licence MUST accompany the driver as well as the CNC . Sadly the page was dynamic but i found the information through the following method : Reservations - > Qualifications &amp; Requirements - > EnterAiportCode : " AKL " - > ChoseTopic : " Drivers Liscence " - > Go <URL> ( New Zealand Transport Association ) * A current and valid overseas driver licence means that your licence allows you to legally drive in your own country . If you are disqualified from driving or your licence is currently suspended , expired or revoked , then you are not allowed to drive in New Zealand . ) The Keyword there is " valid " my understanding is it is not a valid licence without both parts . However find information from the DVLA on this matter is tricky . The <URL> has the same statement as both the NZTA and Hertz .
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
Technically , this is not allowed . The <URL> states : If you do not board your train as booked , your entire reservation is subject to cancellation . However , you can call Amtrak and try to change your reservation from Pontiac to Detroit . You may even get a partial refund if the fare would be less .
Yes there are at least two . How far far east do you want ? Slightly far east : There is a ferry between Vladivostok and Takaoka . There should be a ferry between Vladivostok and Toyama . ( There may be a ferry between Vladivostok and Niigata but reports say it 's discontinued for now ) Extremely far east : There is a ferry between Sakhalin ( Korsakov ) and far northern Hokkaido ( Wakkanai ) . If it 's something off the beaten path you 're looking for I 've been wanting to do the Sahkhalin-Japan crossing for a few years . If it 's something practial you 're looking for that may not be it ( - : Here are some useful links : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
Most airlines allow you to manage bookings either online or by calling up their customer care numbers . Charges may apply for making changes but more often than not they are applied for changing flights rather than changing passenger details . ( N.B. Changing the passenger who will fly is almost never allowed . ) Air Asia does have an online booking management option and <URL> : If you have booked using your old passport details which has now expired , you can update your new passport details online via Manage My Booking , contact our call centre for assistance , or visit our nearest sales office/airport sales counter to update your booking . Air New Zealand does n't explicitly state whether changes to passport details are allowed but <URL> : However if you complete a booking and later find you have made a genuine mistake , please Air New Zealand just as soon as you realise . We 'll do whatever we can to help . You could always tell Air NZ that you accidentally entered expired passport details instead of the new one . This should be allowed as this is mostly a case of updating their passenger information system . <URL> . I 've flown with them and I do remember there being an option to update passenger details . However , I do n't have a current booking with them so I ca n't confirm this for sure ( but it probably is present ) . It 's advisable to make the change online or by calling up the airline in advance . Most do n't make a big fuss of it and rather that than having to explain an employee at the checkin counter . One more thing . This is n't related to this particular case but it 's an important point so I think I should mention it . <URL> through their airlines , although requirements on who need to provide this varies . In this situation it certainly becomes important to update passport details in advance . However , I 've found that even airlines which do n't fly to the US or on flights that do n't go the US ask for APIS details ; possibly because they 're plugging in the same server-side processing software and ca n't be bothered to customise it ?
The SEEQ cards cost either $ 79 ( 3 days ) or $ 129 ( 5 days ) , and they basically offer 3 things : 2 one-way trips on the <URL> 3-5 days of unlimited travel on other <URL> services <URL> at various retailers Realistically , most of the " discounts " listed appear to be things that you 'd expect to find in the free tourist guides/maps/etc available at the airport or tourist information centers - so the real value there is probably minimal . The value of the 3-5 days of unlimited travel will obviously depend on how much you intent to use public transport , but I suspect you 'd have trouble running up a transit bill of ~ $ 25 per day every day , unless you intend to use a LOT of public transport ! The Airtrain component is the interesting part here . Presuming you are intending to use AirTrain both to and from the airport , then this alone could save you anywhere between $ 26 ( pre-paid AirTrain return to/from the Brisbane CBD ) and $ 68 ( return to/from Varsity Lakes on the Gold Coast ) . So clearly there 's no single answer as to whether it 's worth the money or not - it will depend entirely on your expected travel on TransLink services . If you 're planning to catch the Airtrain , AND have at least one/two longer train trips ( such as down to the Gold Coast stations ) then it may be worth the money . If you 're just intending a few short trips around Brisbane itself - even if you 're also planning on catching the AirTrain - then it 's probably not worth the asking price .
Given that it 's <URL> , it 's actually kind of hard to find restaurants serving roast lamb , presumably because it 's slow to cook and rather expensive these days ( lamb prices have more than doubled in the last few years ) . Lamb shanks , on the other hand , feature on the menu of virtually every casual eatery in Australia . ( Sunday roast with lamb , by <URL> ) But the best place to look is definitely a pub , aka " hotel " in Australian . The British " Sunday roast " survives in Australia as well and a great many , but by no means all , hotels put on Sunday roasts that often feature lamb . Here 's a <URL> in Sydney from Time Out , although you 'll note that not all are lamb and many are " continental " rather than Australian/British in style , because Sydney 's a bit too hip that . And here 's <URL> of more classically English-style roasts , although again , many seem to focus on beef . " Clubs " , the odd Australian institution of gambling joints thinly disguised as sporting or veterans ' clubs , also frequently offer Sunday roasts , but the quality of the food tends to be disappointing . ( I 'm painting with a broad brush here , and there are exceptions both ways . ) ( Traditional Argentinian Carne al asador , by <URL> ) All that said , the best lamb in Australia I 've had was grilled by my Argentinian ex-boss , and the 2nd best is served at Argentinian joint <URL> in Surrey Hills , Sydney . The process of roasting it crucified on a metal stake looks a bit like something out of a horror film , but hot diggity dog is it good . Probably not quite what you were looking for , but hey , multiculturalism is also very Australian these days ;)
end question
start question
Do the SNCF fidelity " points monnaie " expire when switching status ?
My membership 's anniversary recently happened and I am back to the status . I could in fact keep my and use them for rewards . I could see some lines in the conditions about the expiration of these points though : Le solde de points monnaie d’un client qui passe du statut Grand Voyageur au statut Voyageur est supprimé 6 mois après son entrée dans le statut Voyageur . Which means that 6 months after switching from to status , my will expire . And indeed , every time I connected on the fidelity website , I got a notification that my points will expire , with the specific expiry date . It is also written that I can not earn these ( not ) when in the status : Un client au statut Voyageur ne cumule pas de points mais des trajets lui permettant de recevoir des Codes avantage .
With American , you ca n't avoid the fees completely , it says so in their <URL> . AAdvantage flight awards are subject to , and the passenger is responsible for , any applicable departure taxes , security fees , federal inspection fees , passenger facility charges and/or other taxes , fees and surcharges assessed by appropriate authorities or partner carriers . In addition , there may be applicable non-refundable charges under the AAdvantage program , such as AAdvantage award charges or upgrade award co-pays . However , you can reduce those fees in at least two ways . 1 - Book <URL> on American . This avoids fuel surcharge that other partners such as BA do charge you 2 - Avoid <URL> travel . I assume , given your previous posts , you 're flying out of Canada . We have expensive airport fees and this hikes the total American charges you .
This is a common situation , and it 's generally no problem . I 'll use A for the country you 're in , and B for the country you 're going to , but all the " flows " described here work equally well if you want to use your B passport to go to a third country . Case 1 : Same name , dual citizenship OK If you have the same name in both passports ( that is , same first name and last name , minor variations are OK ) , and both countries accept dual citizenship ( if you 're not sure , <URL> ) , the basic formula is : Show the airline the passport of the country you 're going to Show immigration the passport for the country you 're in In step-by-step detail , when flying from A to B and back : At check-in , show your B passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your A passport . ( In countries without exit immigration , like the US , you may need to show A as well at check-in . ) At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . And on the way back from B to A , just reverse the process : At check-in , show your A passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Pictorial representation for a UK/US dual citizen visiting the US , courtesy <URL> : <URL> Case 2 : Different names , dual citizenship OK If your names are different , but your countries are OK with each other : Book your flight with the name on your A passport . At airline check-in , show your A passport that matches the name on your ticket , and your B passport , that proves you 're allowed to enter . At exit immigration , show your A passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , at check-in , show your A passport only . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly back . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Case 3 : Same name , dual citizenship not OK Things get harder if one or both your countries does not accept dual citizenship , especially if they care enough to look for visas or arrival stamps . The key thing to understand here is that the airline is not a part of immigration . They do not care if you have multiple passports and they are not going to tell immigration if you do , all they want to know if whether you will be allowed in at your destination . So here 's one way to avoid letting A know you are also a citizen of B : Book a flight from A to B via a neutral third country C , where you do not need a visa . ( For example , Malaysia does not accept dual citizenship , so dual-citizen Malaysians often travel via Singapore . ) On check-in , show your A passport . At exit immigration , show your A passport . Fly to C. Connect to your flight to B . At arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , though , you will need a short detour : At check in , show your B passport . At exit immigration , show your B passport . Fly to C. On arrival at C , do not go to transfer , but instead go to immigration , show your A passport and get it stamped . ( Leave enough time for this ! ) If you need to check-in again , show your A passport . At C 's exit immigration , show your A passport again and get it stamped again . Fly to A . At arrival immigration , show your A passport . This will have a departure stamp from C , neatly hiding that you were actually in B. Beware that this is not totally foolproof , as a very careful inspection of your stamps will reveal that you were not in C for the whole time , but unless you 're North Korean , it 's unlikely you will be subjected to this level of scrutiny . Some people choose to go through immigration in C on the way out as well , so they get more decoy stamps . Case 4 : Different names , dual citizenship not OK If you have different names and your countries do n't like each other , you can still use the same method as above , but you 'll likely need to to book your A-C-A flight in your " A " name and your C-B-C flight in your " B " name .
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
I always like finding public libraries when I travel , for different purposes . One of them is indeed to enjoy this free , accessible and quiet environment . They also have toilet , often a water source to refill your bottle , and they 're warm ( useful when you have a long bus connection in winter ) . Most libraries often offer free wifi to non-members , paid access to copiers . Often they have computers with restricted access to their members , as well as scanners/printers . One drawback is that they might refuse you to get in with a large or heavy bag , but may offer lockers to store them . Finally , one advantage is they have books :) and resources which could be useful to find a travel guidebook , maps or events near you .
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
Firstly , not all airlines do . I booked a Philippines Air flight ( through Expedia ) last night that did n't require I enter my physical address . So now that we 've established that , we can look at those that do , and why . In case of disaster . Some airlines ask for an emergency contact name and phone , others merely ask for your physical address . It 's another way of figuring out how to contact next of kin . Indeed when I went through an experience in South America , Interpol and the NZ Police used residential addresses to ensure they had the correct next of kin . For correspondence , mailing and advertisement . While some of us prefer the electronic world , it 's so easy to delete emails - they know you 'll likely open an envelope addressed to you . American Airlines confirms this ( correspondence reason ) in their <URL> . Air New Zealand used physical addresses to send out their latest AirPoints card offer . For corporate partners . Some airlines are linked with hotel chains , credit card numbers and the like . They may share information on your travelling habits , spending habits , and help to update each others ' information . In addition , these partners may also send you junk mail . . err ... corporate correspondence , permitted by you if you ticked/didn ' t untick the right box , or agreed to some long terms and conditions . Lost baggage . In the event they need to return items to you , they have a place to send it . Your email could be blocked/hacked , phones get lost , but save for an earthquake , the luggage can at least be sent to your nearest airport . I had this in 2002 when my snowboard bag got mixed up with someone else 's . They 'd already looked up where I lived and re-routed it down to my city . If they 're smart , and have your email and physical address , they can now send you targeted marketing - cheap flight from your home city , or hotel deals through their corporate partners . Historical reasons . Remember when companies started to ask for email addresses , and we all thought that was dumb ? Now we completely expect it . But we 're also happy to continue filling out the physical address , because we 're so used to it . And they probably feel that a ) they always got it , so why would they stop and b ) the more you know about a customer , the better . I 'm sure there 's plenty of other reasons , but those are the ones I 've heard of , experienced , or read about in the past , and can think of for now :) Come to think of it , I 'm kinda surprised now that I was able to get away with it at all . They did ask for my credit card billing address , but that 's different to my physical address anyway !
Since you have no bags , no customs . Passports can be bypassed but it usually does n't save any time . All non-Schengen aircraft park at the far end of the international pier . That includes your flight and your onward BA flight . The easiest way , if you have a U.S. or EU passport , is to go through passports into the Schengen zone , follow the corridor to transits , go through security again and then passport exit control ( again ) back into the non-Schengen pier . Now at the first passport control there is a little door that takes you straight back into the departures security without any passport control . If you have a passport that is going to cause a lot of problems , you should use it . You ring the intercom and explain you are doing a non-Schengen to non-Schengen and eventually an agent comes along and opens the door . But if all the passport agents are busy processing passports it might take a while before they have the time to let you through . So for an EU passport holder it can be quicker to go through passports . What you 're talking about can be done in three minutes if you are at the front of the U.S. inbound aircraft with an EU passport . If you are at the back behind everyone else it might take twenty minutes . You should obtain your BA boarding pass on the BA App on your phone to save time . Otherwise go to the BA gate ASAP and explain that you transferred and do not have a boarding pass .
Technically yes , the terms under which a Schengen visa is issued require you to have health insurance up to a certain amount of coverage . You may be asked for proof of this in the form of health insurance documents when you 're entering the Schengen zone and/or at any passport control checks . In practice though , it is unlikely that you will be asked to provide documentation for this . However , travel health insurance is still a good thing to have as hospitalisation costs in case something does happen can be expensive . You do n't need to get an expensive policy ; at least in the UK , you can get short term travel health policies which cost less than # 10 . Even though these policies may have high deductibles , for serious accidents they will still help you recover medical expenses .
No , you can not transfer points between Star Alliance carriers . There are some mechanisms that can be used to transfer between specific carriers , such as <URL> , or transferring via a hotel program ( eg , carrierA - > hotel program - > carrierB ) , however these are generally poor value as you end up losing a significant number of points during the transfer ( s ) .
When the tour guide / tour operator quotes you a price for a private package , it is more often than not a set offer . You can always ask if they can discount the price a bit , but most likely they would respond by simply changing up the package to use other components , lower grade hotel room , less game drive time , etc. . A reputable tour company has already established the value of its programs and is not really inclined to start discounting for the sake of getting just one more booking . A small , lesser known company would be more amenable to discounting to build up their customer base and word of mouth . This is part of the reason why you rarely see the big name tours offering trips on discount offer websites like ZOZI , LivingSocial , etc. . You can always ask , but do n't count anything huge ( a couple of percent off ) .
A cabin crew member here , and I am from a country where people do not clap after landings and I was very surprised when I experienced this for the first time , so I started asking passengers when this happens on different flights . Basically there are three main reasons : A sign of appreciation : the smoother the flight/landing , the stronger the clapping . You know , clapping is cheaper and more feasible than sending the crew flowers . A sign of happiness for safely landing . The harder the flight was , the stronger the clapping will be . There could be other reasons as well behind " happiness " , I am sure it happened with me when no one expected it to happen , but in general it happens on certain flights with certain communities on a regular basis . A sign of excitement for reaching home . Seen this in flights where most of the passengers are expats arriving home after spending a long time away from home . The three above situations happen more when arriving home , not when going away from home . That also was noticed . I guess in some communities , this clapping thing became a tradition , Egypt for example . While the applause is mainly a sign of excitement , people from there do not need a reason to do so . You 'll see passengers from all classes ( even rich people in first class ) will usually clap especially older ones regardless of the flight even if it was a one hour flight with no service and a hard landing ! There are also other less common reasons behind that . Sometimes crew announcements initiate that , as mentioned in the comment ( the crew announced that this was the last flight before the captain 's retirement ) , another announcement that I personally experienced when the captain announced the result of an important football match ( he got the result from the ATC ) .
Largely No , but ... The UK does not have exit immigration checks . Your passport will be checked by airlines or ferry staff to verify you 'll be accepted into your destination , but no-one from the UK Border Agency will see/check/etc you or your passport However ... The UK is slowly , and many would say somewhat incompetently , rolling out a scheme originally called <URL> . That will involve carriers ( ferries , trains , airlines etc ) sending electronically to the UKBA the details of everyone entering and leaving the UK . It was partly deployed , and I believe will be rolled into the new program . Under that , there 's a chance that the UKBA will be told the details of you leaving . Your problem is more likely to be on your return to the UK . You 'd be entering the UK on your US passport , which only entitles you to a short visit ( up to 90 days ) , and not for the purposes of living in the UK . You 'll get a stamp . You may have issues with convincing them to let you in given that you do live in the UK , and you may have issues if you do n't leave the UK within 90 days on the US passport as the system may detect you as an overstay .
You normally should be able to make your connection in Chicago with about an hour , so with 1:50 , you have plenty . However , there is always a chance that your flight is late , or the lines are longer than usual , or something else happening , so you can not avoid a small chance of not making the connection . Typically , the airline will rebook you on a later flight for free . AA also has multiple later flights to STL ( last at 9:15 pm ) . If your incoming flight is late , make sure to tell the personnel ( on the flight already ! ) that you are having that connection . They can call ahead and might fast track you through immigration to help you make it .
In short , Putin 's wrong , or at least oversimplifying drastically . Airport transit areas are exempted from immigration regulations , but they are very much the country 's property , under its authority and jurisdiction . As a simple example , if you 're transiting via an airport and are caught carrying contraband there , you 'll be punished under the transit country 's legislation , as <URL> have found out . All that said , Snowden 's definitely a legal edge case . For example , you can only deport someone who has entered the country ( legally or illegally ) , which Snowden has not . Russia could easily extradite Snowden if they wanted to , since Snowden is now subject to Russian jurisdiction and espionage is a crime in both Russia and the US , but Russia and the US do not have an extradition agreement and , more to the point , Russia has no interest in doing so . Russia could always kick him out under some legal pretense ( loitering ? vagrancy ? ) , but they 'd have to find somebody to take him and issue him travel documents first ! As an ordinary traveller , though , I would n't lose too much sleep over this . It 's very unusual to end up in this position , since the vast majority of people not accepted by their final destination are either refused boarding by the airline at the origin , or deported back to where they came from once they have tried to enter the country . It takes an extraordinary run of bad luck , like <URL> , to end up a refugee in the transit area .
Some airlines will match , others wo n't , so it 's tough to answer in the abstract As a general rule though , you 're more likely to get matching from a North American airline , and quite unlikely to get it from a European one except during one-off promotions . Also matching inside of an alliance is usually tough to get , between alliances is easier . For some examples , BA , Emirates , Lufthansa and Singapore are known for not offering status matching , where as Delta and Continental do . Things do change over time , but at the moment your best bet is to look through the <URL> , look up your new " local " airlines and see .
<URL> . Essentially , you have to be able to prove to the immigration officer that you have the intent to return home . ONE of the means of doing so includes having a purchased return ticket , showing that you 're leaving the country on day x. Most countries have this requirement for tourist visas , and for example , in America , it 's very common among travellers to purchase a cheap bus ticket from Seattle to Vancouver as ' evidence ' that they 're leaving . Then when they 've worked out where they 're actually going , they buy a ticket to there , and forfeit the bus ticket . Leaving by sail boat would be harder to prove , and indeed what might be easier is to produce an ' onward ' ticket - for example , a cheap flight to New Zealand , or Singapore or something . Ideally you 'd purchase a refundable or adjustable ticket , so that you can change it or get a refund when/if you go by boat instead . I recommend having a read of that pdf , it gives you several of the other options on what would be ' evidence ' of intent to return , including a job , lease agreement or more .
In my eyes 7/7 is shorthand for French which translates to . Meaning the business is open all week . Note that this does not necessarily mean that the business is also open 24h . Indeed in France you often read written on shops that are open every day of the week ( note the little , standing for == ) . For example , take <URL> showing a list of 24h businesses , and look at the description of the 24h pharmacy : Pharmacie ouverte 24h/24 et 7j/7 à Paris
I 'd say your question is best suited for the gurus over at <URL> , who specialize in wrangling frequent flyer miles and the like . Take a look at the Miles and More forum , as well as the mileage run forum ( which is their term for taking special trips that maximize mileage earned for minimum cost ) . However , if you 're willing to settle for slightly less status ( no first class terminals in Germany , for instance ) consider obtaining Star Alliance gold status on Aegean Airlines for significantly less cost -- only 20,000 miles if I remember correctly . This will allow you priority boarding , lounge access , luggage tags , etc. for less than $ 1000 in flights if you plan it correctly . Look at <URL> for more .
end question
start question
Can I visit vineyards in Stellenbosch without booking a tour in advance ?
You could try contacting Luhambo tours , who do daily tours leaving from Cape Town . Small groups with specialised wine guides . +27 21 551 04 67 . If you want to do it yourself , maps , information on vineyards that receive and accommodate visitors and advice on getting to them are all available from the very helpful people at the <URL> in Stellenbosch . Also have a look at Wikitravel 's page on the <URL> . It mentions several other tour companies that include half-day and single day tours . Quite a range of prices too ! It also lists down the bottom the famous wine estates of the region , including their opening times and contact details .
If I buy a standard ticket , do I have to specify a date or even a time when I want to visit it ? Yes you have to specify both date and one of the 30 minutes time slots . You have to stick to the time slot you booked , you 'd better not be late . Buy it online to get the discount . Standard ticket or fast track ? Standard ticket by all means . In 2010 , during the festive period of Christmas/New Year 's Eve the queue was only 20 people long when I took the ride . It is not worth buying the fast track , even if it is pouring down or whatever . The " London Eye View 360º " on its own costs 1 GBP , you can buy it separately ( it 's included in the fast track price ) . Source : own experience
Officially Qantas allow bookings up to 353 days in advance , although if you 're booking through a 3rd party that can sometimes be reduced down to 330 days which is more of an industry standard . The exact number of days ( or at least , your perception of it ! ) can also vary slightly depending on timezones - Sydney is 10 or 11 hours ahead of the UK , thus it can already be " tomorrow " in Sydney when it 's still " today " in the UK . In the case of Avios , it looks like they allow the full 353 days . Currently the Qantas Australia website is allowing me to view flights up to December 25 , 2013 . The BA/Avios website allows me to select days up until December 26 , but actually looking for the 26th shows no flights available on Qantas . Picking two typical routes ( SYD-BNE and SYD-LAX ) the availability appears to be exactly the same on both the Qantas and Avios websites for the 24th and the 25th of December , which matches what I 've seen before when comparing the two . As an aside , redeeming Avios points for most Qantas domestic flights is an excellent use of them - the redemption rates are far better than even Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the same flights !
Tattoos or <URL> as they are called in Japanese were criminalized in the beginning of the Meiji period ( some time after 1868 ) as a way to make a good impression on the west . ( A bit ironic in this case ... ) It was legalized again after the war in 1948 but still retains its image of criminality . For many years , traditional Japanese tattoos were associated with the yakuza , Japan 's notorious mafia , and many businesses in Japan ( such as public baths , fitness centers and hot springs ) still ban customers with tattoos . ( from wikipedias <URL> article )
Generally speaking the borders between Switzerland and its neighboring countries Liechtenstein , Austria , Germany , France and Italy are open for every one . Obviously , you need an appropriate visa , but if that is okay there is nothing that restrains you from crossing any border . For example with a Schengen visa you can cross every border between Switzerland and its neighboring countries .
Assuming you arrive in the domestic terminal and leave from the international one , I would first go over there and try to check in early , just to get that out of the way . It is always risky to leave the airport and get into suburban traffic when you have to catch another flight , especially an international one . Your time is limited and I would n't spend too much of it in downtown . However even getting there is interesting enough . I would suggest just taking the <URL> from O'Hare to Clark/Lake ( 1h ) , then go up and change into the <URL> , this is an elevated train ' The L' that goes around the loop , so you have some views over downtown Chicago . Get off at Washington/Wells and walk back to Clark/Lake ( 5 blocks ) to get back on the Blue line to O'Hare ( 1h ) . With only 2.5 hours to spend , this is a very tight schedule . Photo credit : <URL> To make things worse , the Blue line leaves from near terminal 2 , to get there to/from terminal 5 takes at least 15 minutes each . I would only try this , if you had checked in already , so that when getting back to the airport you would only need to go through security and to the gate , meaning you do n't have to be back at 11:30 but maybe at 12:00 or even 12:30 . It would be easier if you could check in through to Tokyo in Boston and do n't have to worry about luggage and checkin in O'Hare . You could also not go downtown , but just look around one of the West Side neighborhoods for a short while . Just take the Blue line to Belmont or Logan Square , spend some time there and then go back . There is nothing too special there , but you can get a feel for Chicago outside of the loop .
Well a good way is to look for a site which specializes in independent reviews . One such which specializes in accommodation and dining , is <URL> . I was n't sure if they also covered reviews of tours but just in case I Googled for and indeed they do cover it : <URL> Now the next question is whether tripadvisor 's reviews are reliable . You should ask this because in fact this particular tour gets 12 " excellent " ratings from 12 reviews . No reviewer has given it any rating other than the highest possible . There are ways to check whether reviews are genuine and not paid for or maid by friends of the company 's owner : Do the reviews go into particular details or just say " it was great " ? Look for things that make it sound like the review really did go on the tour . Do the reviewers have other reviews on the site ? If so check some of those . Does it look like they 've been travelling around ? Have they also given bad reviews to competing tours ? Do they always give " excellent " ratings to everything ? I only had a quick look around but several reviewers look like they 've reviewed other things in other places and not always favourably . You should take a deeper look for yourself but I have the impression that people really do think this is a great tour .
Your best bet for public transport access to the Ontario North is <URL> . They run scheduled buses from Toronto to the north , including Temagami ( but not Hiawatha , wherever that is ) . It is quite a trip , stopping at various small towns you wo n't get to otherwise . If you want to get to the real remote areas your best bet is the Polar Bear Express train to Moosonee - it 's as remote as you can get without flying , which I assume is outside your budget .
Well as they say : <URL> . There is apparently an application for iOS that can provide you with self-guided tour of Honolulu . There is also another <URL> . All of the guided tours of Honolulu would actually require people to pay but it may be possible that the hotels would offer discounts or even pick up the tab for that but this would have to be investigated locally when you check in . As far as Waikiki is concerned <URL> gives a few but with no indication if someone will guide you through the tour .
Yes you can , a few years ago Saudi Arabia began to allow this and now people on Umrah/Hajj visas can visit any place in Saudi Arabia and it is not limited to Makkah and Madinah only as it was before . Just make sure to carry your Hajj/Umrah visa with you .
As long as you have proof of exit from the US , that is all US customs and immigration will care about . I think you can safely relax and go through the normal shuffle of collecting your bags and rechecking them in for your onward flight , etc. .
I think a better solution would be to go to your doctor before the trip and ask for a prescription and a letter explaining the diagnosis and the need . While in some countries a foreign prescription will be honored , in many it wo n't , and then you 'll have to go to a local doctor ( make sure your travel insurance covers it ) to get a local prescription . That 's when a letter from your doctor may come in handy . Make sure its written in an international language ( English/French/Spanish ) , preferably native to the areas you 're expecting to have troubles at . I do n't think its possible to answer your question directly without knowing exactly what medicine you 're talking about .
As someone who has undergone the registration process many times ( including as recently as the end of 2014 ) , I can tell you that the " invitation letter " ( or anything to do with your invitation ) is completely irrelevant to the registration process - it is NOT on the list of documents required to register you as a foreigner . The person registering you can be anyone ( but they do have to have proof of ownership of the property where you 're being registered ) .
It certainly can be done -- is it reasonable , well that depends on your definition ... You 're going to have two major issues here . Visas You likely need visas for the places you 're visiting ( Russia , Mongolia , China ) , and they will need proof of onwards travel . You 'll likely have to get a specialist to help anyway and the overall visa validity is going to limit your options . Tickets If you do n't speak the local language getting tickets in some smaller places may be problematic -- this does n't mean it 's impossible with some help . However , let me quote from <URL> : But for travel between Russia and Mongolia or China , here 's a reality check : Demand exceeds supply for the two weekly Moscow-Beijing Trans-Mongolian &amp; Trans-Manchurian trains ( trains 4 &amp; 20 ) , also the weekly Moscow-Ulan Bator train ( train 6 ) , especially in the busy May-September peak season . Russian Railways opens bookings to travel agencies 60 days before departure , and Russian travel agencies buy up all the tickets to resell them at a mark-up . Station staff may therefore tell you that these trains are all sold out even if you went to the station the moment bookings opened to the public 45 days before departure , although you may be able to buy tickets if you called one of the agencies . If you want to use these trains , you should pre-book through an agency as shown in option 2 or 3 below . Ulan Bator to Beijing is also a pinch-point , as there are only 2 trains a week , so this too is best booked in advance through an agency . Which does n't mean you ca n't book through an agency from wherever you happen to be staying , but that may prove difficult . You 'll also see that trains are infrequent so if you do n't manage to get on a train be prepared to be stuck wherever you are for a few more days ( and have to pay the costs associated with that ) . Is it going to cost more ? Probably not , if you manage to get tickets at each station . Otherwise it 's difficult to say , prices seem reasonably fixed but if you 're dealing with agencies and booking with short notice it may inflate the price . So , possible -- certainly . Reasonable ? That entirely depends on what sort of traveler you , how much time , money and flexibility you have .
In general , no , you do n't have to , particularly if you 're just looking for a bed for one night , and are n't terribly picky . That said , the later you choose to pull off the road - particularly in peak travel season - the more likely you are to be greeted by that dreaded " No Vacancy " sign . ( Or , in nicer establishments , a polite refusal at the front desk . ) My typical MO when driving long distances , is to pull off the road at a rest stop or town about 2-3 hours before I intend to stop driving for the day ; ( in my case , this is usually right around the time the sun is getting low enough in the sky to blind me if I 'm driving west , so I can wait it out ; otherwise , around Sunset . ) Then , I 'll use my Smartphone ( or , if I 'm running low tech for some reason , a payphone at a rest stop and a map ) , to look up hotels that are about ~ 100 miles further along the road from where I am , and book a room online before continuing my drive . This gives me the flexibility to book same day for wherever I end up , while avoiding the occasional frustration of showing up at 9 PM to no rooms for 50 miles in any direction on a Friday night , followed by sleeping in the car in a parking lot ( it 's happened to me . It sucks . ) . All of the major US chains have pretty decent mobile sites that are geared towards exactly this sort of use . I find the IHG ( Holiday Inn et al ) , and Best Western apps are particularly good for looking a little bit ahead along a highway . YMMV . Keep in mind that in some cases , booking further in advance can give you access to better pricing or promotions , but you give up flexibility to do so .
Doing it without permission : Worst case you pay for a new car . Getting permission : Ask !!! . Find a person who has the authority to approve your request and explain what you are trying to do and why . It actually worked for us . It 's important to find somebody who is able to authorise your request . Dealing with someone who is sympathetic but lacks authority will get you nowhere . Real life example below . We rented a car in Australia a few years ago - ALL rental companies had similar " no off road " clauses in their contracts . They were generally specific enough that you could probably drive an Australian " outback " road but not take " unformed road " trails down to picnic areas , dams , lookouts etc. . We had our two adult children with us - we wanted to introduce them to a small glimpse of the " real " outback . We decided to visit and stay at the world famous in Australia " Glengarry Hilton " ( yeah , right !!! ) - down about 50 km of roads that you would n't usually call roads near Lightning Ridge . Some of the agreements said " without written approval " . The endeavour seemed doomed . Non of the counter staff we spoke to had any expectation that such approval could actually be gained . Nor did their supervisors . Having identified the company that had the car we most wanted I did an internet hunt for company upper management and found a phone number of a State manager . Instant success . Full understanding of what we wanted to do . Good explanation of WHY they had the policy - and a note that roads to picnic sites etc were fine - all they wanted was a road that had a formal description so the breakdown wagon knew where to find you :-) . He had only one question - " How did you get my number " :-) . <URL> <URL> . Yes . No problem with driving there . Do n't be misled by the " green " surroundings :-) .
As an Indian national with a US Visa transiting a French airport you do not generally require a visa , as you can TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) . Presuming you are passing through Paris CDG airport , then this is true even if you have to change terminals as there is an air-side bus . ( At Paris ORY airport some transfers can not be made airside and will require a visa ) . However TWOV will NOT allow you to enter the country , and the Eiffel tower is not even slightly visible from either airport ! Thus to visit the Eiffel Tower - or any other part of Paris - you will require a visa . As you are planning to leave the airport , you are most likely after a Schengen " Short Stay " visa , which will have to be issued by a French embassy due to the only country you 're planning to visit being France . Unfortunately this means that it 'll end up being a relatively expensive visit to La Tour Eiffel .
Booking Sri-Lankan Train Tickets Online <URL> says that to date the only tickets that are bookable online are those for the <URL> and <URL> carriages for the Colombo-Kandy-Badulla journey . The regular trains can not be booked online ( quoting from <URL> ) : How to buy tickets ... The privately-run ExpoRail &amp; Rajadhani carriages Colombo-Kandy-Badulla can be booked online at www.exporail.lk &amp; www.rajadhani.lk . The regular Sri Lanka Railways trains can not be booked online , but it 's easy to buy tickets when you get to Sri Lanka at the station . In Colombo , there is a special ticket window for tourists in the 1st &amp; 2nd class advance booking office at the east end of Colombo Fort station . Since you wish to travel on the Colombo-Kandi stretch , you 'll be able to book that part of the journey on the Rajadhani in advance . <URL> . If you 'd rather take the InterCity train , then you 'll have to go to the ticket office in person or send someone on your behalf . Also note that reservations open 45 days before departure ( quoting from <URL> ) : Reservations for trains with reserved seating such as InterCity Express trains open 45 days in advance ( extended from 10 days in late 2013 ) . Seats in the 1st class observation car from Colombo to Kandy can get fully-booked from time to time , so book a few days ahead if you can , but you may well find seats available on the day of travel . Other trains ( shown as having unreserved seats ) do n't require a reservation , you just buy a ticket on and hop on . Purchasing Tickets in Advance <URL> suggests one possible alternative to online booking : using local travel agencies . The linked site has a few agencies listed . Note that these will obviously charge a fee for the booking . <URL> This is also a valid option , which will probably require you to pay an extra fee to the hotel , or at least tip the staff . The Man also mentions this on the linked page .
In Krakow , PL , you can visit the Schindler 's Factory , about what Schindler did to save jews giving them jobs . A really good museum . In Oświęcim , PL , you can visit <URL> ( Auschwitz is the german writing of the town 's name ) , you can go there from Krakow or Katowice by bus or train . You will see the horror factory-sized . In Budapest , HU , you can visit the House of Terror , which is about <URL> , the hungarian national socialist party .
Yes you could I guess but I am not sure I would do it , for two reasons : Timing I made a quick ideal case scenario : <URL> <URL> your time in the city 30min back to the airport by train 1h again at the airport 30min last call for boarding before departure time which leaves you with ca. 2h by my calculations to see the city . However that was a best-case scenario and your calculation could go wrong at any time above : delays of your incoming flight queues at immigration and/or security questions at immigration once the tracks where blocked on my train into the city and I waited 30min on the train stopped at a station before resorting to alternative means get lost in Frankfurt I am a fairly risk-averse person and honestly would not do it unless I had an important errand to run and could fall back on taking a taxi back in case , but this is up for your judgement . If you do go , plan ahead every detail , i.e. what terminal you arrive , how to get into town , where to get off , where to walk around , when and how to get back , ... Attractiveness Personally I do n't find Frankfurt that attractive for a visit and if I had a friend come to Germany and could show them only one place , it would be among the last to come to my mind , but hey , you might have only this chance to see Germany and it is better than nothing . Have a look at <URL> beforehand and plan how to get around . Alternatively , sometimes ( and only sometimes ) you get pretty good views of the " skyline " at take-off and landing , <URL> .
end question
start question
How to get from Thessaloniki to Vourvourou and around ?
Apparently OASTH has added a direct line from Macedonia Airport to the Chalkidiki KTEL . The line 's number is 79A , and it 's non stop . I 'm not sure if the line is only for the summer , it might make sense to send OASTH an email and verify the line will be in service when you plan to arrive in Thessaloniki . Getting from Thessaloniki to Vourvourou with public transportation is ... not a very good idea , the first part of the trip alone is complicated enough . You 'll need to get from the airport to the <URL> 1 station , and that 's a small adventure in itself . OASTH2 does n't have offer a straight route , you 'll need to change busses , and the route their <URL> suggests is surprisingly bad . You 'll have to go about 15Km in the wrong direction , passing through the city 's centre3 , to reach the central KTEL station and then either get a KTEL bus for Chalkidiki , or get an OASTH bus for the Chalkidiki KTEL station . The amazing thing is that the Chalkidiki KTEL station is very close to the airport , they are both at the side of Thessaloniki facing Chalkidiki , while the central KTEL station is at the opposite site . There might be another option , changing busses at the IKEA bus station , but I have absolutely no idea how frequent buses running the two routes ( airport - IKEA and IKEA - Chalkidiki KTEL station ) are , and even if this route is an option you 'll probably have to wait for a while before changing buses . Getting a taxi from the airport is the more sensible choice , it 's a 20 - 25 minute drive and it will cost you about 15-20 $ ( educated guess , and I 'm including the extra charge for your baggages ) . Once you reach the Chalkidiki KTEL station , you are looking for the next bus to <URL> . There are buses going straight to Sithonia , but depending on the then schedule it might make more sense to take the <URL> bus to Nea Moudania , and then change for Sithonia . That 's not something to worry about , all you need to do is mention that you want to reach Vourvourou when buying your ticket , they 'll let you know what the better option is . KTEL routes are pretty regular and run on time , the buses are all air conditioned and generally clean , and the current fare for Ag . Nikolaos is 11.60 $ . It might be a couple of euros more for Vourvourou . Finding a rental car in Vourvourou is not impossible , but it 's certainly not easy . The settlement is a bit scattered and if you have n't made arrangements prior to getting there , you might find yourself without a car , there are a couple of car rental services but they might not even be open in May . If you do n't have the option of making prior arrangements then ... your best bet would be Nea Moudania or Nikiti , the two more populous villages of Chalkidiki . The better option depends on how much of Chalkidiki you want to explore , if you only want to explore Sithonia , then Nikiti would be the better option , but if you also want to explore Kassandra , then both options are valid and you might get better prices at Nea Moudania . Also buses from Thessaloniki to Nea Moudania are far more frequent than to other Chalkidiki destinations . IMHO , the optimal route would be : Airport to Chalkidiki KTEL station via taxi , Chalkidiki KTEL station to Nea Moudania via KTEL bus , Nea Moudania to Vourvourou by car . Some general tips : Routine checks by traffic police are frequent in Chalkidiki , you should have your passport with you . Be very careful when driving in Kassandra and Sithonia , there are some low visibility turns that are quite dangerous . Greek drivers are a bit antagonistic , and from my experience Chalkidiki drivers are the worst . If someone tries to overtake you , just let them . 1 Intercity public transport bus service . 2 Thessaloniki urban transport organization . 3 And if we are talking middle of the day , the traffic will be horrible .
<URL> runs bus service to Disneyland in Anaheim from downtown Los Angeles . You can take Bus 460 from 5th/Grand to Disneyland . For detailed schedule and stops , you can refer to the <URL> for 460 .
The <URL> is located just north of Cape Canaveral , and is definitely worth a visit . The best time to visit is obviously when there is a launch occurring at Cape Canaveral . The Space Shuttles may no longer be flying , but there are still regular rocket launches ( the next occurring in just over a day ! ) , however it 's still worth going at any time . There are bus tours available - I ca n't recommend any as I 've never been on one although Google finds several including <URL> - but I would strongly recommend renting a car . Not only will this give you much more flexibility both around time and exactly where you go , but it 'll probably work out to be cheaper , especially if there 's more than one of you . Orlando is the biggest rental car market in the world , so it 's not hard to rent there ! There is no public transport to KSC .
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
The google maps page you link is n't an accurate representation of the walk - your end point is n't really anywhere near the airport terminals . <URL> is a bit more realistic . I 'd reccommend getting a taxi - # 8 or less for the journey would be my estimate . Your concerns about walking are in fact perfectly justified - the route to the airport from the town centre is mostly not along streets with pavement , and while it 'll most likely be safe from the perspective of worrying about getting mugged , it wo n't be a pleasant stroll . As to getting from there to Watford , you 've identified the right bus . Other than that , the train journey you mentioned you 're trying to avoid is the only other obvious choice - it 'll be quicker , but more expensive . Source : Lived in Luton for a year , made several trips from the north of town to the airport . Used the train lines in that area extensively .
Fot his specific strike , my answer is too late , but since the Belgian railways are prone for strikes ( sometimes even instant strikes ) I can still answer . The bus connection google mentions is not worth a try , especially if there are strikes . You mention 3 connections , meaning in practice your travel time will be doubled due to at least one missed connection . In my opinion there are three options . Enjoy brussels during the strike For the adventurous and sportive traveler buying a bike might be a good solution . It is only 54 kilometers and the scenery is worth it . Buying a bike at shops like the Hema or Decathlon it is definitely cheaper then renting a car . Google maps will give you <URL> Send a tweet with the hashtags #nmbs and #staking and ask for either a hitchhike or others to share in the costs for renting a car or a taxi . I am using this approach a lot in similar situation and I am always surprised how well that works .
You can take your bike along in most trains , but not in the ICE . It 's probably best to check when you look up the connection online ( you can even use it as a search criterium ) . In some local trains you do n't need an extra ticket . It seems to <URL> , including the time of day . In <URL> , you always need a ticket for your bike as well as a reservation . Yes , <URL> . It costs 25.50 EUR per bike , and an additional 8 EUR for international delivery ( only to Luxembourg , Austria and Switzerland ) . Note that the bike has to be wrapped ( you can order a wrapping for 5.90 EUR ) .
Many tourists fly in to Montego Bay and take shuttle buses from the airport to Ocho Rios ( and back ) . It has been several years since I made that trip , so I could n't tell you prices off the top of my head , but <URL> indicates that taxis are about $ 120 , with the shuttles being significantly cheaper ( some hotels and resorts in Ocho Rios may also offer shuttle service ) . Be aware that many of the shuttles will stop off for a " rest stop " at a location with tourist shops . This seems to be due to arrangements between the store owners and either the shuttle drivers or the shuttle companies . Expect to have to waste about 20-30 minutes or so coming from Montego Bay ( we did n't stop on the way from Ocho Rios to Montego Bay that I recall ) . From Ocho Rios , I relied on hired cars/taxis , and found them to be relatively cost-effective . Bus service to the more rural areas may have existed , but I 'm fairly certain it was sporadic at best . It is very easy to find a driver who will take you to wherever you wish to go , and wait for you so they can earn the return trip fare as well . The drivers also tend to be good resources for finding out more about the area . A couple of warnings : Always agree on the price for a hired car/taxi before the trip . I strongly advise that you do not consider renting a car in Jamaica . The drivers there are some of the most aggressive I 've seen in the world , and it can be a major hazard even trying to cross a single street on foot . If you do rent a car , be sure you have excellent insurance coverage !
To travel between Bodrum and Datça by bus , you will need to transfer in Marmaris . If you ca n't find direct service between Bodrum and Marmaris , you can always transfer in Muğla , which is the provincial capital and a stopping point for long-distance buses travelling from north western Turkey to the western Mediterranean . If you can find an intercity bus for either leg of this trip , it will be more comfortable , but you will likely find it easier to take one of the local companies ' smaller buses since they will have more departures . Bodrum to Marmaris will probably take close to four hours thanks in part to the steep descent prior to the plain near Gökova , but it really depends on how lucky you are with a connection in Muğla . From Marmaris , there will be frequent minibuses to Datça . According to the ferry website , the cost for a one-way ticket is $ 12 . The total bus fares will exceed that , but not by a huge amount .
The best cheaper way I 've found to get from Fez to Algiers is flying via Barcelona . As of April 2016 , Fez - Barcelona - Fez is around $ 35-50 on Ryanair , and Barcelona - Algiers - Barcelona is around $ 110 on Vueling , for a total price of $ 150 ( round trip ) .
I see five ways to salvage the situation . Spend the night in Milan and leave early on the following day . You will then be in Antibes around noon . Take the train to Ventimiglia and spend the night there . On the following day , continue to Antibes . You will then be able to arrive in Antibes in the early morning Rent a car in Milan , drive to Antibes and drop it there . It 's a 4-5 hours drive . You will then arrive on Antibes in the late evening . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and continue to Antibes by taxi . You can expect this to cost around 200 EUR . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and then a train to Nice . The last trains leave at 21h49 and 22h40 from Ventimiglia . Nice you can take a taxi . Cost ~ 70 EUR
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
The metro link to the airport is newly opened ( Monday 3rd November 2014 ) See official <URL> for details and map . So you will need to take a tram from the Airport to Trafford Bar and change for a tram for one stop to Old Trafford . <URL>
<URL> lists what lines the JR pass is valid for - it includes buses operated by JR , but that 's not all of them , especially not in cities . More importantly , the JR pass is not valid for subway lines in any of the cities you mentioned . In Tokyo at least it can be used for some metropolitan JR lines , most importantly the Yamanote circle line . The rule of thumb is : look up what your long-distance train fares would be if bought directly , and buy a JR pass only if it 's cheaper than those . Local usage is only a small bonus . I 'm not aware of a way for tourists to save much money on local transportation . <URL> may be an option . You may also want to get a <URL> , just for convenience .
There are two companies running a direct bus connection between the airports . <URL> . Their bus # 910 runs <URL> and takes 60 minutes . A single ticket costs 5 ( or 7.5 , depending on the time ) , pre-bookable on their website . <URL> . Their bus # 1195 runs <URL> and takes 75 minutes . A single ticket costs 8 , with no reservations available online . As an alternative you could <URL> from one airport to the other for about 60 . The journey should take around 40 minutes , depending on the traffic . <URL> used to run a <URL> between the two airports , taking 10 minutes and costing 40 , but unfortunately it 's no longer available .
You can take the metro from Ataturk Airport to Esenler " Otogar " ( much nearer than Harem ) . From the <URL> , you can see the timetable , Metro runs until Midnight ( 00.00 ) . From Esenler Otogar you can get a suitable coach for your travel .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Personally I would suggest looking for a different routing - as you 've discovered Frankfurt-Hahn airport is a very long distance away from both Frankfurt itself , as well as from Frankfurt am Main airport . If you do decide to go ahead with this connection , there is a bus service that runs between the two airports , run by <URL> . Travel time is 90 minutes , and cost is currently 14 Euro per person each way .
end question
start question
Why does Rotterdam not want me to lean against buildings ?
I have done an internet search in Dutch , I did not find the ' do not lean against buildings ' for Rotterdam , nor in general neither for this one event . In the Netherlands it is quite common for cities to have special rules ' with status of law ' for special events . The Ingress event is quite big and the city officials will likely not want it to get out of hand . I do not expect them to arrest people who lean against the buildings , but they might have police or security crews in the streets and ask people to move on if the crowds seem to be overwhelming for the street or blocking the normal activities for the street ( like shopping ) .
" Sir/Ma ' am , no thank you . " or " Sir/Ma ' am , I am not interested . " Followed by ( if needed ) " Sir/Ma ' am , I am sorry , but I specifically requested and was given this seat . I am not willing to change to another seat for any reason . Perhaps someone else might wish to help you . "
In some airline examples , it 's only when you get to check in - either online or in person , that the passport details are requested . Before then you 'd receive only a booking reference number , and you may be asked for your name and other identifying details ( as you 've stated Expedia did ) . The booking number is enough to confirm it was your ticket , and at check-in , the passport details will be entered , either by you or the airline staff at the counter .
Normally I carry a small bag for the overhead compartment , but I was flying from Heathrow to NYC once and carrying only my baise en ville ... It caused me to get flagged up for further questioning by airline security ( it was a US carrier ) . They were very worried that no baggage was checked and I had no carry on . I was attending a party on short notice and fortunately had the invitation with me . I also explained that I was going to purchase some new clothes in Manhattan anyway ( I explained also that I was born there and knew my way around , plus hotel reservations at the Marquis ) . So they let me go ... After this , my advice if you are travelling ' conspicuously light ' is to have something on hand that demonstrates your itinerary and some plausible explanation for not carrying any change of clothes . I also switched to the Victorinox Altmont handbag after that incident , but this may be a spurious connection .
This mean that at LAX ; perhaps due to customs or other security restrictions - the airline can not accept baggage to be delivered directly to/from passengers ( at the gate ) and it has to go through customs/clearance . So you 'll have to check it in and surrender the stroller at the check-in ; and if arriving at LAX receive it at customs . I would highly recommend getting it wrapped with plastic as ( from personal experience ) strollers have many extremities that can easily be popped off/removed/broken during the rigours of flight . I have seen this happen before ( not at LAX and not with Aeroflot ) . Normally if a flight is full the gate agent will ask passengers to volunteer to have their carryons put in the cargo hold ( as there may not be enough room in the cabin ) . Some people also volunteer their bags for this service just to avoid having to lug them around . I was such a person - I had two bags and only needed one during the flight and I approached the staff at the counter ; here is what I was told : " Sorry sir , we are not authorized to accept baggage airside ; you can ask the cabin crew to store your luggage in a different bin away from your seat . " Sometimes , this may be due to the unique way airports are operated - the ground handling staff for this flight may not be allowed to offload at airside ( or be allowed on the jetway ) or ... any number of reasons . You can ask Aeroflot for the reason but other than to satisfy your curiousity ; but if you want to have a temporary stroller in the terminal , it might be better to ask at LAX if there is such a service .
There are at least a couple of options for private tours . It implies that you may be the only ones , potentially , but at least you 'd have a leader to show you around , and if you have others they could come too . Firstly , there 's the <URL> : Discover the secrets of Rotterdam with a knowledgeable local guide ( 3hrs walk ) And more promisingly , <URL> : Gilde Rotterdam organizes city walks guided by senior citizens . These guides will elaborate from personal experience about life in the city and about the differences between Rotterdam of old and the modern-day metropolis . There are several walking routes in all parts of the city and two bicycle routes .
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
The Piedmont region in <URL> is pretty close to central Europe .
No . It does not make you stateless . The United States government still exists and is recognized by foreign governments . The US government has only closed down some non-essential operations . None of that affects its relationship with other countries or US citizens ability to travel with valid US passports ( it may make it harder to get/renew a US passport though ) .
This is n't , so far as I can tell , any kind of travel jargon . It looks the standard definition of <URL> used in any kind of business : Done or existing within an organization That is , if you want to book a room directly through the hotel itself , use the contact information provided . Presumably , you could also book the room through a third party like a consolidator , online travel agency , or corporate portal -- which might or might not be cheaper and/or easier .
Airlines have a pricing strategy known as " yield management " or " revenue management " - they charge less for some seats than others , and expect these seats to be bought a long time in advance . They know that only a certain percentage of their customers are able to buy seats well in advance , and that those customers would n't fly if they could n't get inexpensive seats . A speculator could buy a $ 100 ticket and then offer it on eBay close to the flight date for $ 200 . If more than half the seats this speculator bought were sold this way , the speculator would be making money . But the airline , which wants to sell seats close to the flight date for $ 500 , would not . In fact very quickly the speculator enjoying selling 75 % of tickets for $ 200 would see it fall to 0 % because of another speculator selling them for $ 150 , and then later another for $ 110 and so on . This is just how reselling markets tend to work . By insisting that a ticket is not a commodity to be bought , traded , resold , and passed around from hand to hand , the airline is able to keep its complicated pricing structure in place . Overall , this is a good thing , because those last-minute high-price tickets cover a LOT of the cost of the flight - their existence is what keeps the long-advance-notice tickets so cheap !
You have answered your own question by providing the official reason Ryan Air do this : to ensure compliance with immigration authorities When Ryan Air first introduced this policy in 2009 , <URL> : A Ryanair spokesman said it had introduced the rule early this summer to allow non-EU and - EEA passengers to use web check-in . Previously , the airline did not allow non-EU and - EEA passengers to check in online ; instead , it offered a refund of the extra cost of checking in at the airport . Aer Lingus says it does not have such a requirement . " For those passengers who check in online , passports are checked either at the bag-tag desk or bag-drop machine or at the boarding gate , " a spokeswoman said . The Ryanair spokesman said : " Other airlines do n't offer passengers the convenience of 100 per cent web check-in , so they do n't need to do this yet . They check visas at their long-queue check-in desks , which Ryanair passengers now avoid . " Most of the time <URL> . All other airlines do some form of basic visa checks in the background . Ryan Air either have not updated to procedures , or are choosing to do it this way . Another thing to note is that Ryan Air only checks that your Passport is OK to travel , or that you have a valid visa . They do n't check for example whether you are overstaying your visa ( e.g. <URL> ) . But what about Domestic flights or flights between Schengen countries ? This is where their official reasoning breaks down . They have a blanket policy for all Non-EU Nationals regardless of the flight they are taking . Obviously there is no immigration requirements for domestic flight , nor is there one between two schengen countries . They might say it is easier to have one policy for all their flights , but its hard to believe this when they are the only ones to do this in the first place . Why do n't they just perform the check at the boarding gate ? Actually I have witnessed some positive experiences with other passengers forgetting their visa check , and the staff being nice enough to check it and stamp it at the boarding gate . However this has been far less than the experiences of seeing people rejected . inserted : From Easy Jet ( another budget airline ) Will my travel documents be checked at the airport ? You need to provide photographic ID at check-in on all flights , including domestic services . On domestic flights ( excluding Italy ) an ID check at the boarding gate is NOT required for passengers travelling with cabin baggage only . It is only mandatory that ID checks are conducted for passengers travelling with hold luggage . If you check-in online you will still need to provide your photographic ID when you go through security and again when you board the plane . What are the travel documents that I need ? You need to provide photographic ID at check-in on all flights , including domestic services but the types required vary . For clarification please see the table below : <URL> not every country issues a national identity card . Please note : a driving licence does not represent a valid photographic ID , with the exception of UK domestic flights . Money Making Scheme ? Many people actually ( as @Andrew Lazarus has already mentioned ) believe this is another one of their money making schemes . Many passengers are denied boarding due to this clause and by that time they do not have enough time to go back to the check-in counter and come back through security to board the flight . Thus requiring them to purchase another ticket . I would tend to agree with this idea , they also are very strict with the check-in bag sizes and their <URL> Update : I asked them on Twitter about Domestic and Schengen flights : <URL> I was unable to get them to give me a reason for why they do the visa check for Schengen flights
The short answer is : no , you ca n't , but it 's really not a problem . I assume your profile picture is accurate , and you are a white male . The Western notion that everybody should get an even break , regardless of background or appearance , just does n't exist here in Japan . The Japanese feel entitled to judge according to appearances . White men have a role here , and it 's not a bad one . You wo n't experience the same conformist pressures as the natives ( e.g. bald Japanese men have a rotten time ) and , if you 're single , you 'll be thoroughly spoilt ! The " Japanese Only " signs are very rare ( except for the sex industry ) . They usually only appear in places where foreigners have caused problems . It 's not fair , but if you want fairness do n't come here . One piece of practical advice : fit the profile . A conventional , preppy appearance will get you a long way . If you have tattoos , only let your close friends see them . Enjoy playing the role of honored guest . It will wear thin after a while , but by then you should have figured out for yourself whether Japan is for you . So do n't worry about discrimination . Just go with the flow , and I 'm sure you 'll have a great time .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
Mostly if you 're 18-30 you can get working holiday visa for <URL> , <URL> and <URL> ( the ones I know of ) . Citizens of many countries can get these visas but Dutch for sure . As mentioned in the comments , as a EU passport holder , you also have the right to work anywhere in the EU , in Switzerland and in EEA countries ( Norway , Iceland , Liechtenstein ) with the possible exception of new EU members ( Romania and Bulgaria until 2014 and Croatia after that ) if your own country imposes restrictions to citizens from said new members .
It seems to be a <URL> ; you can find it on the <URL> website .
It really depends on the shop location and airport layout . If the duty-free shop is only in the international departures zone then they probably do n't set up a tax-in/tax-out process in their cash register . Therefore they have no process to sell with tax . If the shop is in a mixed departures zone or public space then they have a gate delivery process and sometimes do have a tax-in option at the register . Copenhagen airport does - I went to buy some small things there , they asked for passport and boarding pass , I told them where I was going and they just rang it up with Danish tax .
United Does honor IATA Resolution 302 . Simple as that . Where you are going wrong is confusing marketing carrier and operating carrier . Your flight from Newark to Tokyo may have a ANA flight number , but it 's operated by United , and when it comes to baggage ( including IATA 302 ) , it 's the operating carrier that is important . Under IATA 302 , the airline that flies you Newark to Tokyo is the Most Significant Carrier , and thus it is their baggage rules that apply . United has recently changed many of their international baggage charges , and from the 1st of June , for flights from the US to Japan , the first bag is free , whilst the second bag is $ 100 ( presuming you do not have United/Star Alliance status ) . It is these rules that apply for your flight , not those of the marketing carrier ( ANA ) .
The CBP/TSA have recommendations from both their own and external parties about certain individuals for whatever reasons - innocuous , cautionary or other , indicating that their recommendation is that said individual not be allowed to board a flight . For example , the <URL> : CDC provides " Do Not Board " recommendations to CBP and the Transportation Security Administration ( TSA ) regarding individuals who may be infected with a highly contagious disease , present a threat to public health , and should be prevented from traveling to the United States via commercial aircraft . TSA is performing vetting of all airline passengers coming to , departing from or flying within the U.S. to identify matches to the " Do Not Board " list and flag matched individuals ' records in the Secure Flight system to prevent the issuance of a boarding pass . So at this point , you do what the note tells you - you ( hopefully with the ground staff ) contact the TSA/CBP , determine the reason , and see if there 's anything you can do to get around it . For example , the original " No Fly List " <URL> , especially if you say , had the same name as a suspicious person . If you were erroneously put on the list , you can appeal it , but <URL> .
In the olden days you did do laundry with bar soap - but it was laundry bar soap - harsher and unscented . You can still get it in Mexico and probably lots of places . I guess " hand soap " as it is ( or was ) usually called differs mainly by being more expensive and probably has ingredients to be less harsh on the skin , and it 's usually scented . Whether any of these extra ingredients is bad for fabrics I doubt but you never know . But being gentler on skin you can be pretty sure it 's going to be gentler on stains also , so less effective on clothes . So if the convenience of carrying fewer kinds of soap outweighs the higher price and lesser cleaning strength then sure - wash your clothes with hand soap while you 're on the road . But now and then you probably want to wash it with laundry soap too . ( If you 've ever tried washing your hands with laundry soap you will notice it can badly dry your skin . I made this mistake recently where the hostel bathroom did n't have hand soap but did have laundry powder . After a week or so the skin only on my hands was raspy and I realized my mistake . )
end question
start question
To how much radiation are you exposed on a transcontinental flight ?
The amount of radiation you 're exposed to on an airplane flight depends on a variety of factors , including the altitude , latitude , and duration of the flight . As an example , a flight from New York to Tokyo is probably about 150 μSV . For comparison , natural background radiation is about 2,000-7 ,000 μSv per year , a chest x-ray is about 50 μSv , and a medical CT scan is about 10,000 μSv . Some of the other answers have referred to the BED ( banana equivalent dose ) , but unfortunately the BED is scientifically wrong , because the body maintains a constant amount of potassium , so ingesting more does n't increase your exposure . The question asked about the comparison with the radiation exposure from airport scanners . There are two types of full-body scanners , backscatter x-ray and millimeter wave . In the US , the TSA is eliminating all backscatter x-ray scanners by June 2013 , so the only type remaining will be millimeter wave scanners . Millimeter wave scanners do not use ionizing radiation , so the radiation exposure is zero . I assume backscatter x-ray machines will continue to be used in airports in at least some other countries ; the radiation exposure is about 0.05-0 .1 μSv per scan , which is about a thousand times less than exposure during the flight . There is strong evidence that small doses of radiation do not cause even a small negative health effect in proportion to the dose ( which would be the LNT , linear no-threshold hypothesis ) . In fact , there is quite a bit of evidence that small radiation doses provide a health benefit , an effect called radiation hormesis . This may be because the radiation activates cellular repair mechanisms . However , the dose received from an airplane flight is much too small to provide any positive or negative effect worth considering on an individual basis .
Airlines will bump up a departure time if they feel they can get the plane out earlier . It helps their on-time performance stats and gets everyone to their destination a little earlier . But this is done only when they are certain everyone will be onboard earlier . The decision would likely be based on 1 ) all originating passengers have checked in XX minutes before the flight 2 ) all flights with connecting passengers have arrived at the airport XX minutes before the flight 3 ) the aircraft is at the gate cleaned and fueled before the new boarding time commences . In addition the airline needs to get clearance from Air Traffic Control for an earlier pushback , departure and arrival slot . So it is not something they do on a whim and would n't be done if there was risk of leaving passengers behind .
" Big ships " ( e.g. cruise ships ) , have very specific needs . Your chances of getting a job with one of them soar if you can meet one of those needs . " Recreational sailor " probably does n't " cut it " in this regard . Sailing ships need professionals . Most ships have computer and internet services . Your best shot may be at an IT role , but there may be more applicants than places . If you have hardware maintenance experience and are handy with tools ( you 're sailing experience suggests you are ) , you might be able to land a job in general maintenance . If you have an " esoteric " science backround ( e.g. in electrical engineering ) , that could be helpful . Otherwise , you 'd need to get job in some form of " customer service . " This could be manning the booking desks , or even cleaning rooms or " waitstaffing . " Make it clear that you expect very little pay , just " room and board " and some walking around money . You will be competing for these roles with candidates from developing countries . As for contact , I 'd stay away from the agencies , which have their own interests and not yours . Most of the shipping lines like to recruit at key ports ( not in the U.S. ) . Vancouver comes to mind for a Canadian . Otherwise London , Amsterdam , Hamburg , Hong Kong . Maybe somewhere off the beaten track such as Gdansk or Oslo . Good luck .
<URL> provides an excellent overview of radiation types and what you are most liable to encounter . For airline flights gamma-radiation is the most probable type . ( Alpha particles are stopped by paper , Beta by thin foil or similar . You can buy commercial instruments that will detect radiation for from about $ 200 on up . An off the shelf " PIN diode " acts as an adequate gamma radiation detector in many cases . <URL> from Maxim . Their notes are worth reading in this context . <URL> They say : Abstract : A PIN photodiode , four low-noise op amps and a comparator are used to detect individual photons of gamma radiation . The schematic , design considerations and component selection are discussed . The circuit of Figure 1 includes a PIN photodiode that detects individual photons of gamma radiation . When a photon strikes a depletion region created by reverse bias on the photodiode , it produces a small amount of charge in proportion to the photon 's energy . The resulting signal is then amplified and filtered by four amplifiers and a final comparator distinguishes between the signal and noise . The comparator output pulses high each time a gamma photon with sufficient energy strikes the photodiode . <URL> <URL> <URL> ADDED Here is a description of a DIY real world Gamma Ray detector based on a PIN diode . Made by VK2ZAY - Australian radio-amateur . A number of other on-web designs are based on his work . <URL> <URL> good . Here is a <URL> Related videos - same device <URL> and <URL> and <URL>
When taking the ICE ( long-distance high speed train ) to FRA , there is something else to consider : The German Railways ( Deutsche Bahn ) . The trains can be quite delayed , which messes with your whole planning . I always plan another 30 minutes to an hour when travelling with them , especially if you are catching a long-haul flight . In your case , this would mean to take the train that arrives 3:15 before the flight . For example , on the route Köln HBf-Frankfurt Flughafen , 26,0 % of the 4667 trains were delayed . Average delay was 18,3 Minuten , but note that this is an average . I have travelled quite a lot on this route and I had everything from on time ( < 5 minute delay ) to 2 hours . Data source : <URL> Note that the data is from 2013 .
If your flight on ANA has a flight number that begins with " NH " , then you can submit that flight to SAS 's EuroBonus for consideration . But how many points you earn will depend on the fare class that was booked . Many times the cheaper fare classes get only a small percentage of what SAS would award ( sometimes no points ) . The SAS website has a brief breakdown of minimum points awarded , but not a detailed explanation <URL> . If the flight is a codeshare and the flight number begins with a " KL " , then the points will be credited towards your FlyingBlue account . If you have n't signed up yet for FlyingBlue , please know that KLM , Air France and Delta all award points equally , so you could choose any of those programs and have your KLM flight credited ( depending on which you might fly the most in the future ) .
The " E " in ETA stands for " Electronic " , and that pretty much refers to the entire process . Not only do you apply electronically ( eg , on the <URL> ) , but the airlines are responsible for electronically checking that you have obtained an ETA or a Visa . Presuming that your previous flights to Australia have been from the US , you may recall that whilst you were waiting to board the flight they were calling specific people to the podium for a " documentation check " - these are for the people where they have not been able to confirm that they have an ETA , and they will be required to check that they do have the relevant approval to enter Australia ( such as a physical visa ) . Once you actually arrive in Australia the Immigration staff are able to see that you have a current ETA electronically , and thus do not need to see any further details from you . If you do n't have an ETA ( or a Visa , etc ) then you will not be allowed to board the plane - it is the airline 's responsibility to confirm that you have an ETA before they let you on the flight , and in general they will be fined if they do not so do n't expect to be able to talk your way on ! One minor point of semantics , what you have is not an " ETA Visa " , it 's an " Electronic Travel Authority " , or " ETA " . The ETA is specifically NOT a " Visa " as such . The distinction is n't normally all that important , and you 'll frequently hear people refer to it as an " ETA Visa " , but technically it 's not correct . The main place where this becomes relevant is if your application for an ETA is denied and you have to apply for a Visa instead . When filling out the Visa application one of the questions is whether you 've ever been denied a visa for Australia before , and then answer will be NO , despite being denied an ETA - because the ETA is NOT a visa !
Not lots of airports , but lots of rich people : <URL> operates a regular flight between Nice airport and Monaco every 30mn . Fee is 105 $ from Monaco to Nice and 120 $ from Nice to Monaco , or 210 $ for both .
It seems almost everyone is in the " no " camp , however there does n't seem to be a lot of corroborating evidence presented . Here 's an excerpt from American Airline 's <URL> Carrier undertakes to use its best efforts to carry the passenger and baggage with reasonable dispatch . Times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . Carrier may without notice substitute alternate carriers or aircraft , and may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket in case of necessity . Schedules are subject to change without notice . Carrier assumes no responsibility for making connections . Delta US <URL> : Delta is not responsible or liable for making connections Delta International <URL> Except as stated in this rule and as provided in Rule 55 , Delta will have no liability for making connections ... In the event of flight cancellation , diversion , delays of greater than 90 minutes , or delays that will cause a passenger to miss connections , Delta will [ accommodate passenger ... ] ( Rule 55 does n't appear to add anything substantial here ) British Airways <URL> : 9b3 ) If we : ... cause you to miss a connecting flight on which you hold a confirmed reservation ; you can choose one of the three remedies set out [ ... ] Qatar <URL> : 2.2 Extension of Validity If you are prevented from travelling within the period of validity of the Ticket because we : ... 4 . Cause you to miss a connection The Validity of your Ticket will be extended until our first flight on which space is available in the class of service for which the fare has been paid . I expect most airlines will show some discretion especially if you 're obviously incapable of hurrying to your connecting flight and it is at the other end of the terminal , but this discretion does n't seem to be backed up in the CoC . There is some ambiguity in " if we cause you " , since that might be possible to interpret as " we gave you such a short connection that you could n't make it " . A few anecdotes from flyertalk . They 're not directly analagous to " not running " , but do show that if the airline feels it 's not their fault , it might not be yours either , but you may be the one on the hook for a new ticket : <URL> . I therefore missed the connection , and they want me to pay rebooking fee and taxes and fare difference etc etc which costs like 500 usd <URL> she was forced to buy 2 walk up Y tickets for about $ 1500 <URL> The agent told me that it would be more expensive to change my original ticket , than to simply purchase the additional 1-way ticket
I ca n't attest to what your personal taste in wind is , but if you look at the <URL> 2 m/s is described as a , For Sea : Small wavelets , still short but more pronounced ; crests have a glassy appearance and do not break For land : Wind felt on exposed skin . Leaves rustle . Wind vanes begin to move . While 7 m/s is the top end of a For Sea : Small waves with breaking crests . Fairly frequent whitecaps . For land : Dust and loose paper raised . Small branches begin to move . So I 'd say that at the low end of 2 m/s you 'll be fine , but you may face sand starting to blow about at the upper end of 7 m/s . Of course that is going to depend on the type of sand ( fine vs coarse ) , the geography of the beach ( open vs protected ) and the direction of the wind ( on-shore vs off-shore vs along the beach ) And add into that other factors such as is the day sunny or cloudy , air temperature and humidity will change how you experience the local weather .
If you go to Hostelbookers ( generally a bit cheaper than Hostelworld ) and search by price , <URL> . In the high season when I was there last year it was still possible to walk into some hostels and get a bed , but not guaranteed , especially around weekends when more people travel and use them .
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
A local newspaper here in Finland recently ran a fuel efficiency test that might provide some relevant data here . <URL> is , alas , in Finnish only , but I 'll summarize the results below . The test compared the fuel consumption of the test vehicle ( a <URL> D4 diesel ) , on a test route that included both highway and urban driving , in three rooftop configurations . The results were : No roof rack : 5.6 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 42 mpg ) Roof rack with <URL> aerodynamic cargo box : 5.9 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 40 mpg ) Roof mounted <URL> ski carrier with skis : 6.0 l / 100 km ( & approx ; 39 mpg ) Thus , the cargo box on the roof increased fuel consumption by about 5 % compared to the baseline . ( The full test also measured the noise level at the driver 's ear , and compared the ease of installation and various other aspects of the different options , but I 'll leave those out of this summary . Suffice to say that the cargo box caused some steady but noticeable hum , and made the car somewhat more sensitive to side winds . )
The amount of radiation you 're exposed to on an airplane flight depends on a variety of factors , including the altitude , latitude , and duration of the flight . As an example , a flight from New York to Tokyo is probably about 150 μSV . For comparison , natural background radiation is about 2,000-7 ,000 μSv per year , a chest x-ray is about 50 μSv , and a medical CT scan is about 10,000 μSv . Some of the other answers have referred to the BED ( banana equivalent dose ) , but unfortunately the BED is scientifically wrong , because the body maintains a constant amount of potassium , so ingesting more does n't increase your exposure . The question asked about the comparison with the radiation exposure from airport scanners . There are two types of full-body scanners , backscatter x-ray and millimeter wave . In the US , the TSA is eliminating all backscatter x-ray scanners by June 2013 , so the only type remaining will be millimeter wave scanners . Millimeter wave scanners do not use ionizing radiation , so the radiation exposure is zero . I assume backscatter x-ray machines will continue to be used in airports in at least some other countries ; the radiation exposure is about 0.05-0 .1 μSv per scan , which is about a thousand times less than exposure during the flight . There is strong evidence that small doses of radiation do not cause even a small negative health effect in proportion to the dose ( which would be the LNT , linear no-threshold hypothesis ) . In fact , there is quite a bit of evidence that small radiation doses provide a health benefit , an effect called radiation hormesis . This may be because the radiation activates cellular repair mechanisms . However , the dose received from an airplane flight is much too small to provide any positive or negative effect worth considering on an individual basis .
Most commercial campgrounds have office hours and tend not to be open real late , say 8 or 9pm . But if you have a reservation and have n't checked in by closing time , they will put a note on the office door telling you which campsite is yours and requesting you to come check in after they open in the morning . A fair number of campgrounds will allow you to simply choose a campsite , if you arrive without a booking after hours , and then come pay in the morning . The drawback however is you may not have the passcode to enter the restrooms or showers .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
The statement ' there is no speed limit on the Autobahn ' is not really correct . I could n't find any official statistics , but I 've seen a number of only 50 % of German Autobahns without any limit . Many parts have a permanent limits of 120 or 130 km/h ( 74 mph or 81 mph ) . Some parts are limited to 80 ( 50 mph ) due to construction work . Also , some limits are only for wet roads . Finally many parts have dynamic speed limit signs that change based on the traffic situation . Even though there is no general limit for the 50 % , there is a recommended speed of 130 km/h ( 81 mph ) . If you are going much faster and there is an accident , it is more likely you are blamed for it ( if you survive it , which is unlikely ) . Autobahn police can still pull you over for reckless driving or driving too fast in certain situations even when there was no limit . How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ? This really depends on the situation , there are some stretches in less populated areas that get relatively light traffic and you can drive 200 km/h ( 125 mph ) with no problem . It also depends on the time of day . There is rush hour traffic that limits your speed anyways . Late at night it is usually empty and you can go fast . It also depends on you car , it makes a big difference if you go 200 km/h in a big BMW or Porsche or a smaller older car . It is also much more tiring to go fast , you have to concentrate much more at 200 than 120 because any tiny mistake has much bigger consequences . I had several friends visiting from overseas , renting a car and then were too scared to drive really fast . If you are planning to go fast , start with a speed you are comfortable with from home and then increase it over time . Do n't go 230 km/h ( 143 mph ) as soon as you hit the Autobahn for the first time .
It 's worth nothing that return flights are always from A-B-A . You 're asking for an open-jawed ( sort-of ) flight - and that 's almost always two one-way tickets . Sometimes on kayak.com they have variants that 'll show up if you select multiple airports in your " return flight " - you could try that ( in the " from " box , you can put MAD , and in the " to " box , put " DEL , BOM . However it may just find the cheapest return flight to DEL then . But it could be worth a try . I 'd suggest <URL> as another possible option . It 's like an online travel agent - you pay a small fee , and their experts find the cheapest flight they can for you . What you could do is create a contest on there , and indicate what you 've found , but that you 'd like a way to book it for the price you 've found , or for less if they can ;) ( disclaimer , I occasionally compete on there as an expert - there 's a discount link in my profile )
It 's complicated , but as always , <URL> . The short version is that in the vast majority of cases , the baby will inherit one or more citizenships from its parents through <URL> , and nothing more . If the baby is born within the territorial limits of a country that applies <URL> , including flying overheard and within nautical limits , the baby may be eligible for citizenship of that country as well . If the baby 's parents are of unknown citizenship , stateless or citizens of countries that do n't do jus sanguinis at all ( not sure any exist ? ) , and they ca n't get any citizenships via jus soli ( eg . birth occurred in international waters ) , the <URL> will kick in : Article 3 For the purpose of determining the obligations of contracting states under this convention , birth on a ship or aircraft shall amount to birth in the territory of the State that gives its flag to that ship or aircraft . So the birth will be treated as if it occurred in the country that registered the plane or ship . This does n't mean the baby automatically gets that country 's citizenship , but the Convention aims to ensure that if they ca n't get anything else , they 'll get this as a fallback . Since not all countries have signed the Convention , and not all countries that signed it have enacted it in law or in practice , it 's still possible to fall through the gaps . Post any interesting cases in the comments ;)
Some thoughts : That 29 miles sounds like it came from someone in PR -- Google maps puts it at <URL> and 60-80 minutes with traffic . Back when I lived there , I 'd have estimated that drive at about 90 minutes without traffic . Do you know what your schedule will be like during the trip ? Unless you know you 're going no further than a few blocks away from the hotel/convention center during the whole trip , you 'll almost always want to rent a car in Southern California . Keep in mind that you ca n't catch taxis on the street , and public transportation is very limited . Are you traveling by yourself , or with others ? If it 's just you , it 's hard to justify paying <URL> ( each way ) versus <URL> ( each way ) . However , the cab fare is the same no matter how many people they let you cram in . I agree with Joel that John Wayne ( SNA ) and Long Beach ( LGB ) are better bets , but it 's worth keeping in mind that the shuttle fare is : $ 16 to/from LAX $ 10 to/from SNA $ 35 to/from LGB Which makes SNA look like the best bet . I have no idea why LGB is that much more when <URL> would be under $ 70 .
end question
start question
How to go boating on Pichavaram lake ?
For reference , <URL> has a review of it from earlier this year ( actually several ) . It appears there are two options for boating : row boat for an hour ( 160 rupees per person ) , or motor boat ride for 40 minutes for 1100 rupees total . The motorboat can sit at least 6 , so if you have a group this would work out quite reasonably . Further reviews under that suggest the same prices , and that the boat guy can take you to see some pretty interesting spots . There 's also a warning to bring your own food .
It 's safe . Per both the <URL> and <URL> , radiation levels in Hokkaido are safe ( green ) at less than 0.05 microSieverts ( μSv ) per hour , or 1.2 μSv / day . For comparison , if you live in a brick or concrete house you get a dose of <URL> , and if you spend 14 hours on a plane , you will get a dose of <URL> from atmospheric radiation .
An exhibit featuring the official high-fidelity replica , <URL> ( called Explorer when it was in Florida ) , atop the 747 shuttle carrier aircraft , is currently under construction <URL> at the Johnson Space Center in Houston . The <URL> states that Guests can take the elevator to the top to first enter the Independence using a timed-ticketing system . The first stop is be the flight deck , where guests can see how the astronauts piloted the orbiter through missions . One floor down , guests will see how cramped living conditions were on the mid-deck and walk out into the payload bay to see an actual flown artifact ... . Down one more level , guests enter shuttle carrier aircraft NASA 905 , the largest artifact from the Space Shuttle Program on display . Your next best bet is the brand-new <URL> at the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force near Dayton , Ohio , which features the Crew Compartment Trainer , a life-sized mockup . The exhibit " allows visitors to experience the size and shape of an actual space shuttle orbiter by entering the payload bay and looking into the flight deck and mid-deck levels . " My third suggestion would be the <URL> on display at the Museum of Flight in Seattle , Washington . It does not have the wings , but as its name indicates is a full-sized mockup of the fuselage that was used for astronaut training purposes . <URL> are available for a fee on weekends and public holidays . Other simulators are in the possession of the <URL> in North Florida , the Adler Planetarium in Chicago , and as noted by Kate Gregory , Texas A&amp;M University ; however , it is not clear as of February 2016 if any of these are accessible to the public . Shuttle Inspiration , a life-sized mockup of wood and plastic built by Rockwell in 1972 for its official proposal to build the shuttle , is now owned by the City of Downey , California . There are <URL> around it , but <URL> indicate it is being restored in preparation for a tour . I remember climbing on it on a science day for the Boy Scouts way back in the 1980s ; it gives you a sense of its size and the scale of the crew compartments , but of course there would n't be any genuine artifacts , making it just slightly better than various other independently created replicas that seem to be floating around . The <URL> , as you know , can not be entered by the public : Shuttle Enterprise at the Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum in New York . Shuttle Discovery at the Udvar-Hazy Center of the National Air and Space Museum near Dulles , Virginia Shuttle Endeavour at the California Science Center in Los Angeles . Shuttle Atlantis at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor 's Complex in Florida
I 'm assuming you do n't want to drive ( that 's still an option though ) but you have the choice between flying or taking the train . According to <URL> Fly Both cities have airports and both Indonesian Airlines and Air China have a service between the two , though the airport in Chita is a little far from the center of town . <URL> Train There 's a train that leaves twice a week to China from Chita 2 station which is closer to the city than the airport . There 's also a night train which interestingly enough seems to take less time , at least according to the website . It 's operated by Russian railways <URL> <URL>
There is no universal rule on stamping visas , entry or exit stamps in passports other than , they are not supposed to be stamped on Amendment / Endorsements pages in the back of passport ( but if there is no other space ... ) In the good old days , passport pages were divided into quarters and countries used two quarters , left for the entry , right for the exit stamps . I think it was more just customary rather than mandatory . Today immigration stamps come in a myriad of sizes and shapes , and many immigration officers ca n't be bothered to make the stamping look neat . Most will try to put the entry and exit stamps on the same or facing pages . I have pages with 6 to 8 stamps on them . Some countries do have rules that your passport needs to have XX completely blank pages and you will not be granted entry ( nor be allowed to board the plane to those countries ) without the blank pages . Others will simply stamp in any blank spot big enough for their stamp .
I can add that we participate in the NYC Walkabout which runs annually . Unfortunately , the one this year already happened 3 weeks ago . walkaboutnyc.com
The website I prefer for UK train timetables is <URL> . One of it 's handy features is being able to look up the last train of the day , for example <URL> . As Roflcoptr pointed out , the last weekday train at the moment is the 22:35 , which gets you into Cambridge at 01:22 ( via a cross London transfer to Kings Cross ) . You might just be able to get away with the 22:50 from Gatwick , if you have n't got too much luggage . The 22:50 gets into London Victoria at 23:20 , which gives you 40 minutes to get down to the tube , wait for a tube , travel 5 stops , and get up to the station . Fine if there are no problems and you 're not too bad for luggage , but ca n't be guaranteed ... Otherwise , it 's a National Express coach to London , then change onto a different National Express coach to Cambridge . The website for looking up times and prices is <URL> . Does n't look good though , leaving Gatwick at 23:40 today wo n't get you to Cambridge until about 5am ...
Assuming that you 're traveling on one ticket ( and , as you say , on the same airline ) , your luggage will be checked through all the way to your final destination in the UK , and you wo n't see it as it 's transferred between flights at Frankfurt . [ If in doubt , check that the airport code of your destination airport appears on your bag claim tag ; but most check-in agents will spontaneously tell you whether the bag has been checked through ] . When you arrive in the UK , collect your suitcase and go through one of the " arrivals from outside EU " lanes at customs ( color-coded red if you have goods to declare , green if you do n't ) . This is the general procedure for all arriving flights into the EU that connect to an intra-EU flight , unless the final destination is a domestic airport without any customs presence . For completeness ( and in contrast to what someone said in a comment ) , you will not have to go through immigration in Frankfurt either . Since where you came from ( the US ) and where you 're going to ( the UK ) are both outside the Schengen area , you do n't need to leave the extra-Schengen part of the airport in Frankfurt . ( Of course , if your layover is long enough and you have a passport that gives you visa-free entry to Schengen , you still have a choice of going through immigration anyway and have a look around ) .
I 've just come from there . Something interesting to note - unless you go really touristy - Mongolians traditionally use wooden saddles , something I was NOT expecting to see :) They and Kyrgyzstan share quite a lot of the same culture , including horse riding , and the nomadic / semi nomadic lifestyle . But at least the Kyrgs do n't use wooden saddles ;) In both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan ( and indeed in parts of Kazakhstan and Siberia ) there were frequent horse riding opportunities - from a few hours to several days . I 'd decide first what terrain you 'd like to do it on ( bearing in mind it can get quite painful in the saddle if it 's new to you ) , and then find a country with that . Both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan are fairly cheap to live in , but the tourist activities in Mongolia struck me as being very overpriced . I preferred Kyrgyzstan for the CBT approach ( Comunity Based Tourism ) . You can email the CBT and ask about tours or suggestions . From what I saw , I 'd suggest perhaps doing it from Cholpon-Ata just near Lake Izzyk-Kul . It 's a beautiful region and has both options of steep rides or open plains . And the opportunities are certainly cheaper , and you can recover afterwards on the beaches by the lake :)
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
There 's nothing wrong with going into Jordan on an Israeli passport . I know ( second/third-hand ) people who have done so . Israel and Jordan currently have full diplomatic ties . Chances are , if you try and hide things , they 'll get more suspicious . Several years ago , we traveled US-England-Turkey on American passports , and from Turkey to Israel ( also on the American passport ) , intending to use the Israeli passport only to get in/out of Israel . In Turkey , however , they did ask to see our Israeli passports . So you see , better to be totally upfront and use the same passport in both places ( unless you have a good reason not to , such as when entering/leaving the passport 's country ) .
There 's a Thermal Spa Centre ! The new thermal spa centre , on the opposite bank of the river Passirio , was opened during the 1970 's and is furnished with the most modern equipment for therapeutic treatment . It also houses an indoor swimming-pool filled with thermal water and the natural radio-activity in this water has a most beneficial pathological effect . The spa centre is open all year round and specialises in a vast selection of curative treatments . <URL> <URL> Prices range depending on whether you want a spa , a bath , and for how long . <URL> . There certainly does n't appear to be any indication of nudity .
Depends on what you call " going Robinson Crusoe " . If it is about spending time alone on an uninhabited island , I guess the answer is " Sure " . I have met various people who did so , when they were sailing through the Caribbean . The options to do so is not limited to the Bahamas alone . I was told that it is relatively cheap to buy a yacht in that area from European sailors who after crossing the atlantic do n't feel the urge to experience yet again the gulf of Biscay . Those boats are typically quite worn out , which would add a bit to the Robinson Crusoe experience . So if it is only about being alone on a deserted island , just buy one of these boats and sail away . If " going Robinson Crusoe " , however means being lost for years , the fact that I have met various people who did spent time alone on an uninhabited island makes it impossible . Spending time on an island without being noticed by civilization for an extended period of time , is simply impossible given the number of people sailing the Caribbean . these days . PS . Robinson crusoe was stranded : " Who lived Eight and Twenty Years , all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America , near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroonoque " . The island is situated in front of the Guyana 's . There are quite some small islands over there , of which <URL> . Even devil 's island is not visible on <URL> . I have the impression that your chances on getting lost unnoticed in that area is higher then in the Bahamas . " Devil 's island is ofcourse not a good choice , but there are more of these small islands .
You probably want to ride the Airport bus from the ICN to Dongducheon ( # 7001 ) - the closest town to Yeoncheon , and take a taxi from there . It will save you time , money , and headaches . : : EDIT : : I am sorry that I did not carefully read your question . There is a way to get there . You can use what is referred to as " 콜택시 " and reserve a ride with a fixed price . Only operates in Korean , so ask a friend to arrange it if you ca n't yourself . <URL>
When I did my research a few years ago I read that the biggest likelihood of seeing gorillas is in Uganda , I have n't tried it myself though . I was traveling around other parts of Uganda and it felt reasonably safe - we were using public transport and cheap accommodation . It was a few years ago though , you should check the current situation ( usually foreign ministries have travel advice service - e.g. from <URL> ) .
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
Wikipedia 's entry on <URL> has detailed information on tracks and lodges . It also provides 6 references with details . Apparently about 700 people visit annually . It is reached as a side trip of <URL> . There is a map <URL> . The blue lake is a side trip , estimated to take <URL> . DISCLAIMER : I have n't been there , all information stated here is fully based on the mentioned Wikipedia entry .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
Considering you are a Greece passport holder you can simply hop on a plane and go to Chile for a stay of up to 90 days . Greece nationals do not need a visa if they intend to visit Chile for less than 90 days . Kindly make sure your passport is at least 90 days till expiry , prefer to be 6 months . resourceful links : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you want to clear any confusions you can call the embassy @ 202-785-1746
end question
start question
Qantas Carbon offsets are different in different directions - why ?
I suspect this is a result of Jet streams . This is most commonly observed by different flight times between the same cities . It generally takes longer ( 25 % or so ) to fly from Europe to the U.S. than from the U.S. to Europe . This is because the high-altitude jet streams across the Atlantic blow from west to east , providing a boost in one direction , and a penalty in the other . You can read a bit more about it <URL> , as well as many other places on google . The jet stream will either improve fuel efficiency and flight time , or hurt it , depending on whether the aircraft is flying with or against the wind . To help compensate for jet streams , routes are often altered one way or the other , to provide for the most efficient travel . This can lead to drastically different miles flown , as well . On aircraft equipped with flight status monitors , you may notice the discrepancy between two flights . Unfortunately , I doubt this will ever affect your frequent flier miles :) This would easily explain a difference in carbon emissions .
As of 2016 , the manned passport checks at Prague airport were replaced with boarding pass scanners . As a matter of fact , I did n't once have to show an ID flying PRG-BCN today . Therefore the question is now moot .
India had tried to curb unauthorized trading between these countries by requesting they ban them . However , as of 2013 , <URL> . <URL> also banned it for similar reasons . However , as of January 2015 , the <URL> . So yes , that used to be the law , and it was to curb unauthorised trading , but that ban has now been lifted officially .
If you search for MXO-LON connections , you will notice that there is a preference towards 1-stop flights with change in ATL , generally with a carrier change , i.e. 2 separate tickets per person . ( The direct flight with British Airways is even more expensive than a 2-carrier flight it seems . ) Because you already have " paid the multi-ticket penalty " , you might as well use it to the fullest and nudge the search engine to use a different stopover location ( JFK ) -- there is not much variance in overall cost . So , with the result from the search engine , just go to each carrier 's webpage and do the single bookings according to the itinerary . Do it in reverse order ( first JFK-LON-JFK for 2 persons , then MXO-JFK-MXO for 1 person ) , so that , should some odd problem during booking arise , there is still the possibility to add an extra day with hotel , without being late at the destination .
The answer you get will depend entirely on who you ask ... If you ask the tour operator they will claim they use a Kitty system as it makes it easier to get the money to the tour operators and the passengers generally give it to them directly on day one , often in local currency or currency that can be used locally ( such as US$ ) . It also allows them to change the Kitty amount after the trip has been booked and paid for if local conditions change - ie , they are moving some of the risk of price fluctuations from the tour company to the passenger , even if the passenger did the right thing and booked and paid early . If you ask most tour passengers , it 's simply a way for them to make the trip look cheaper . Rather than advertising a tour as being $ 2000 , they can advertise it as being $ 1500 , and then in the small print mention that there 's a $ 500 kitty payable . If you ask a travel agent , they will tell you that the kitty is a way of the tour company avoiding paying them commission . Travel agents will normally earn a percentage of the price paid for a trip , but only of the component that is the actual " price " of the trip , not any extra components such as the kitty , so they miss out of commission of the kitty component . Some companies seem to abuse this more than others - the specific example you 've included in the question is a great example of that - the kitty price ends up being 40 % of what you pay for the trip ! In some countries ( Australia , US ) the tour companies are required to display the " full " price at time of booking , so the kitty payment is at least clear before booking , but in other countries it 's not uncommon for the kitty price to not be clearly displayed , and it can some as quite a shock to some people when they find out about it after booking !
You can get a dramatic reduction in price without sacrificing comfort and safety by selecting a Paris suburb that has good Metro connections ... <URL> is a short walk to ' Boulogne-Pont de Saint-Cloud ' metro station and a quick search locates decent hotels starting at about EUR 85 . <URL> has its own metro station and a quick search locates brand name hotels starting at about EUR 100 ( better deals on the weekends ) <URL> has brand name hotels in the same price range as Saint-Cloud , but requires a 15 minute walk across the bridge to reach the metro station . The commute from these places to central Paris ranges from 30 ( La Défense ) to 60 minutes ( Sèvres ) . These places are in the western suburbs of Paris . I find that area more appealing for reasons vaguely related to safety and long-standing familiarity ( generally not worth going into here ) , but there would be similar opportunities in the southern suburbs also . Adding ... The answer to your question : " Why are hotels in Paris too expensive ? " is because they can .
Short version : No , you do n't need a new ESTA . Longer version : Since you have an ESTA , you are presumably the citizen of a <URL> country . This means you are allowed to enter the US " <URL> " , which includes both your honeymoon and your academic conference . The ESTA is , in legal theory , not a visa , it 's just a " travel authorization " that pre-certifies that you likely meet the VWP conditions . It 's valid for unlimited visits for any valid reason during its two years of validity , assuming you continue to meet the VWP terms .
At least in Germany , I do n't think security is an issue . Although it actually is uncommon to find waste bins in means of transport for shorter distances , you will find waste bins in most , if not all , regional and long distance trains or inter-city buses . I would rather assume that it is simply so tedious and/or time consuming to empty the waste bins , that none are installed . Intra-city means of transport are often quite crowded and it would be practically impossible for someone to walk through e.g. a packed subway wagon during normal operation to empty the bins . If the driver was supposed to empty the bins at the end of a line , this would take some time and cause both more personnel as well as more vehicles to be required .
I 've traveled to the UK several times in the same fashion ( passport on the way in , residency card on the way out ) , and at no time did the immigration officer assume I 've overstayed on my previous trip . So either the UK does n't keep a tight track on how long people stay or they 've simply matched me in the database by name/birthday . Either way it 's fine .
In my experience as a holder of multiple passports , airlines do n't care what passport details you enter when you book . ( The primary exception being the US , which is picky and wants to know everything in advance . ) As long as your name does n't change , and they can verify on check-in that you have a visa or do n't need one , they 're fine . Out of interest , where did you get " changing the passport information on non-refundable tickets is generally a very costly operation " from ? Changing the name on the ticket is indeed costly , but I 've never heard of an airline charging for changes to passport details .
The airport web site suggests you may be <URL> : A priority lane will be available for Nexus cardholders and airline guests with priority designations . NEXUS cardholders and airline guests with priority access may enter the U.S. Customs hall directly at any time by showing their boarding pass and/or valid Nexus card and U.S. Customs card . This may be because you have a membership with the airline that provides priority access to boarding and other services , because you are disabled , or whatever other reason the airline might designate you as a " priority " traveler . Such a designation would appear on your boarding pass .
Michael gave you some pretty common destination so I 'm going to add some less touristy but awesome places around Milan . Since I love lakes I would suggest you a visit around the many lakes you can find in the area , Lake Garda being probably the most famous one . <URL> What to do <URL> It is where the Italian writer Gabriele d'Annunzio lived after his defenestration in 1922 until his death in 1938 . The estate consists of the residence of d'Annunzio called the Prioria ( priory ) , an amphitheatre , the light cruiser Puglia set into a hillside , a boathouse containing the MAS vessel used by D'Annunzio in 1918 and a circular mausoleum . <URL> and <URL> <URL> is surely worth a visit among with <URL> . <URL> Verona is a pretty nice and small city which was awarded the World Heritage Site . The city itself is beautiful and there 's the famous amphitheatre and well . . the balcony of Juliet , of course , among many others thing you may want to visit . One option you may consider is to stay somewhere in Verona or Desenzano and then do day trips to the places I listed ( or others you have found yourself ) . You may also consider to ride a bike so you wo n't be bus-bounded ( even tho the bus system in that area works pretty well ) . <URL> is the official site for trains schedule . Milano - Verona is about 1h 20mins and it runs pretty frequently . A ticket is around 20 $ . The area around <URL> is also very beautiful and closer . Honestly , tho , If you have never been to <URL> , I would spend the five days there since five days are perfect to really start to get to know the city , not just the most crowded touristy places . If you are lucky you can find hostels for about 20 $ / night but you better book in advance . After visiting the most famous places just roam around the city and get lost , go to Castello , Dorsoduro , sestieri where people hang out the clothes outside ( well , probably not with these weather :) ) far from all the tourists . Venice is also pretty safe so roaming around night ( less tourists as a bonus ) it 's highly recommended . Do n't be afraid to get lost in those small calli , it 's totally awesome . I love to just walk and look around and Venice is a good place to practice this degeneration but I do n't know if it 's the same for you . If you are more for a quick visit to the touristy places than you may want to stay in Venice two to three days and then move somewhere else . If you are on a tight budget you may want to consider grab some food at the grocery store instead of going to the restaurant ( eating something reasonably good for a reasonable price in Venice it 's very difficult ) . Grocery stores that I know are : <URL> <URL> ( in Italian but pretty easy to figure out the address ) Local dishes you may want to try are : <URL> Cotoletta alla milanese ( milanese after its place of origin , Milan ) is a fried cutlet similar to Wiener schnitzel , but cooked " bone-in " . It is fried in clarified butter or olive oil [ 1 ] and traditionally uses exclusively milk-fed veal . <URL> Risotto alla milanese is made with beef stock , beef bone marrow , lard ( instead of butter ) and cheese , flavored and colored with saffron . <URL> <URL>
Yes . At this writing , nothing in the <URL> specifically excludes earnings on Emirates-operated flights . The <URL> indicates Earn elite-qualifying AAdvantage miles when you fly on Qantas marketed and operated flights as well as Qantas Airways codeshare flights . Simply : Buy an eligible published fare ticket booked in an eligible code Fly an eligible route The accrual table is also provided on the partner page . At this writing , only Qantas codeshares operated by Jetstar are specifically excluded from earning AA miles . Other QF-coded flights should be fine , provided it is not prohibited in the fare rules . The FlyerTalk wikis on <URL> and <URL> as of August 2015 also seem to confirm that it is possible , with various anecdotal reports of success . FlyerTalk is generally up-to-date on such matters . N.B. Earning AAdvantage miles flying on EY and other non-oneworld operated flights as a QANTAS codeshare / marketed flight is an exception to oneworld rules that essentially state that to earn miles one must fly a oneworld marketed flight operated by a oneworld airline . See post # 4 for more . and To reiterate : one may earn AAdvantage miles flying an Emirates ( or Air Fiji , Air Tahiti Nui , etc. ) operated flight if it is marketed by QANTAS / a Qantas codeshare . <URL> at TravelingBetter.com .
As long as you have proof of exit from the US , that is all US customs and immigration will care about . I think you can safely relax and go through the normal shuffle of collecting your bags and rechecking them in for your onward flight , etc. .
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
I have never before noticed this , but a quick check over several airlines at <URL> confirmed that other airlines do that as well . The logic behind this is that the letters A and K will always be window seats . The letter K is chosen , because it 's the highest that you can go in a normal airplane with 10 seats across ( An <URL> for instance ) . I is omitted because of it 's resemblance to 1 . Note that Avianca does this even for the smaller airplanes , where you 'll have ACDK . B and E are omitted so that C and D are always aisle seats . This is also maintained on the bigger <URL> , where numbering is AC - DEFG - JK . Just to illustrate , here 's are the seat configuration for all their planes : So A and K are window seats ; C , G seats with aisle on the right ; D , J seats with aisle on the left ; B , E , F middle seats . It 's a little illogical on the other side though , I do n't understand why they use J instead of H , would make more sense to put a H , then if they happen to buy bigger air planes , they could just fit in the B and the H. There 's a little bit more information on this on <URL> .
No , you can not transfer points between Star Alliance carriers . There are some mechanisms that can be used to transfer between specific carriers , such as <URL> , or transferring via a hotel program ( eg , carrierA - > hotel program - > carrierB ) , however these are generally poor value as you end up losing a significant number of points during the transfer ( s ) .
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
It was fairly widely reported that fuel costs made the flights uneconomical . The maintenance of the A340-500s SIA retained specifically for the flight also contributed , as they only had five A340-500s . Sample quotes : It is widely known in the industry that SIA 's A340-500 non-stop flights to the U.S. are unprofitable , because of the four-engined aircraft 's higher fuel burn . Some SIA executives were also questioning why the carrier was going to the trouble of maintaining such a small fleet of A340s . <URL> Snyder and most other experts suspect the airline got tired of dealing with poor profit margins on the fuel-guzzling four-engine Airbus A340 . " They do use a ton of fuel , and that 's always painful , " says Snyder . <URL>
You might want to check out : <URL> The official site for the <URL> which has an <URL> You might also consider the <URL> If you want to buy bus tickets to other cities , consider <URL> If you are staying in Buenos Aires for a considerable time you will save money with the <URL> card . I am not sure about the requirements for foreigners though .
end question
start question
Is it necessary to book trains in the Jungfrau region ?
There is no need to book anything in advance here . Go to the station , buy a ticket and take the train . After checking at <URL> , it seems that the trains from Interlaken to Grindelwald and Lauterbrunnen are not included in the pass . There is no cable car to the Jungfraujoch . You have to take a train from Grindelwald or Wengen to the <URL> station . From there you proceed by a second train to the so-called top of Europe . Both these trains are <URL> . Maybe the author of the " Rough Guide " was a bit imprecise on that ... Note that the Jungfrau railway is not included either in your Interrail pass .
There are some offers that start appearing on the web : A website called <URL> offers that ( it 's based in UK so be careful with currency of payment - see the <URL> to this question ) . <URL> offers flights and trains ( apparently it 's possible to book some outside France [ it 's a French travel agency ] but I can not guarantee it ) . In any way , as Mouviciel suggested , you can query trains in Europe from the <URL> / <URL> / <URL> providers but not book tickets out of these countries . You can have a lot of information on the trains ( like all stops ) and I use it sometimes for any train in Europe . It includes some local transit system . More generally , there is <URL> that will probably help you .
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
AFAIK , it does not work that way , it is not a type of discount that you get at a counter by showing a seaman 's book or ID . These kind of discounts are usually given to seamen by their companies ( ship owners ) , the company will contact the airline and get a special discount . This is used when the shipping company needs to move crew from one area to another , to operate a different ship or when moving seamen back to their ships after leaves . One more thing , this is usually done by arranging bilateral agreements between shipping companies and airlines , it is not a guaranteed benefit . This kind of agreements do exist not only with ships companies , but also it can happen with major companies , I have seen oil companies with such benefits , but again , it is not something the employee can get by himself , it has to be done at company level .
I asked my Turkish friends and here 's what they had to say : although major cities do have water filtration plants and water is considered drinkable at the source , the quality of water pipes that supply it within a building or in specific localities might be suspect . You are , thus , better off not drinking tap water straight unless you 're using it after boiling ( or in foods/drinks where water is boiled in the process ) or filtering .
It depends on which trains you 're using , as they differ from service to service . A <URL> covers much of this . I 'll try and summarise : Sun and Ski Thalys - only guide dogs Thalys - small and guide dogs = free in a basket . Bigger dogs = buy a ticket . TGV - yes , but must buy a ticket and be in a box or muzzled and on a leash . Eurostar - only guide dogs . ICE - yes , with exceptions , tickets to be purchased . Domestic Netherlands trains - yes , <URL> apply : A small pet that fits into a bag or basket or can be kept on your lap may free on the train . For leashed pets you must purchase a Day Pass dog . Regardless of your destination this ticket costs $ 3 . Note that each rail carrier uses other terms and rules . If you have an OV-year subscription , you may take one dog free .
I would n't bet on a mosquito net being available in any low cost options . As for the mosquitoes , it really depends on the season and the city you are travelling to . Some cities/towns just naturally do n't have a lot of mosquitoes in any of the seasons . Since one ca n't be sure of the guarantee of the availability of a mosquito net ( and of those that are available , most are useless since just a small tiny hole in the net is sufficient to ruin your sleep . Indian mosquitoes are really tiny ( and sting like hell ! ) compared to the average mosquitoes in US homes ) , allow me to list a few almost sure shot ways of sleeping mosquito free . Your options may change if a child is involved in your travel . : If you do n't have an overly sensitive bronchial system , you could burn a Mosquito coil/incense during the night . When I was there , one coil ( which lasts about 6 hours ) cost like one rupee . And it is available in most mom 'n pop stores down the road . There is a very effective repellent ointment called Odomos . Very cheap and easily available in almost any pharmacy . Nah , you do n't need a doctors prescription for this . Once when stuck in an extremely remote place , the village folks gathered some dried leaves ( Neem ? ) and fumed the rooms , so that works too . There is also an option of mosquito repellent machines . They are inexpensive too ( less than 1 USD ) , but I would buy one if I was staying put in one place for over 2 weeks . I would be very skeptical of a reservation guy in some cheap hotel guaranteeing a ' very good mosquito net ' . Also , another option is , you can buy one and travel with it . They are not overly expensive . Just discard/donate when leaving . I think only in extreme cases will none of these three options be available in India .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
If you have a visa , it 's either single-entry or multiple-entry . If you have visa-free entries , it works as if you were getting a new visa each time you cross the border . You can visit multiple times , as long as your <URL> .
Egypt , as like much of North Africa and parts of the Middle East , is volatile . <URL> of the US has a comprehensive website detailing the latest information on the country . It points out that while crime is relatively low , there has of course been several incidents of protests , riots and political upheaval over the past year . In the end , it is always going to be a gut feel thing . Many tour companies are offering 2 for 1 deals to get people to return to Egypt . People point out that apart from an <URL> , the violence has largely not targeted foreigners . Anecdotal information from friends who have been since the uprising say that they felt entirely safe . Tour companies are going to have the latest information and will know which areas to avoid . The election may change things dramatically , but given it looks to be the first ' free ' elections in decades , it may be a good thing , with celebrations rather than protests . If you 're not going anyway until 2012 , perhaps wait . I booked a tour over Christmas 4 years ago with 2 weeks notice , and given the situation , you should n't have a problem finding a tour or flights around then . In the end , as the state department website says , " There is nobody better at protecting you than yourself . " . Be careful , keep informed , be safe .
Hotels usually have a full legally regulated rate ( the one posted on the inside of the door inside the room ) , a walk in rate ( what they charge if you just show up ) and an advance booking rate . The full rate that is posted is usually equal to the walk in rate during peak season and , with the exception of a holiday surcharge ( NYE , Xmas , etc ) , is the highest amount they can legally charge for that room . The walk in rate varies depending on the season , during shoulder season in Hawai'i it could be quite a bit lower than during peak summer season . While this rate is usually a set amount , most front desks have some leeway to discount that rate if the hotel has low occupancy . The discounted rates offered by the hotel for advance bookings through its own website vs the rates offered through OTAs , like Agoda or Expedia , etc are becoming more equal as time goes by . The primary advantage of OTAs is being able to look at multiple options on one page AND since OTAs have blocks of rooms they committed to , they will offer the same discounted rate right up to check in day . Hawai'i is busy but not totally sold out , with the exception of the peak seasons , you can find rooms available in most areas upon arrival . And even during peak summer and the new year period , there will be some room to be had somewhere . Personally I would book my first stay before leaving for the islands , just for the ease of arriving and relaxing instead of hunting down rooms . Then as you piece together your next location , get online with the OTAs booking.com , hotels.com , agoda.com etc and see what they have available . If rooms are available you can book them right up until you arrive at the hotel . You can also use the price the OTAs quote as bargaining material if you want to walk in and book direct with the hotel . And if you spot a really cool hotel while wandering around but the front desk tells you they have no rooms , check with the OTAs as they may have space in their blocks still , which the front desk ca n't access to sell direct .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
You might not have a seat . In European trains , the seat reservation is independent from the train pass . Some trains require a seat reservation ( TGVs in France ) but not all . In German countries ( at least Germany and Austria ) it is possible to buy a train ticket and then a seat ticket . You can also buy it anytime ( as long as there are seats left ) and the price is always the same ( apparently 3-3 ,5 $ in Austria ) In practice , what will happen if you do n't pay for the seat is that you 're gon na go through the coaches and search for a free seat . In Austria , it apparently is written on the seat whether it is reserved . Most of the time you 'll find a seat , since trains have hundreds of seats , but you might look for some time . For long-distance trains ( like ICEs across Germany ) the seat will be used by several passengers throughout the trip so you might need to switch seat if it is reserved for a short part of the trip . Another important parameter is peak hours . I suppose the train will be pretty full then . Especially on Railjet trains , that are apparently operating on the main lines of Austrian network . For more details : <URL>
If you attempt to book at <URL> site you could see the amenities that a train has . For example <URL> for April 5th lists that trains have restroom in them . P.S. Not sure that I would consider trains in Israel travelling long distances .
Sorry , no trains . I am not sure about freight trains , but there are no passengers trains in Nicaragua anymore since 2001 . Wikipedia has a <URL> In fact there is only one passenger train in the whole of central America and that 's a <URL> along the Panama canal . Further north in Mexico there are lots of freight trains but very few <URL>
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
I 'm in Tbilisi for the past few days , so could check it here . I asked around in a few currency exchange places - and none of them accept foreign coins , lira or otherwise . One of the places suggested that TBC bank branches may be able to exchange coins , however I did n't manage to get to a bank . My advice would be to take the lira coins with you and head straight for a bank branch . While the exchange rate is n't as favourable as in independent exchange centres , at least you may stand a better chance .
Refusing to eat totally is indeed very rude . In fact , it might be taken as an insult if you were the main guest . However , you can always ask for a plate and a spoon , fill the plate and eat the way you are used to . This will totally save the situation and will be understood positively since people know how foreigners eat , but not eating at all is something you should avoid . By the way , asking for a spoon or fork is totally normal even if you were n't a foreigner .
I 'm afraid you 'll have to learn Korean first ! From <URL> article from The Jeju Weekly : An after-school program for learning the dialect is offered in a couple of public schools . This suggests that it should be possible . The article even mentions an iPhone app about the <URL> , but I did n't find it . The Jeju Special Self Governing Province site has a page on the Jeju language ( <URL> , <URL> . The most useful part for you might be the contact name and phone number at the end .
end question
start question
Would you recommend driving or taking a tour bus in Iceland ?
I feel you are worried about the difficulty and quality of the roads , so I 'll address that . The main roads are well maintained asphalt and it is easy to drive to the most popular spots like <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . There are many gravel side roads and in some of the areas they are the only option ( West/East Fjords , including parts of the Ring Road ) , but they are quite well maintained as well . If you are a careful driver , you will be ok . Especially if you decide to go for a car with higher clearance and bigger tires . Unless you plan to drive deep into the interior , I would n't say you need to worry about very difficult driving conditions . That being said , if you are afraid to drive on narrow roads that are not asphalt and have no idea on how to change a wheel in case of a tire puncture , you may need to be extra careful . As for the bus tours . In my opinion having your own car is always better , because you can take your time and enjoy scenery on your own pace . But that is whole another discussion . EDIT : Two useful links when planning a road trip in Iceland : <URL> <URL>
You have to confirm with your rental agency that you 're allowed to do that . In Europe most agencies allow you to travel in all countries of central and western Europe , but forbid you to visit countries in the East , like for example Belarus , Poland , Croatia , etc. . However , it will be likely that your rental agency will bill you an extra fee if you want to cross the border . Normally it is around 100 Euros . Then a personal hint from me which you have to be careful about : There is no real border between Spain and France , so the chances are high that you 're rental agency will not notice if you drive to France . However be aware if you have an accident in France and did n't tell the agency that you will cross the border , you will have big trouble . Btw if we are talking about the Pyrenees : When planning your trip you should keep in mind that the roads there are really hilly and you will need much time to get from one place to another , even if it looks close on the map . And there are only a few passes between France and Spain which you can pass by car . However I can really recommend the region . Was there this summer with my own car , and it is really nice there and worth the trip !
Being Dutch , I have never heard of such law . I also doubt there is a law that would cover this , I would take it as a try to intimidate you . But also as a ' please really , really do not do this . ' If caught out after you made the picture and before you had seen the sign , I would let them try to sue you . But if seeing the sign before you take the picture , do not take one . If the designs in the shop are unique , they have the right to protect their copy-right , but that would go for pictures of the clothing without it being worn . I would not let me be bullied into buying their clothing , but I would also not take photos of me wearing stock unless I have approval of shop staff . Added : Taking the photo is not breaking the copy-right laws , using the information from the photo might be . But that breaking of the copy-right laws can also happen after you have bought the item , much easier even . So I doubt the judge ( if it came to a court case ) would accept it as reason to be forced to buy the item . I am Dutch , I am not a lawyer but I am pretty much aware of customer rights .
We do it from Peru side . You have to go to <URL> port and buy one of the excursions they sell that could be just for a lake trip or you can stay one night with a family in Taquile or Amantani islands . That option is very recommendable . You also have the option to talk with a fisherman and negotiate a better price , but my advice is to buy a tourist excursion , because it 's not expensive and nobody there speaks English so you may end up visiting a beach or going to Bolivia because of a misspelling . " Can I see anything special ? " You will see how these people live every day without electricity and some other comforts of modern life .
The choice is about : freedom of movement vs hassle &amp; costs . The good thing about your own vehicle is that it will take you wherever you want to go , whenever you want to go . Even to the places that are not served by public transport . The downside is that crossing borders with a car increases hassle , this will be most notable when shipping your car around the Darien Gap . The good thing about using public transport is that is easy and ( likely ) more expensive * . * ) Although public transport is considerably more expensive per mile traveled , I calculated that the costs for shipping ( + handlings and border duties ) around the Darien Gap is a big factor in the overall costs of doing this trip with your own vehicle . So driving your own vehicle may turn out to be more expensive . The more miles you travel , the cheaper driving your own vehicle will be . I did my calculations for 2 people , so I estimate it would turn out to be cheaper to drive your own car , if you do the calculations for 3 people . Most travelers I talked to told me that by selling a car in the south that you bought in the north , you will likely not lose too much money , maybe even make a small profit . ( selling a car in the north that you bought in the south is going to cost ya ) .
Star Alliance does n't have a loyalty program . The individual airlines within the alliance each have their own loyalty programs , and each program has it 's own criteria/promotions/etc . You would need to check with the individual program that you 're a member of to see if they have any such promotions , but at least the few that I 'm aware of do NOT have anything like you 've described .
The end of most major bus lines from Santiago is in Puerto Montt , from there people usually take the <URL> ferry to go further south , for example to Puerto Natales where there is another road . This is not a short ferry , more a cruise ship and takes four days . The other option is to go to Chiloé island which is south-west of Puerto Montt , There are several buses a day ( <URL> ) to Quellon , the southernmost city on Chiloe . Again there is a ferry involved to get to the island , but the ferry ride is much shorter and I think you stay on the bus .
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
but there are a lot of blogs online about that stuff and it seems pointless to add another . There are never enough blogs on any topic . See <URL> . What things to consider especially for travel blogs ? the backend ( where you create your content and config your blog ) should be accessible from mobile devices ; if it 's no fun / not easy , you 'll probably do n't post so much if a problem occurs , you should be able to handle/fix it on tour ( or contact someone who can do it for you ) backups should be done automatically ( e.g. send a database dump daily to a separate mail account ) if you use internet cafés and/or untrusted networks , your password could be stolen ; do n't use an admin account to post/edit content ; but have admin login available for emergencies ( e.g. to delete compromised user accounts ) good <URL> : functionality to add new posts by email Self-hosting vs. 3rd party service Self-hosting advantages you get exactly what you want it 's your content , you have full control , you can backup it ( some services allow this , too , but not all ) no policies , no censorship , no rules , no service terms you can fix any problems yourself ( and do n't have to wait for the provider to do it ) you can create/use accounts with lesser privileges ( security ) disadvantages costs more time costs money ( hosting ) need to know that stuff ( resp . dig into it ) you have to update the software yourself ( security ) you need to fix any problems yourself ;) 3rd party service advantages no setup , no configuration , no updates ( usually ) no costs disadvantages might not offer exactly what you need ; customization possibilites are limited you do n't " own " your content ; ( often ) no backup possibility you have to respect their service terms ( often ) ads you ca n't do anything if it goes down ( often ) you have only one account ; if your password is stolen , your account is lost risk of being deleted ( for no reason ) , risk that the service might shut down forever
I ca n't comment on Laos as I 've never been there for Songkran/New Year ( although it is probably my favorite place on the planet otherwise ! ) , however ... I was in Bangkok during Songkran several years ago ( 2004 I think ) , and it was an amazing atmosphere and experience , especially around Khao San Road . If you 're in a different part of the country there will still be some form of celebration , but it 's not as intense as in Bangkok/Khao San Road . Whether it 's worth the extra money to you is obviously not a question I can answer , but if it were me I would be handing over the $ 80 in an instant ! Keep in mind that logistically things can be a little more difficult during/around Songkran , especially if you 're staying around Khao San Road . Roads are closed/blocked , and even taxis/tuk-tuks/etc will not be able to get through so you may end up having to walk the last few blocks to/from your hotel - with the real possibility of getting very wet in the process ( although people are generally respectful of people with luggage/etc , there 's always collateral damage to worry about ... )
Here 's a page from South African Customs that may be useful : <URL> As a practical matter , no . Personal effects that travelers bring in with the intent of bringing them back out at the end of a visit are generally exempt from duty , and South Africa appears to be no different in that regard . You are allowed to bring " personal effects " ( except for prohibited and restricted items , like illegal drugs or weapons ) without payment of duty , as long as you 'll be taking them back out of the country with you . This is why your clothes are n't subject to duty either . You can also bring 5,000 Rand of goods duty free , such as gifts you plan to leave in South Africa . You can see this on the <URL> you 'll be asked to complete as well : Personal effects and/or sporting and recreational equipment are duty and tax free if brought in by : Visitors for own use and if goods do not remain in South Africa Now , for some valuable items , it 's possible that they 'll want a deposit , to make sure that you do n't plan to leave the goods behind and evade payment : Please note that you may be required to lodge a cash deposit to cover the potential duty/tax on expensive articles if you are bringing them in on a temporary basis . The deposit will be refunded when you leave after a Customs officer has physically inspected the items and verified that the goods are being re-exported . Visitors must notify the Customs office where the deposit was lodged at least two days before you leave to ensure that the refund is ready . You will find the office number on the documents which will be given to you when paying your deposit . If you are leaving from a port other than the port where you lodged the deposit , the inspection report confirming the re-exportation of the items will be forwarded to the office where the deposit was lodged and a cheque will be posted to the address that you provided . A deposit requirement like this for an ordinary business traveler 's laptop seems quite unlikely to me . Travelers routinely bring their used laptops and other common electronic items with them to many countries without incident or charge . In the very unlikely case that Customs believes you plan to leave the laptop in the country , they have the right to require a deposit , which you can reclaim on your way out after you present the laptop . It would be a good idea to have some kind of proof that you bought the laptop in India and paid taxes on it there , so you can demonstrate to Indian Customs officials that you are bringing it back and should not be charged duty on it .
In fact , your potential for scenic views will be higher on virtually any mode of transportation other than the bus ( plane , train , private car , boat ) . There is quite stunning scenery along the coast . Amtrak 's <URL> follows some of it , between San Luis Obispo and Oxnard , and a seat can be had for as little as $ 60 coach . But keep in mind that this trip will take a minimum of 12 hours from Oakland to Los Angeles , that there is only one train a day , and this train is frequently delayed . Renting a car and driving gives you the most flexibility to enjoy coastal scenery along routes such as the <URL> and <URL> . Of course , a one-way rental is costly , fuel is astronomically expensive by U.S. standards along parts this route , and as you can imagine , driving along oceanside cliffs is exhausting . Buses do not take the coastal route for the same reasons , aside from some tour buses that may take three or four days to make the journey . The scheduled passenger services all take the straight , fast , flat route through the Central Valley along Interstate 5 . As you can imagine , a freeway trip amidst heavy truck traffic passing through an endless series of farms and ranches is not particularly memorable . The bus does offer certain advantages over flying , but I would rate them all as moderate . Cost . An advanced purchase one-way Megabus ticket between Union Station in LA and the CalTrain terminal in SF runs around $ 34 ( and can be as low as $ 10 ) . The ride is about 7-8 hours . An advanced purchase Southwest Airlines ticket from LAX to OAK starts around $ 69 , with a block time of around 1 1/2 hours . Keep in mind too that on a long bus journey , you will be taking a meal at a truck stop , probably overpriced and of poor quality . Convenience . The necessity of airport transportation and security screening makes the time savings of a flight less dramatic , especially when services like <URL> offer stops in several neighborhoods . On the flip side , LAX , SFO , and OAK do have relatively convenient bus or rapid transit connections . Comfort . The bus is arguably more comfortable and offers more amenities , but this is offset by its much longer travel time . For example , many buses on this city pair offer in-seat power and WiFi , whereas few of the aircraft do ; however , the need for either is diminished on a 90-minute trip . By the time my bus would trudge through Kettleman City , I could already be checking email in a cafe in Santa Monica . Reliability . LAX and SFO are prone to fog at certain times of the year that is heavy enough to cause flight delays or cancellations . On the other hand , there are so many flights between the two areas ( dozens and dozens of flights if you include nearby airports ) that it is easy to be re-accommodated on a later flight the same day . In short , if you have money to spare , I 'd fly . If you have both time and money , I 'd take the train . The bus is a viable option , but it is a compromise .
The weather in south it is often wet and windy , the north slightly less so , but can get some nasty cold spells , although it should n't be too extreme in July . For going high up in the mountains or travelling in the mid-interior you would need of course to be prepared for much lower temperatures and sometimes extreme weather . The main thing to think about is to have protection against wind and rain . So in order to avoid unpleasant experiences , I would suggest you bring at least the following items : A good wind and rain proof jacket with a hood A warm sweater ( which you can remove when temperatures are higher ) Pants with some wind and rain protection Strong hiking boots . They are essential for hiking as the rough terrain ( sharp rocks , lava ) you might encounter can otherwise quickly destroy your footwear Depending on your comfort level a pair of gloves and a hat might also come in handy if the temperatures get very low . You should be aware that the weather can fluctuate a lot in iceland , even in the same day . Another thing to keep in mind is that if there is direct sunlight and it is not windy it can feel much warmer than you would expect for the temperature . There might very well be times when you could get by with very light clothing .
There will be plenty of buses each day to Bodrum . You will find one , so long as they are n't sold out , although Sunday night is unlikely to be the busiest of travel times to Bodrum . Most will be direct , but there will be some which have another final destination . When you arrive in Istanbul , look around for bus company offices in the district you are staying in . * They are fairly ubiquitous so you are unlikely to have to travel far to find one . Moreover , they are usually clustered around one another , which makes time and price shopping easy . That being said , they usually all leave around the same times and charge similar prices , so it wo n't matter much which company you take , although some are better than others . When you buy your ticket , make sure you find out what time the service bus ( in Turkish , servis ) leaves from the office ( usually an hour or so before the scheduled departure time ) . The service buses will take you to the bus station or another staging point , where you will get on the actual bus . Do n't buy a ticket in Istanbul from a company without a service bus . Depending on the destination , there will be service buses to take you from the bus station to somewhere central once you arrive ( in some Turkish cities , there are no service buses , but this is an exception ) . Turkish buses are comfortable but they do stop every three hours or so , even in the middle of the night , so factor that into your sleep expectations . * If you stay in Taksim , walk down to Gümüşsuyu from Taksim Square to find the offices . If you stay in Sultanahmet , walk west towards Lâleli along Divanyolu . There are offices in Sultanahmet itself , but expect higher prices there .
Driving the road is 830 miles and not that hard except for the narrow roads , blind curves , etc. . There are villages all around the coast of Iceland . <URL> . Now driving in the unpopulated highlands ( the desert part in the middle ) means driving in areas where there are no gas stations , no farms , no towing and you may have to drive across rivers . Here is a <URL> of driving in Iceland . As you can see , at the time I 'm writing , most all interior roads are impassable . The roads do open up in the summer . Travel guides advise taking spare parts and gasoline . One of the highland roads , <URL> , has an interesting name -- it means Bursting-sand , as in the trail that was long and dangerous enough that you 'd ride your horse as fast as possible ( until they burst ) , or else you 'd run out of food or run into dangerous weather along the way .
Look at this : <URL> You could do it in stages . It 's really tough in places but the scenery is fantastic .
First off , it 's never going to be ' cheap ' , unfortunately . There are a few reasons for this . ( * these prices correct as of November 2010 ) The Base If you fly , there 's no way around the fixed fare of USD$ 420 to fly return from Quito or Guayaquil . Then there 's the $ 100 National Park entrance fee . And another $ 10 for taxes . So we 'll ignore all that and just call that the ' base ' , and focus on the rest being cheaper ... A lot seem to focus on the cruise you 'll " need " to do . That 's not always the case . From <URL> : The airport beside Santa Cruz is on a small nearby island in the north side called Baltera , and from here you must get a 50 cent ferry across , then a $ 3 bus down south to the town . Once in town , it 's very easy to set yourself up with a $ 20 private hotel room with A/C and TV , and even Wifi ! Even out here in the middle of the Pacific ocean you remain connected to your Facebook Wall posts ! ( or GlobeNotes obviously ! ) The volcanic island of Isabella is about 2 hours by boat from Santa Cruz , and boats leave daily for only $ 25-30 . Bear in mind that boats only leave Santa Cruz at 2pm , and then leave Isabella only at 6am , so an overnight is required . Many people have told me that , with these two islands ( Isabella alone being 52 % of the total Galapagos landmass ) you can actually see MOST of the wildlife that you see on the far off islands that require cruises , the main exception being red-footed boobies and a few other bird species which are only found on the remote islands . Giant-Tortoise , Sea lions , Penguins , and TONS of Iguana . You name it . . you can see them all within about 15 min boat ride from the coast of either Isabella or Santa Cruz . Score ! It 's worth noting that according to <URL> : If you are planning to visit the Galapagos Islands , Guayaquil is the cheapest place to take a flight from . There are three air carriers that will take you across the Galapagos Islands as well as the Ecuadorean mainland , LAN-ECUADOR <URL> , Aerogal <URL> and TAME [ 5 ] have non stop daily flights , departing from Guayaquil is cheaper than leaving from Quito ( Is closer and most of the Quito flights do make an stop at Guayaquil 's airport for Refueling and picking up passengers . International departure airport tax was just recently increased in Guayaquil and is exactly $ 29.75 ( January 2010 ) . About 15 $ cheaper than Quito airport . Now , once you 're in Quito or Guayaquil , there are two sides to consider with tours . One - the travel agents will often claim the best tours are gone months in advance . Certainly some will be , but I 've NEVER hard of a person disappointed with their tour , no matter when they booked it . However , I have heard of some FANTASTIC deals bought on the ground in Quito . When staying at the <URL> in Quito , the <URL> downstairs was very closely linked with the hostel , offering free city tours and salsa lessons and the like . In addition , they were able to advise people about Galapagos options . I heard of people getting final berths on 5-star boats for the equivalent of paying 2 days for 7 , others getting discounted meals , and they were all booked in Quito or Guayaquil . So in conclusion , it 's hard to say for certain whether things are cheaper on the ground , but from anecdotal opinions , my experience , and the very reason tour companies exist in these cities , is that it is possible to beat prices when on the ground . And of course , this will flex with seasonal trends - more likely to get bargains in low season .
Yes , as a tourist <URL> , but you will also need to get an International Driving Permit ( IDP ) . In India you can get this from your local RTO office , procedures will vary slightly but <URL> .
I just found a Tesla Model S ( " or similar " , which is what they put on every car , but they say they 'll contact you to confirm after you book ) from Sixt searching for a pickup from Frankfurt Airport ( I randomly used 06/20/2016 -06 / 22/2016 ) for a mere US$ 360.71 / day . So they appear to have at least one for rent . Whether it 's available under the exact terms you want is something you might need to contact them about .
<URL> has good information about Mexican auto policies for U.S. drivers on his <URL> . Which company and policy is right for you depends on where you 'll be driving in Mexico . The company I have used before , as recommended by " Mexico " Mike , <URL> is apparently no longer around , as evidenced by the broken link , and the fact that it 's no longer listed on his review page . His page also claims that insurance is not strictly required : Auto insurance is not required to drive in Mexico . If you want to risk having an accident , losing your car , motorcycle or RV and being thrown in jail to save a couple of hundred dollars , that is your right . Personally , I think it is foolish not to buy auto , RV or motorcycle insurance from a Mexican company to drive in Mexico . ... You see the statement that " Mexico requires automobile insurance " on numerous web sites . Honestly , that is not true . I want you to get insurance , but I also want to tell you the truth . Mexico is one of 4 countries in this hemisphere that do not require auto liability insurance nationally . I do know that it 's not required for Mexicans to have auto insurance , but I 've also heard that it is required for foreigners to have auto insurance when registering their vehicle at Mexican customs . I 've always had insurance when I entered , so have never tested this requirement personally . And as cheap as Mexican auto insurance is ( or has been for me , with the company that 's no longer around ) , I think you 'd be foolish not to buy insurance , too . And finally , one thing to be aware of when buying Mexican Auto insurance is that most Mexican auto insurance policies work differently than U.S. insurance policies . Where as part of a U.S. policy , you generally select a deductible , which in turn affects your premium , most Mexican policies simply pay a percentage of damages , up to a maximum . I have seen some Mexican policies that operate more like U.S. policies , but they are hard to find ( I think Nelson used to offer those ) .
end question
start question
How to determine if a hostel room is a walk-through room ?
There 's little you can do , apart from the obvious , depending how thorough you want to be : Check the photos - see if it shows the dorms and the layout Check the reviews , hopefully you left a review about it , and others may have too . Email them - ask the layout of the room and any other suitable questions . Or even call them - a friendly chat will also let you know their level of English , which can be useful to know in advance .
<URL> . If the delay was not caused by " extraordinary circumstances " , you may be entitled to some monetary compensation .
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
Mileage runs are absolutely still possible , it 's just a lot more complicated than it used to be and there 's no easy way to find them . For example , a simple " cents per mile " counter is useless these days , because almost all airlines have switched to awarding different amounts of miles for the same flight depending on the fare class , not to mention the byzantine complexity of different frequent flyer programs counting and awarding miles differently , bonuses for people who already have status , promotions etc etc , and the remaining deals are often found at the intersection of these . Following a specialist forum like <URL> remains your best bet for finding good deals . As an example , " <URL> " fares for any domestic JAL flight in Japan can be had for & yen ; 10,000 a pop ( actual value up to & yen ; 45,000 ) , which is great value in itself , and the cherry on top is that these award full miles on most oneworld frequent flyer programs -- but you ca n't even book Visit Japan fares online , so it 's not even theoretically possible to construct an engine that can find this . What would kill off mileage runs for good is switching to a simple " 1 mile per $ 1 paid " scheme . As discussed in <URL> , airlines all over the world are increasingly moving in this direction ; for example , for years now , Singapore Airlines has only awarded its highest status ( " PPS " ) to people who spend at least S$ 25,000 in cold , hard cash per calendar year . As far as I know , while nobody has gone whole hog yet , I suspect it 's just a matter of time until this happens , and a lot of hotel award programs already operate on this basis . And a personal opinion : I fly enough that doing more of it purely for Internet airline points has always struck me as silly . There are easier ways to both optimize point collection , like choosing your credit cards carefully and maximizing usage , and to get the most out of the points you have collected . There are some absolute gold mines to be found in the award charts .
People in CS can tell on their profile which is the maximum number of nights they want to host , so I think that filtering on that you will be able to identify the kind of hosts that fit your travelling policy . In my personal experience , being member of CS since the beginning of 2009 and living in Pisa ( so , a lot of requests every day ) , people ask for 1 to 3 nights so , yes , it is unusual to stay for more than 3 days . Of course this can depends on the nature of the city : Rome is not visitable in just two days while Pisa is . Moreover , it is not unusual for people to ask to be hosted several times , usually at the beginning and at the end of a trip . That 's what happened with some Americans I hosted when they landed in Pisa and at the end of their travel through Italy before taking the plane back .
Short answer : if both flights have the same flight number , you are probably staying on the same plane . If the flight number changes , you are connecting to a different aircraft . Alternate answer : if the airline told you what city you are changing in and told you what time you land and take off in that city , you are connecting to a different aircraft . In the circumstance where you are staying on the same aircraft , they usually just tell you that your plane will be making a stop , without telling you where or when . This is true 97 % of the time . Rarely , the airline messes around with flight numbers , sometimes to disguise a connection as a direct flight , and this rule does n't hold . See also : <URL>
It would really depend on the hotel , and their terms and conditions . More than likely , you 'll probably be charged for a full night as the hotel will find it hard to sell the room once you all depart .
Recycle the card however you wish . Those things are ephemeral and ca n't be used anyway after you check out and the hotel probably buys them in bulk . And by " ca n't be used " , I mean that your checkout date is encoded onto the card key and the room locks will reject any attempt to open the door past an expired checkout date in the same manner that you ca n't open someone else 's door while you are at the hotel ( or your own effin door half the time while you are still checked in ) . That does not mean these keys ca n't be re-programmed with new room or checkout information . If you pay attention you will see the desk clerk shove the room key into a small box with a numeric key pad and hit a few keys et voilà you have a freshly programmed key ready to use ( again ) . However if the key is physically damaged and wo n't take the reprogramming then the next stop is for it the rubbish bin . Here is a random link that claims to explain how these keys work <URL> This of course raises the question of how easy it is to program a key in order to enter a room that is not yours . The funny thing is that while obvious , this question is actually moot as it is trivial to attack the lock itself with a simple electronic tool that exploits a fundamental design flaw in the how the locks themselves are programmed . Such a tool allows you to open all such locks with ease . I 'll leave tracking down that exploit to the interested reader Hotels are aware of this flaw , but it is going to be a long time before they roll out new door locks for every door that uses this style of pass key . Especially as a lot of hotels ca n't even seem to keep up with regular maintenance of normal in-room equipment .
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
All passengers arriving in the US , regardless of whether they are connecting or not , need to collect their bags and pass through US Customs with them . If you have a connecting flight you can then drop your bags for the onwards flight . This is true both for domestic and international connections . Thus you will definitely have access to your bags in DFW , and will have time to put the duty free into them before re-checking . As you are connecting to an international destination you can also purchase Duty Free once you have cleared security in DFW for your flight to Canada , and then carry it on for your flight .
The Rainbow Bridge is a land border crossing between Canada and the US . There are no facilities to cross it without departing one country and entering the other , so as a result you will need whatever legal status is required to enter the other country - which obviously depends on your citizenship . If you are a Canadian or US citizen then you do not normally need a Visa , but you will require a passport or a passport card . There are exceptions to this if you have a criminal record , etc , but these are the same for any Canadian citizen entering the US or vice versa . If you are a member of a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) for entering the US then you do not normally need a visa ( again , with the usual exceptions around criminal records , etc ) . As you are entering by land you do not need an approved ETSA as you would if entering by air , however you will need to fill in an I94W form . If you are from a country that requires a visa to enter the US , then you will require a visa . Technically if you do not have a visa then the US would most likely " deport " you to the country you arrived from ( ie , back over the bridge to Canada ) - do not think of this as an easy way to get around the requirement if you are just expecting to see the bridge . Doing this will give you a permanent mark against your US immigration record , and make it harder to enter the US in the future ! The main thing you need to keep in mind is that you will be departing from and then re-entering Canada , and thus if you require a visa for entering Canada you should make sure that it will allow you to re-enter . eg , if you are on a single entry visa for Canada , you will technically not be allowed re-enter after visiting the USA .
It 's common in Europe for many cars to have a Diesel or Gasoline version . Usually , but it is not a rule , if the model of the car has a letter D it 's a Diesel car , but this is not a rule . It 's not a rule as well for the car to have a letter on the model name . Usually in Diesel cars you will find some warnings about it . The rental car agent will tell you Next to the gas tank a warning about the type of petrol . The diameter of gasoline hose has a different size of a diesel hose . It will be hard to put the wrong hose inside the tank . The label on the key could have DIESEL written on it ( HERTZ does that )
These are the ones I look at : Official : <URL> <URL> <URL> Unofficial : <URL> Sometimes I just search on google " [ country name ] travel safety " That 's about all I can think of at the moment .
Be careful about trusting the Google Maps walking route , as it wants to send you over Connaught Bridge , which does n't have pedestrian footpaths ! If you use <URL> , you can see the lack of footpaths , but also a handy bridge that Google neglects to show ... Instead I 'd suggest using <URL> to plan the route , which uses <URL> which <URL> . That suggests a sub-2km , 20 minute walk , along the dock side , and over the pedestrian bridge :
Requesting specific criteria for your booked room is indeed a service provided professional travel agents . My employer 's corporate travel agency ( <URL> ) for instance provide a common selection of special requests as shown the in the picture below . Choosing one of these only indicates a preference , not a guarantee , since it 's highly dependent on the yield management system / occupancy at the hotel . ( There may be specific exemptions on whether it 's binding , usually for persons with physical disabilities for instance , who may need an accessible room . ) Providing this kind of choice is considerably less common with many consumer online booking tools . However , in most cases you can phone / contact the hotel following the booking and make the request . Having higher tier status on a hotel chain loyalty programme - if it belongs to one - may also help your chances of having your request fulfilled . That said , I 've mostly found that hotel checkin staff will try to ensure your request is met . Reminding them of it helps .
For virtually all international airports , as long as you are on a single itinerary with your bags booked through , you will stay in the transit area and do not need to clear immigration or Customs . However , if you purchased separate tickets for the two legs , this does not apply : you will need to pass through Immigration ( which may require visas etc ) , collect your bags and check them back in . Unfortunately the United States is , as ever , the odd one out . Transits through the US always require the full Immigration/Customs rigmarole , full stop . In the original poster 's case , a <URL> , Canada from/to the US , they 'll need to pass through at least a " lite " version of Canada Immigration/Customs even if they connect on <URL> , although there are some <URL> for citizens of some countries resident in the US . EDIT : Updated after Doc 's entirely accurate comment .
If you buy/rent a motorbike in Vietnam do they have ones with the abilities to strap on a large backpacking backpack ? A lot of South Asian countries have a collection of powerful pre/post war bikes which carried on production locally after the wars ended . Those were very accomadating bikes . For ex , does this ( googled ) bike 's setup offer you enough storage space ? <URL> If that was n't enough , you can also opt for a motorcyle with a side car : <URL> Such bike mods are pretty common in many South East Asian countries ( Pakistan , India , Nepal , Bangladesh , Thailand , Burma etc ) . Unlike in US , many people over there travel luggage heavy on motorcycles and finding such a bike for rent should n't be a problem in a tourist place . I 've seen just regular motorbikes without any attachments for carrying luggage , but I 'm assuming if two people can ride a bike then there 's no reason a single person could n't travel with a bag right ? Oh yes , there should be no problem at all , from my experience in Asian countries so far . For specific local laws you will have to look up their motorcycle law manual . But as a general observation , it would n't matter .
Upon landing at Abu Dhabi ; you and your luggage will be subject to an x-ray scan . At this point , any suspicious items will be confiscated . Although you are not importing items into the UAE ( as you never enter the country , but are in transit ) nevertheless any goods deemed inappropriate will be seized . You do run the risk of having the item confiscated but nothing more .
Also it is more likely to get a jet bridge when traveling with the local airline . Say you are leaving Stockholm for some obscure Balkan city . You will always get a jet bridge at arlanda so do n't travel with SAS in that case . Use the Balkan airline that is more likey to get to use one of the two jet bridges at it 's hypothetical home airport .
end question
start question
Does Singapore have an electronics district something like Tokyo 's Akihabara ?
Not the same scale , but generally people head to two particular shopping centres : <URL> &amp; <URL> . View inside Sim Lim Square by hippietrail Funan is more upmarket than Sim Lim , which caters more to the general populous . The downside is that there are quite a few ongoing scams at some of the stores in these centres . Some of these are described in the second link . So you have to come prepared , having done your research , and know what you should be expecting when you buy something , how much it should cost and what it should do .
Not sure where you 've been reading that , but I can assure you they 're quite wrong , <URL> sells every make of cheap electronics , so Chinese no-name brands and outright ripoffs are legion . Back in the day when iPhones were the new hotness and were n't officially available in Singapore yet , I remember seeing a plethora of " jPhones " , " iFones " , " iPhons " etc , all thinly disguised Windows or Linux . Some dealers are n't above selling you the real thing and slipping a clone in the bag instead , although the Tourist Board is cracking down on this pretty hard . The general rule of thumb for exploring SLS is that the higher up and deeper down you go , the more esoteric the fare on offer . To generalize , the ground floor is mercenary camera dealers and is best avoided , while the first floor is mostly mainstream audio gear , but the second floor up is all IT . The " inner ring " stores facing the atrium are fairly mainstream ( laptops etc ) , but the windowless " outer ring " stores behind them sell components , used gear , etc. . The <URL> is a good place to start hunting , most shops have their own websites . <URL> is also an excellent forum for more info .
At least on this particular route , facilities - or lack of them for foot-passengers - might be part of the issue . If you check out the Dublin Port area on <URL> or <URL> maps , you 'll notice that of the three ferry terminals - Irish Ferries ( T1 ) , Stena ( T2 ) and P&amp;O ( T3 ) , the only one with passenger facilities right alongside the dock area ( with a bridge that can connect to the ferry ) is Irish Ferries . Stena also have a passenger terminal , but use a shuttle to get foot passengers onto the ship ( <URL> ) . P&amp;O , on the other hand , have minimal facilities ; and only cater to drive-on traffic . There 's probably little demand for foot-traffic on the Dublin/Liverpool route ; at an 8 hours crossing , it 's perhaps the slowest way to get from Dublin to the UK ; more likely a foot-passenger will either get a cheap Ryanair or Aer Lingus flight ; or take the shorter 2hr Dublin/Holyhead route and catch a train from there ( perhaps as part of a <URL> ) or book a <URL> that includes the crossing . Lack of demand likely means there 's little incentive for P&amp;O to add the facilities such as waiting lounge , check-in desks , baggage claim area and so on that would go with accommodating foot passengers , so P&amp;O likely stick to their core market of truck freight and folks who want to bring their car to the other country .
Nizhni Novgorod used to be a military stronghold with a very large production capacity for weapons . This is why it was closed under Soviet rule <URL> so foreigners could not travel there . Also Russian nationals were strongly limited , some of them went there <URL> . Many cities were closed at one point in time and <URL> . Nizhni Novgorod still today has some leftovers of this status and his therefore restricted . You need an invitation from " inside " the city to be allowed to enter from outside the country . It 's a legacy they did not get rid of until today .
I would recommend Ambleside : there 's a frequent bus service ( 555 ) from Windermere ( which it is very close to ) and you can do day-hikes without a bus to Grasmere and quite a few fells ( e.g. Fairfield ) . With short bus trip ( at least in Summer ) you can get up the Langdale valley , and on to Coniston or towards Keswick for day-hikes on some classic hills ( the Old Man of Coniston , Helvellyn , etc. ) You might also consider Keswick itself ( about 30 mins by bus from Penrith station ) which is handy for Blencathra and Skiddaw hikes and Derwent Water .
Here are some techniques . Unfortunately the best ones require either knowledge of Russian ( or a Russian-speaking friend , hostel employee willing to help , etc ) , or skillful use of Google Translate : There are many " Groupon-like " sites in Russia , selling gift cards for various activities . They tend to be city-specific , so I ca n't point you to specific sites . Search for " подарки активный отдых ( city-name ) " or something like that . These sites list a lot of sports activities at reasonable ( local ) prices . Once you find an activity you like , see if you can find the website for the operator of that activity . The trick here is to realize that many small activity operators do n't have real web pages , but instead have pages on the VKontakte ( vk.com ) social network . You usually do n't need an account to access these pages , and they often have prices listed , direct cell phone numbers for the operators , etc. . Try asking people on CouchSurfing in the city you 're interested in to help you find and book the activities . Many Russian cities , even small ones , have active CouchSurfing communities , and there may be people there speaking your language . Just make it very clear that you 're not looking for a place to stay , just some help with the language and perhaps someone to show you around . Ask around in good hostels
There was a kombi from the airport to Swaziland ( Mbabane and Manzini ) for 400 rand
I live in Singapore , and have taken ferries to Batam and Bintan ( another nearby island ) . Let me first clear up the confusion you have acquired by reading that page on Travelfish.org . They mention that the ferry to Indonesia takes " a couple of days " and " is no cheaper than flying . " They are not referring to the ferry to Batam , but rather to the overall journey from Singapore to Java , which as outlined in the article takes three legs , Batam being the first , easiest , and least significant . With that out of the way : these ferries are extremely safe . The terminal and vessels bear some resemblance to a small airport , and none to the sometimes-chaotic " bumboat " ferries that make short trips elsewhere in the region . The ships are proper ships , with proper seating , very seaworthy in appearance , and completely sealed against the weather ( which is often calm anyway ) . The ferry trip is not very long and the crew are professional . Singaporeans in general are not people who tolerate unsafe conditions ( and there are plenty of them taking these ferries , due to work and also the many golf courses in Batam and Bintan ) . Enjoy the trip . If it were n't for the interesting scenes of cargo ships everywhere , you 'd probably find it boring !
An expired residence permit certainly does not allow you to stay or travel in the Schengen area by itself . There are n't any systematic border checks so you would not generally meet any border guard at the border between Norway and Sweden or at the airport when flying back to Sweden . You might therefore easily get away with intra-Schengen travel without proper documentation . But it does not mean it would be legal or that you can not be asked about your status by the police in one country or the other ( even without traveling , incidentally ) . Furthermore , some airlines wo n't let you board without an appropriate visa ( Ryanair is one airline that is notorious for that , see previous questions like <URL> ) and many will at least check your ID so you would expose yourself to some scrutiny in any case . EDIT : Your citizenship makes your situation much easier . You can legally travel , leave and enter the Schengen area as a visitor for up to 90 days and this short-stay does <URL> . Legally speaking , you could also stay in Sweden on that basis alone ( people who can not stay in the Schengen area without a visa might have other ways to get a temporary permit but as far as I know you do n't need one and the advice you received about staying in Sweden would only become relevant if the process took more than three months ) . Do take the expired work permit with you to document the fact that you have n't been overstaying ( your last entry stamp is presumably much older than 90 days ) , show your passport if you are asked for ID ( I would not volunteer a confusing expired document unless it 's needed ) and you should be fine . If you left the Schengen area , I guess you could theoretically be refused entry when coming back but travel within the area should not be a problem at all , even if there is in fact a border check somewhere .
The <URL> " allows citizens of participating countries * to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of 90 days or less " . ( Ireland IS a participating country ) . Each traveller must have authorisation under <URL> . It costs US$ 14 , and the <URL> has all the information you would require . It takes up to 3 days to process , is valid for 2 years , and you need to have it approved before you leave for the US . It 's all done online . ( - and is fairly simple - I 've done it twice before , myself )
To the best of my knowledge this is impossible , or at least impractical . <URL> is intentionally made hard ( cars are taxed much more heavily in Sg ) , and rental agencies will generally not even let you cross the border , much less return cars on the wrong side . Your options are : Return the car right across the border in Johor Bahru , then catch a bus/special taxi to Singapore . This would be a hassle , plus the drive from KL to JB is quite dull ; the scenery is much better in any other direction . Drop off your car in Kuala Lumpur , preferably right at the airport , then fly directly to Singapore Changi . I 'd recommend this , this would be the easiest option and the route is very heavily competed , so tickets are cheap .
This is going to vary strongly from carrier to carrier because as far as I can tell what really matters is how long it 's been since the interiors were refurbished ( a process airlines do one plane model at a time ) and whether the route is considered important by the airline . Sure , you can make some overall opinions about narrowbody ( one aisle ) vs widebody ( two aisles ) but not much else . Power , inflight entertainment , and even just the upholstery are all going to matter as much as layout . If I was travelling alone on AirCanada , I would go with the 330 because two of the three banks of rows have no " middle seat " . If I was travelling as a family of three , that same difference would cause me to reject the 330 . I guess maybe a family of four would prefer the 330 since you could get two rows of two and have two windows and a little family cluster . However I 'm only 5 ' 4 " and my shortness is all in my legs , so a 31 " pitch does n't scare me . It might be more of an issue for you .
I have done some charity work with <URL> , which has similar goals . Send 2nd hand computers to schools in Africa .
As a rule of thumb , if <URL> , its airlines will not accept them either . In the Middle East , this means primarily Iran Air , Kuwait Airways and Saudia are off the table for your itinerary . There are a number of minor carriers in the region that would also refuse you in theory ( MEA , Iraqi , etc ) , but as far as I 'm aware none fly to India , so these would not be an issue in practice . ( To be quite precise , Iraqi actually does fly to India , but it 's banned from the EU ! ) However , note that the five biggest players -- Emirates , Etihad , Qatar , Turkish and Gulf Air -- do accept Israeli citizens for connecting flights .
There are recommended <URL> at Narita . Terminal 1 : Terminal 2 :
There is a priority access lane at the security checkpoints used by UA . DTW &amp; UA are also on the <URL> list . That would be the better bet . Get pre-authorized by TSA and go through even quicker than priority . One thing to think about , however , is that TSA-Pre gets you through security faster and that 's it . Premier Access gets you boarded quicker ( usually ) , or " before the unwashed masses , " as the premier forums all call us regular folk . ( Personal Op-Ed here : I would n't take premier access if you gave it to me , or at least wo n't use it . I do n't like planes , and prefer to sit in the lounge until the absolutely last minute , but that 's just me . )
If you are wealthy , like people of that time who completed the Grand Tour , you may be interested in the offers of <URL> . Most European great cities are visited : London , Paris , Vienna , Prague , Budapest , Venice , Istanbul ...
I always thought it was to avoid breathing too much pollution or avoid catching diseases from other people . In fact it 's the other way around . My Japanese friend always wears one when she has a cold because she does n't want to infect other people !
You do n't indicate what time of day you will arrive and depart , but Incheon Airport offers a series of <URL> of varying lengths and departing at various times of the day . The shorter tours are within the city of Incheon , which is a major city in its own right , whereas the 5-hour tours are of sights and sites in Seoul . While such bus tours are by nature superficial , they will give you a small taste of Korea beyond the airport spa . Because no planning effort is involved beyond purchasing the ticket ( and because they are accustomed to dealing with rushed travelers ) , they are far less stressful than trying to tour an unfamiliar city independently in just an hour or two . 1-hour <URL> in Incheon ; OR <URL> and " motor boat training center " 2-hour Over the <URL> to <URL> or <URL> and <URL> 3-hour <URL> and the Old Incheon Prefecture Government Building 3 1/2 - hour Incheon Bridge to <URL> , the port , and <URL> 5-hour <URL> in Seoul , <URL> , <URL> culture and crafts shopping district , <URL> ; OR <URL> gate and market district and <URL>
While this is likely to be off topic , here 's an answer : <URL> This is THE spot for buying vintage electronics . <URL> While it seems from the outside that Akihabara is only anime and manga everywhere , originally the area was ( and still is ) the best spot for electronics . You want to visit the maze of small shops under the tracks of the Sobu main line . <URL> Keep in mind that there are many other shops around Akihabara , it would be too long to catalog them all , but I encourage you to explore around .
end question
start question
Is it safe to drink tap water in Morocco ?
I would be cautious . So as to stay in peace with <URL> , I would refrain from drinking tap water in Morocco .
Water regulations in Switzerland are very strict and most tap water is of impeccable quality . There is also a law which states that any fountain , which does n't have regulated drinking water , has to be declared as such , so if you see a fountain with no sign on a village square , it 's very likely safe to be drunk . This is most likely the reason why there is a sign at those huts . The situation in mountain huts is a bit different . They are very rarely connected to any piping and the water most often comes from a local spring . In some cases , especially in very high altitude locations and in winter , there might not be any source available , and there is places where drinking water has to be brought up ( mostly where cable cars are available ) . So most probably the water comes directly from a fresh water spring ( a big percentage of Swiss water reaches the taps unfiltered from some spring ) . Probably the quality is not monitored however as it would be with public tap water , so it can get tainted ( after a lot of rain ) , or be from a non clean spring . Note that if it 's melting water ( from glaciers or snow ) , then it will generally also be unsafe . Providing clean water at such remote places often comes with a lot of expenses for the owner . There is certain places where restaurant owners at such places will charge you very high prices if you order tap water at the restaurant . So , you will probably be safe drinking the water . However , there is a small chance that the water might be tainted and unsafe . The only one who will be able to tell you is probably the owner . Note , if there are locals around , you can ask them and they might know of alternative source to fill up your water bottles . As a kid , ( I grew up in the Swiss Alps ) , we always knew of a couple of springs near my grandparents chalet where it would be safe to drink from .
I you see the trend of tourist coming to Nepal by land in 2013 . It shows more than 200000 tourist come from land and obviously from India . There are different route for coming to the border of Nepal , Some people also take train also . There are different entering route from Delhi , some famous are Bhairahawa , Birgunj , Mahendranagar . But connecting point is Narayangarh . Rode upto Narayangarh is better safe and construction is also going for widen up . But rode from Narayangarh-Muglin-Kathmandu looks danger as Tom said above specially in Rainy season .
According to <URL> , yes : Despite the rigid separation between men and women on the ski lifts , and often on the courses themselves , visitors revealed that on the mountain slopes , in the hotels and inns , one could drink alcohol , hear female singles and mingle freely until all hours of the night . " Just like many other things in Iran , everyone simply turned a blind eye , " Dome explained . As a result , the resorts are an ideal love nest for many Iranian couples .
According to the <URL> : The tap water in Albania may cause illness - you should drink only bottled water .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
It depends primarily on the airline policy . The only airline I believe is Royal Brunei Airlines which allows consumption of personal alcohol on-board because it does not serve any on the aircraft . Any airline which serves alcohol on-board typically does not allow consumption of personal alcohol . I suspect the reason for this is to maintain decorum during the flight and prevent people from drinking too much which would compromise the safety of other passengers including the intoxicated person in tense situations . As mentioned in the question , the <URL> prohibits alcohol which is not served by the certificate holder operating the aircraft . So , this rules out the United States . Most airlines do n't provide any specific information about it in their General Conditions of International Carriage for Passenger and Baggage . If you want to look up for a specific airline , the Conduct Aboard the Aircraft ( Article 11,12 or 15 typically ) can provide information regarding the same . One example we can talk about is airlines which <URL> on their flights : <URL> does not allow it in any form Saudi Arabian Airlines does not serve or permit passengers to carry or drink alcoholic beverages on its flights . <URL> does n't serve alcohol but allows you to carry some and consume on board ( does not specify domestic or international waters ) . It also does not mention anything regarding this in their <URL> . <URL> does not allow it in any form You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free or otherwise obtained ) Another example we must talk about is European airlines which do serve alcohol : <URL> serves alcohol but does not allow passengers to consume their own alcohol . It is forbidden to consume any alcohol which you may have personally brought on board . <URL> also serves alcohol but <URL> . Passengers are not allowed to consume the alcoholic beverages they bring on board during the flight , including duty-free items purchased at the airport or on the plane . <URL> follows the same policy as the others 15.4 The Carrier may limit or prohibit the consumption of alcohol on board the aircraft . Consumption of any alcoholic beverages carried into the aircraft by Passengers or consumption of any duty free product bought on board the aircraft is prohibited . So does <URL> For safety reasons , consumption of alcohol by passengers is restricted to alcohol served by us , with the result that alcohol purchased by passengers ( whether as duty free purchases at airports or aboard aircraft or other purchases ) can not be consumed aboard our aircraft . Now , airlines in Asia which also serve alcohol : <URL> does n't say it specifically but it implies that personal alcohol consumption is not allowed Passengers are also permitted to consume their own snacks and non-alcoholic drinks on board . <URL> says it quite specifically Except for the alcoholic drinks provided by CEAIR flights , Passengers shall not have any other alcoholic drinks on board the aircraft . <URL> does not either Drinking of any alcoholic drinks on board an aircraft is permitted only in amounts offered by the airline . <URL> has the same policy as the others You are not allowed to consume alcohol aboard an aircraft ( whether purchased as duty free from us or someone else or otherwise obtained ) unless it has been served to you by us . We have the right , at any time and for any reason , to refuse to serve you alcohol or to withdraw alcohol which has been served to you .
Not really . Indonesian traffic cops in general and Balinese traffic cops in particular love <URL> and not having an IDP means an " instant fine " for you . Also note that you must have a motorcycle license in your home country and an IDP that covers this , an ordinary car license wo n't do . Then again , given that you can usually get away for Rp 50,000 ( ~ US$ 5 ) , if you 're only there for a short time you can do the math to figure out which is cheaper . Rental agencies do not care either way , although any insurance you may have may be invalidated if you do n't have a valid IDP . ( And no , I would n't usually recommend breaking the law , but if you 're a licensed driver with a license in English , this silly insistence on expensive additional pieces of paper is not much short of a scam in itself . )
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
I have seen these toilets in Indonesia a lot ( in hotels , Malls ... etc ) . This type of toilet comes in different styles . Some have a very forceful tap that can literally make a second hole in your butt or make the one you have wider ! These types do not need any hands to help with the cleaning as the forceful stream will clean everything . Some will be as you described very weak stream so it needs some help from your ( non-dominant ) hand to finish the job . Always turn the tap slowly to avoid having the forceful stream make a mess of things , and never turn it on while standing and looking at the toilet so it wo n't hit your face ! I tried that once out of curiosity , and it 's not fun !!! To use the tap to clean after you 're done with your pooping , move forward a little so there will be enough space to slip your hand from the back and wash your butt . If you have small body and/or the toilet seat is big enough you can move back and slip your hand from the front . The front method can be a little bothering for males . I do n't think you can lean to one side , as doing that will move your butt away from the water stream and will make a hard job more difficult .
There are two types of travel adapter plugs commonly used : <URL> . These just convert the physical plug into one of a different shape , but do not perform any voltage conversion . It is perfectly fine and common to use one with a power strip ( with surge protector ) . As Aganju points out , you should be careful not to overload any circuits , as a power strip allows you to plug multiple devices into a single outlet . Also , be sure to check that the surge protector is rated to handle the voltage for your destination 's electrical system . Some models are universal , but others may be 110V only and should n't be used in 220-240V electrical systems ; check the markings on the device first . <URL> / transformers . These are somewhat heavy transformers , much larger than a plug adapter , that increase or decrease the voltage of the power to allow it to be used with devices expecting a different voltage than the one locally available . Since many common electronic items carried by travelers are " dual-voltage " or " universal voltage " ( they are marked as accepting a wide range of voltages , such as 100-240V ) , these are n't as common anymore and may be unnecessary , but are useful if you must travel with a non-universal device . They often include a plug adapter as part of their design . Transformers are marked with a maximum wattage that they are capable of handling . Many transformers , especially smaller and cheaper ones , may only handle a load of up to a few hundred watts . It is easy to exceed this limit either with a single high-power device ( such as a hair dryer ) , or a number of lower-power devices . A power strip makes it much easier to overload the transformer . EDIT : <URL> from someone describing how using a surge protector on the 110V side of a step-down transformer damaged the surge protector and created a safety hazard . Some of this depends on the type of transformer involved , but it 's a good way to try to destroy your surge protector if nothing else . In short : I would n't use a surge protector on the other side of a transformer . A power strip that you are sure has no surge protection would n't have this problem , though just avoiding such setups all together is probably safest . Personally , I have n't traveled with a voltage converter ( carrying just plug adapters ) in years , as I 've arranged all the electrical devices I take with me to be universal voltage . Converters are heavy and bulky and I prefer to avoid them . Laptops , cell phone chargers , tablets , cameras , etc. . . are typically universal , though it 's important to check your devices . Some travelers may carry a hairdryer or curling iron , which might not be universal voltage . It is possible to buy special travel models ( e.g. . <URL> in the US , or a travel supply vendor wherever you are ) instead , especially as you 'd otherwise need a high-wattage transformer to handle a hairdryer . Or obtain such items in your destination if necessary .
Sorry for answering my own question , but it looks like all flights currently go through larger Yemeni cities , and traveling by boat is likely to be just as dangerous due to Somali pirates . From the <URL> : There is a high risk of piracy in the coastal areas of Yemen . There have been attacks by pirates against all forms of shipping in and around Yemen 's waters and the Gulf of Aden . Pirates have been using motherships to attack shipping further than 1,000 nautical miles ( 1,850 km ) from the coast of Somalia . All forms of shipping are attractive targets for Somali pirates , including commercial vessels , pleasure craft ( yachts etc ) and luxury cruise liners ... maintain a high level of vigilance and to exercise extreme caution when anywhere near these waters . According to the International Maritime Bureau 's ( IMB ) Piracy Reporting Centre ( PRC ) , there were 217 attempted attacks of piracy with 47 vessels hijacked and 867 crewmembers taken hostage in the Gulf of Aden and off the east coast of Somalia in 2009 .
As a french hiker often going camping , here is what I know . In France , camping is regulated by the law named " Camping , aménagement des parcs résidentiels de loisirs , implantation des habitations légères de loisirs et installation des résidences mobiles de loisirs et des caravanes " from the " décret n ° 2015-1783 du 28 décembre 2015 relatif à la partie réglementaire du livre Ier du code de l'urbanisme et à la modernisation du contenu du plan local d'urbanisme " . Here is a link summarizing what you can / can not do : <URL> ( in French , but you can translate ) . This law makes the difference between a " bivouac " and " wild camping " . " Bivouac " is the term employed to nominated hikers that put a small tent for the night , as they may be too far from civilization . " Wild camping " however is more associated with people owning cars and putting a tent closer to the city , avoid hotel costs . Camping is especially forbidden in some protected areas such as in some National Parks , but each park has its own regulation . If you go to the Pyrénées , there are the National N03 , Regional park R43 and R46 ( see the map in the previous link ) . In N03 , " wild camping " is forbidden , and " bivouac " is authorized between 7PM to 9AM the next day , if you are at more than one hour walk to the park limits , or road access . In R43 ( Parc naturel régional des Pyrénées catalanes ) , " wild camping " is forbidden , but " bivouac " is okay close to the refuges or along the GRs ( the hiking ways ) . In R46 ( Parc naturel régional des Pyrénées ariégeoises ) , there are no specific legislation , so you have to follow the national regulation . It is in general forbidden close to the roads , and you should know that any bit of land belongs to someone . The law says that you need the approval of the owner to put your tent there , who may live miles away . That is the official legislation , but as a camper myself , I can tell you that no one will put you in jail for putting a tent for the night in a forest , just avoid the places where it is explicitly written on a sign . However , you should not leave any trace of your camp when you leave , so remember to take your garbage with you , and organize yourself for the " restrooms " . Have a safe trip !
These are the <URL> for Cambridge City , population circa 122,000 : I admit I nearly choked on my tea on seeing this question 's title but also that a comparison with Cambridge MA is slightly unfavourable -- though I suspect that adjustment for differences in classification and reporting would swing that around significantly . I have not been to Cambridge in a very long time -- and a good part of that is because my first impression was that it was exceedingly boring . Packed full of delightful scenery but otherwise DEAD ( admittedly in the days when early closing was commonplace - and my visit was on a Wednesday afternoon ! ) To query its safety would never have entered my head , so the fact the question has been asked may be a sign that Cambridge UK is much safer than you are used to . <URL> claims to be the largest taxi company in the city of Cambridge . Their web site has a calculator and from the Railway Station to a Travelodge in Orchard Park it estimates as # 10.20 ( 3.6 miles ) . Google has the travel time as about 15 minutes , so about # 20 , including a tip , for 1/2 hr .
Virtually all municipal water systems in the United States provide clean and safe drinking water . Water supplies are regulated by the government and must be tested regularly . Water safety problems are generally well publicized , often national news if they are significant , and emergency notices are issued if a rare temporary situation , such as a water main break , results in unsafe water . Note that the situation may be different for well water in remote areas , but if you 're in such a place , chances are good you 're talking to the owner of the well , who can advise you . Specifically at Yale , you might see <URL> from the Yale Daily News about New Haven tap water . You may read the most recent <URL> from the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority for up-to-date information . The local water meets all regulatory standards . Some old buildings may have old pipes that can impart an off taste or even leach <URL> into the water . While it may be worth testing for lead someplace where small children will be living for years , I would n't be concerned about an adult taking a five week course . You should also <URL> . If you do n't like the taste of your water , you could consider investing in a <URL> , which you can keep in a refrigerator to ensure you have a supply of cold drinking water . I ca n't say whether you 'll like that taste better , but it should be at least a bit different after passing through the filter . Bottled water is another choice , but note that most bottled water is simply US tap water , and that the legal requirements for bottled water are actually <URL> than the ones for tap water . You can also fill up a water bottle at drinking fountains or <URL> on campus .
The United Arab Emirates ( Dubai ) does not care about your religion : it 's not even asked on your landing card , because there is n't one ! I 've visited/passed through a dozen times and never been asked , and neither have I ever heard of anybody being asked . The only country in the region that I 'm aware of asking for your religion is Saudi Arabia , where you need to fill this out on the visa application form . I 've heard advice that entering either of " Atheist " or " Jewish " will cause your application to get extra scrutiny , I 'm again not aware of any rejections due to this -- and how would you prove that it 's this that caused the rejection anyway ? Last but not least , it 's not atheism that 's a sin in Islam , but <URL> : the act of converting away from Islam to anything else , be it Christianity , atheism or Pastafarianism . If you were never a Muslim in the first place , as far as a true believer is concerned you may be an idolatrous heathen or a godless fool , but you 've committed no sin .
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
I would be cautious . So as to stay in peace with <URL> , I would refrain from drinking tap water in Morocco .
This is actually not the case and while no site states that tours run year round you could find references on <URL> where a user documents his trip to Sahara in June and another referring to a similar tour in September . And while tours might be suggested for November through February because the temperatures in the winter might be more comfortable for people from northerly climates it does n't mean that people stop living in the desert and thus tours are n't likely to stop . Update Specific comments by various users from <URL> about Sahara Trip in June . And just to put another nail in that coffin <URL>
On top of what has been written by @toy and @user34936 , which I can support 100 % , I would like to give you the following advice : When traveling to remoter areas in Asia ( I would count Laos into that ) , and specially if you do not do so frequently ( several times a year ) , you are risking to get Diarrhea as a minimum and intestinal parasites as a worst case scenario where you run risk of severe organ damage in the long run . While the risk is , as mentioned , highest in India , there are 2 levels of caution that go along with the amount of inconvenience you have to face to execute them : Easiest level , should prevail in most developing countries in Asia , can be ignored in Japan , mostly also in Hong Kong &amp; Singapore for example : Do not drink Tap water Do not rinse your mouth with tap water after brushing your teeth ( sounds stupid , but you always ingest some of it , and if you follow step 1 , this is a direct consequence . That 's why a lot of hotels in Asia have small bottles of water now standing next to the sink instead of in the room ) Do not eat cold street food , specially fruits , ice cream etc. . Next level , should be observed in any remote , rural area of the developing countries outside of international hotel chains and in almost all of India : Do not eat any uncooked food , such as salads Do not eat unpeeled fruits and do never eat water melons . They are sometimes injected with water to make them heavier . Do not eat anything that has to have a consistent cooling chain without unfreezing such as ice cream , imported fish etc. . Basically do not eat anything that is not served by established restaurants or hotels that you would find in a tourist guide . be very careful with ice cubes . Rather drink what has been cooled in a closed container such as cans &amp; bottles than ice cubes . The issue here is that you have to decide how much you want to reduce your flexibility in the country to avoid a light diarrhea and how much experience you have when traveling across the world in remote places . You body will build up resistance against a lot of bacteria types if ingested in small quantities . However I know a person who lived in China and other places such as Hong Kong for all their life who got a parasite in India that caused a almost 100 % kidney failure and repeated operations over the following years . Also : While asking for bottled water might become quickly expensive since the hotels try to sell you Perrier etc , asking specifically for local bottled water is often a safe but very cheap alternative . Also consider that Diarrhea as such might not bother you too much , but dehydration and other consequences of that issue might cause more trouble that might severely disrupt the trip for you .
end question
start question
Is Amsterdam a dog friendly city ?
By default , if you do n't see a ' no dog ' sticker , your dog will be allowed into restaurants . Dogs are not allowed in any of the major museums or churches but are allowed pretty much everywhere else . ( <URL> ) . From same source : Dogs of any size are allowed on the public transportation system including trams , metro , busses and trains . Dogs are allowed for free on all types of transportation except for trains which charge a 3 euro dog day ticket fee . You may also be interested in : <URL> .
It 's the two-letters code of the state . MO is Missouri . <URL> You can learn them with this <URL> or <URL> .
There is a daily train leaving Amsterdam at 20:31 and arriving in Munich at 7:10 the following day . The trains leaves Munich at 22:47 each evening and arrives in Amsterdam at 8:56 . The price very much depends on when you travel , when you book and how much comfort you want to have . <URL> . From Munich you can take a local train to Garmisch-Partenkirchen , at the foot of the Zugspitze . It 's a 90 minutes ride . <URL> . The train continues to Innsbruck . You can consider that as well . In this case , take an accomadation in Innsbruck . There is a small ski resort , the Patscherkofel , accessible from the city center by funicular and cable car . If that 's not enough , you have some nice resorts which can easily be reached by a bus shuttle from Innsbruck , such as the Stubaier Gletscher , Schlick 2000 or Axamer Lizum . This way you can spend a nice skiing weekend without having to renounce to the amenities of a city . The train also calls at Wörgl , from where you have a very quick access to the very nice " Wilder Kaiser " resort . In case you do n't like to take the train , flying from Amsterdam into Munich will probably not ruin you . But it 's much less convenient . From Munich airport to Garmisch-Partenkirchen is more than 2h30 and you have the usual airport hassle . And probably less convenient schedules . The night train allows you to get the most out of your scarce time . If you are francophile , you can consider a flight to Geneva . With Easyjet you will find decent prices . From the Geneva airport you have bus shuttles to plenty of French and Swiss resorts . This will take you 1h30 to 2h00 , depending on the destination . Schedules are available on the homepage of Geneva 's airport . If " cheapness " is an important criterion , prefer France over Switzerland . I would also try to contact local tour operators and travel agencies . Chances are high that they have ready made packages just for short ski trips . Eventually , that might be the most convenient option . You just have to go to the office and book it . They take care of the logistics . It is not necessarily more expensive than if you try to brew something by yourself .
Yeah , the commute looks ok to me . The <URL> gives travel times of about 19-23 minutes from Sundbyberg . I used Sundbyberg centrum and Isafjordsgatan 39 ( where <URL> is located , with other universities like <URL> very close by ) . Try it for yourself using the exact address of your campus . In fact , we 're talking of a distance of about 6 kilometers , so your best bet -- at least when it 's warm outside -- may well be bicycle . ( Most likely it 's less than 6 km by bike , as I imagine you can cut through the forests/fields near Ursvik . ) If you 're going to be studying there for a while , buying a cheap bike makes sense .
Your whole trip is covered by the Eurail pass , but you should pay for reservations . If you go to the website for Eurail pass , there is a <URL> . For the Eurostar from London to Paris , you must reserve a seat . In 2nd class , it is worth 89 euros . On the <URL> , it says that CityNightLine trains are accessible , but you must reserve a seat/berth . For example , a berth in 2nd class with a Global Eurail pass costs 27.5 euros .
LAZ have an online reservation system <URL> , however it seems to be unavailable for that particular location . However a different site called <URL> lists their price list : Parkopedia shows numerous alternative parking spots in that area , so you should n't have an issue finding a spot :
Basically , everything is now an " OV-chipkaart " . There are three main types of cards , all with an RFID chip in it : personal ( for people with a discount card , yearly rail card and the like ) , " anonymous " ( for infrequent use ) and disposable ( for punctual use ) . Depending on the card , you can load credit and travel using a pay-as-you-go system or directly load a product like a single trip or a day pass that will be valid on a specific trip or specific network . This system is used by the national train company ( NS ) , municipal transit companies like GVB , HTM ( the Hague ) and RET ( Rotterdam ) , by private train operators like Arriva or Veolia and by other bus companies like Connexxion or Veolia ( those two are now part of the same group but not fully merged as far as I know ) . With NS , paper tickets have been replaced by single-use chip cards ( with a EUR 1 surcharge over regular fares ) . Those do have an RFID chip too but can not be used for pay-as-you-go on other companies ' networks . The GVB day card is also such a chip card . It 's only valid on the GVB network ( metro , bus , tramway , and ferries in Amsterdam ) but , just like the single trip NS card , it is technically a disposable OV-chipkaart . Whatever you do , you are supposed to check in and out using an OV-chipkaart card every time you use public transport ( incidentally , with day cards , you could imagine the card would be valid nonetheless but I have been told several time that you really need to check in and out ... ) . Even one-hour bus tickets everywhere in the country are actually chip cards ( which the driver will often " check in " for you if you look like a tourist ) . So you have to use some sort of RFID card in any case and , as a visitor , your choice is between using a disposable card for each trip/network or an anonymous chip card for pay-as-you-go on several networks . If you choose to use disposable NS tickets and a GVB day card , you do n't need to get anything else . But if you do get an anonymous OV-chipkaart and load it with enough credit to travel on the train , you might just as well use it on the Amsterdam local transit network and you would n't need the GVB card . It 's up to you . In terms of costs , it 's going to depend on exactly where you want to go . With NS , you have to pay some surcharge anyway and the biggest problem is that you need to have at least EUR 20.00 on the card when checking in for pay-as-you-go . So for a short trip like Amsterdam CS-Schiphol ( where the regular fare is EUR 4.00 ) , you would have at least EUR 16.00 tied into the card when arriving at the airport , which is annoying . If you do n't travel a lot in the city , paying single trips with an anonymous chip card would probably be cheaper than a multi-day card ( you pay per kilometer ) but not by much . The main drawback is that the anonymous non-disposable chip card must be purchased for EUR 7.50 ( before loading any credit on it ) and you would then need to deal with the whole pay-as-you-go system . One variant would be to buy an anonymous card , load it with EUR 20 and use that for the way from Schiphol to the center and then in the city . After four days , you would have used most of your credit and probably spent less on the GVB network than the price of a GVB multi-day card ( at least if you do n't travel all day ) . Then you could buy a disposable NS ticket for EUR 5.50 ( that 's EUR 4.00 with disposable card surcharge and credit card fee ) for the transfer to the airport to avoid loading too much credit on your anonymous chip card at the end of the trip . But at the end of the day , no matter what you do , the total cost will be over EUR 30 and the difference between anonymous chip card and GVB day card is not going to be large . What you must definitely avoid is paying the trip to the airport with pay-as-you-go ( except if you intend to reuse the card for a future trip or intend to give it away to someone else who can use the credit ) . The easiest solution is therefore probably to buy single-use train tickets from the NS machines ( for transfer to and from the airport ) and then use a GVB multi-day card for all your journeys within the city . Assuming two ~ 3 km trips in the city a day ( to fix ideas that 's approximately the distance between the Central train station and the Museumplein ) , the costs would be : Single-use NS tickets and GVB day card : EUR 5.50 for each train trip + EUR 21.00 for the GVB card . Total : EUR 32.00 Anonymous chip card and single-use ticket for the return to Schiphol : EUR 7.50 + EUR 0.50 + EUR 4.00 for the way from the airport to the city center + EUR 11.00 for tram/bus + EUR 5.00 tied into the card at the end + EUR 5.50 for the transfer to the airport . Total : EUR 33.50 . Anonymous chip card only : EUR 7.50 + EUR 0.50 + EUR 8.00 for the train + EUR 11 for tram/bus journeys + EUR 16 EUR tied into the card at the end . Total : EUR 43.00 Disposable cards all the way ( buying train tickets with credit card and bus tickets with cash each time you step into a bus or tram ) : EUR 5.50 for each train
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
Provided you would like to go to the Hardrock Cafe in Amsterdam : take the train from Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam Central station ( 15 minutes or so ; you can plan details on <URL> ) . From Amsterdam Central Station take a tram number 1 , 2 or 5 and get out on <URL> ( again , some 15 minutes ) . <URL> ( 5 minutes or less )
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
There are a lot of options . It really depends on your preference , but my list of cities you can always visit no matter what season : Amsterdam ( the Netherlands ) Maastricht ( the Netherlands ) Delft ( the Netherlands ) Brugge ( Bruges ) ( Belgium ) Monschau ( Germany ) Edinburgh ( UK ) Grenada ( Spain ) Barcelona ( Spain ) Funchal ( Portugal )
Your question reminds me of a quote from a quantum mechanics teacher I once had : Only after teaching a subject twice , one may begin to understand it . Apart from hosting the occasional Couchsurfer , I have no experience myself in being a tourist guide . But I guess : to become a better tourist guide , be a tourist guide . I think in many places , tourist guides are often student jobs , relying not ( only ) on professionals but also a lot of amateurs . Therefore , if you 're genuinely interested in becoming a better tourist guide , you could apply to be one in your own city or region , maybe during the summer months ( or weeks ) . I 'd expect that this means following a few classes and then heading out in the city centre . You 'll tell the same story on every trip but might get different questions on every trip , that you would need to figure out . That 's probably a highly effective way to learn the touristic information for your city or region .
Sloterdijk was a village out of Amsterdam but has now been gulped up by the city and is part of it . Just like the villages around London are part of Greater London . It is within the city bus system area and on those buses you can use the travel passes for the city . And depending on where you want to be in Amsterdam , the bus might well be faster than going by train and take a bus from the Central station . The <URL> will tell you door to door , your hotel to wherever you want to go , how to get there . You can even set it to ' no train ' to get that out of the results . When you arrive you can ask whether there still is a bus pass that allows travel on the NS trains ( national railways ) within the Amsterdam area . I will look further and update if I do find one . An OV chip seems a good investment but you need to realize that at the start of any train travel you need to have $ 20 on it , even for just a $ 2.20 ' within the city ' run . And it has to be a different OV chip for each of you , so as a couple you can be left with about $ 35 on your cards . Officially you can get a refund for that money , but it takes time and effort and you will always lose some money . The Amsterdam tourist information office site has a <URL> and non of them includes the train within Amsterdam , apart from the ' Schiphol return ' which you already found . An <URL> mentions renting a bicycle , which might suit you . It is cheaper than three bus or tram tickets per day , but it does include some effort . Riding is safe and helmets are not used by those using utility bikes as rentals mostly are . Dutch cyclist do only use helmets when going high speed or off road , as a rule , that means that if you want to rent a bike and peddle on the bike lanes , you can do so without helmets , which makes bike rental much easier for tourists . Helmets are not only not mandatory , they are also not often used .
The big question mark is how well your dog travels . We 've got a dog that will just curl up and sleep for as long as we choose to travel - she 's done 14 hour non-stop trips with no issues - but I also know dogs that whine incessantly without regular ( three hourly or so ) stops to relieve themselves and/or have a walk around . This will significantly affect travel time and hence where you 'll be able to reach within a given time period . Other than that , you 'll need to confirm that anywhere you 're looking to stay is pet-friendly . This may not be as big an issue in the US , but in Australia options are more limited and require researching and booking ahead . If you 're going to go sightseeing the same applies - is the attraction dog friendly ? What will you do with your dog while you 're visiting the attraction ? Leaving your dog in the car can be ok , but it really depends on the dog and also the parking situation ( under cover is a minimum ) and the weather ( never do it on a hot day ) . The minimum of travel equipment that we 've found is : Water bowl and water . You can get a water bottle with a combined drinking tray that is useful for travelling . Food bowl and food . Something for your dog to sleep on/in , whether it 's a blanket or a bed . Ideally it 's something familiar to the dog and that they 're accustomed to sleeping in . Travel harness . This depends on the dog but our 's is known to try to hop into the driver 's lap - very bad . It also reduces the chance of the dog getting injured if an accident happens . The usual leash and poo bags for bathroom stops .
The 35 euro fares are discounted advertised fares that are hard to obtain . Trains between Amsterdam and Paris are more expensive , especially if you have to travel on short notice . A good alternative ( especially if you have time ) is to take the train from Amsterdam to Antwerp , then change trains to the train from Antwerp to Lille . From Lille on you can travel to almost anywhere in France . You really need to ask for this connection , because the railways try to sell as many high speed tickets as possible , just to pay of their high speed investment . From Lille on there are cheaper high speed train connection than the international connections . You can also choose to go for a so called TER connection . If you want to go to Paris for example , you can take the high speed link ( approx . 1 hour ) or you could choose to go take the " slow link " to Maubeuge and switch trains there to Paris ( approx . 4 hours ) .
Friends of friends stayed on Banda island this year , so it 's still up and running . I was told they liked it . Did you consider going up to Jinja ? I personally like Eden Rock ; it 's affordable and right next to the party venue that is Nile River Explorers , meaning you can choose to party and choose to take it easy without having to go far . Alternatively , I hear good things about the <URL> as well , which is on an island .
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
No . I am also registered with Uber in London and have successfully used it in Amsterdam , Cape Town , and other cities . It 's the same account , same process . Of course , you 'll be billed in local currency - and do n't forget you may have to pay roaming data fees on your phone contract .
Yes you could I guess but I am not sure I would do it , for two reasons : Timing I made a quick ideal case scenario : <URL> <URL> your time in the city 30min back to the airport by train 1h again at the airport 30min last call for boarding before departure time which leaves you with ca. 2h by my calculations to see the city . However that was a best-case scenario and your calculation could go wrong at any time above : delays of your incoming flight queues at immigration and/or security questions at immigration once the tracks where blocked on my train into the city and I waited 30min on the train stopped at a station before resorting to alternative means get lost in Frankfurt I am a fairly risk-averse person and honestly would not do it unless I had an important errand to run and could fall back on taking a taxi back in case , but this is up for your judgement . If you do go , plan ahead every detail , i.e. what terminal you arrive , how to get into town , where to get off , where to walk around , when and how to get back , ... Attractiveness Personally I do n't find Frankfurt that attractive for a visit and if I had a friend come to Germany and could show them only one place , it would be among the last to come to my mind , but hey , you might have only this chance to see Germany and it is better than nothing . Have a look at <URL> beforehand and plan how to get around . Alternatively , sometimes ( and only sometimes ) you get pretty good views of the " skyline " at take-off and landing , <URL> .
Daytime , there are two very good options : <URL> bus 615 is easy and affordable . The trip to central railway station costs 5 $ and takes some 35 mins . The bus runs every 10-20 minutes between 06:30 and 00:30 on weekdays ( Sat 07:00 -1:00 , Sun 06:05 -00:30 ) . ( From city to airport , first departure is 05:10 and last 22:45 . ) At the airport it leaves from T1 ( platform 2 ) stopping at T2 ( platform 21 ) too , and in city centre from platform 3 on <URL> . The fare covers transfer to other HSL services -- buses , trams , metro , <URL> ferry -- within 80 mins . Check <URL> or the <URL> for more info . The <URL> ( <URL> ) takes you a bit faster ( average time 30 mins according to the company ) from airport to central railway station . The fare is 6.30 $ , and it runs ( mostly ) every 20 minutes , between 05:45 and 01:10 daily . ( From city to airport between 05:00 and 24:00 ) . This bus leaves from T2 ( platform 10 ) and stops at T1 ( platform 1 ) ; in city centre , it leaves from <URL> , platform 30 , on the other side of the central railway station . The Finnair bus also provides free WiFi ( details provided on the information display on the bus ) , which can be handy for travelers . Late at night &amp; early in the morning ( i.e. , when 615 is not running ) , HSL bus <URL> is your friend . It runs every half hour mostly , with last departure from airport at 03:55 and from city at 03:10 ( Fri &amp; Sat nights 03:40 ) . But first departure is at 05:00 ( from city 04:10 ) , so essentially the whole night is covered , all week ! Night fare ( charged between 02:00 -04:30 ) is 7 $ . The 620 departs from the exact same platforms as 615 , and estimated travel time is 40-45 minutes . ( The 620 also has departures during daytime ; the main difference compared to 615 is slightly longer travel time . ) A taxi is always a convenient option , of course , but it 's far from cheap ( around 35-40 $ ) . There are some fixed rate / shared taxi services too that are slightly cheaper ( e.g. <URL> , " from 19.50 $ " ) . Edit : updated for 2015 . Note that slightly different 615 and 620 timetables may apply in the middle of the summer . Check the <URL> to make sure , as it always has up-to-date info on the HSL services . Rail connection starting 1 July 2015 The new <URL> opens this summer , bringing a rail connection between the airport and central Helsinki . It wo n't really be faster than the current buses , but it 's probably easier , more straightforward for the occasional visitor . As you can see in the schematic map below , you can take either I train or P train no matter which way you 're going . To optimise travel time ( save 5 minutes ) , choose I train from Helsinki and P train from airport . Both trains will run every 10 minutes in the daytime . Travel times : Helsinki city to airport : I train 27 minutes ; P train 32 minutes Airport to Helsinki city : P train 27 minutes ; I train 32 minutes ( NB : at least some bus of the existing bus lines will remain in operation and may be valid options even after the Ring Line opens . I 'll update this with more details later . )
end question
start question
Is it cheaper to get to Cuba from Miami or Cancún ?
Be aware that for the most part , you ca n't go from the US to Cuba , unless specifically authorized by the government . Most people go to Canada or Mexico and fly from there . From Wikitravel : Jose Martí International Airport outside Havana is the main gateway and is served by major airlines from points in Canada , Mexico , and Europe . There are also regional flights from other Caribbean islands . Cuba 's national carrier is Cubana de Aviacion , connecting the island to a handful of destinations in Mexico , South and Central America , Canada and Europe . Flights from Miami to Cuba are offered to authorized American passengers . Try calling Cuba Travel Services ( CTS Charters ) . They offer daily non-stop flights between Los Angeles and Miami to Cuba . There are also regular holiday charter flights to resorts such as Varadero , and these can sometimes be less expensive than those going to Havana . Please note that if you have purchased a oneworld ticket then further flights into America within that year will be disallowed through American Airlines . As for what is the cheapest , that 's hard to answer as airlines change their prices and ca n't be answered objectively and accurately as they 're subject to change . In addition , it 's not possible to search for flights on large booking engines ( such as Kayak ) due to United States travel restrictions . As a result , you need to be creative : use European booking engines or go directly to the airlines ' websites . On a large European booking engine ( <URL> ) you can find flights from Cancun to Havana on combinations of Cubana and/or AeroMexico flights , . The flight time varies from 1 hour 15 min to 13 hours , depending on connections .
I think your best bet is to just bring cash in Reals and buy a " money card " in Thailand . You would either have to convert the currency to Baht first , or you might be able to just buy the card from the place you exchange ( depending on where you exchange , if at a bank , they likely would have some kind of card you could get ) . You may also want to explore credit card options . Capital One has the Venture cards which charge no fees for international usage , you just use the card like normal and it automatically converts the transaction by itself , and you do n't pay anything extra other than the cost of the thing you bought . I 'm not sure if this specific card is available to Brazilians , but if you look around you can probably find something similar . I have used this on a few trips to Europe and avoided even the exchange fees because I did n't even have to change cash , I just bought something for 10 Euros and it charged my card $ 13.30 ( current exchange rate ) .
Since you mention that you are open to getting to Cuba not necessarily directly from Europe but through a intermediate destination , my recommendation would be to consider one of two Canadian travel hubs : Montreal and Toronto . I recommend these because destinations in and around where Cuba are the main tourist places for Canadians for a big chunk of the year . You will occasionally find some ridiculously cheap fares through one or more of these methods : <URL> : they have regular deals as well as last minute deals . If you have the patience to look around their site , you are going to find some good packages . The caveat is that these tend to be vacation packages rather than just air fares but none the less , it is worth looking in to . <URL> : Air Canada and WestJet prices tend to go hand in hand a lot of the time . If one drops prices , the other one usually does as well . However , both airlines have partnerships with different hotels , etc. which gives you some more variety . <URL> : This is a budget airline where you will be able to find both cheap flights and vacation packages - in most cases , cheaper that both of the above airlines <URL> and <URL> : This site has a great collection of great deals picked out by <URL> where by you can get deals from all Canadian airports to other destinations . For example , on <URL> which is in turn a deal from Air Canada Vacations . All of the above methods usually require patience to be able to find the cheapest fares but then again , it is something to get started with :)
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
Western Europe is divided north and south by the Alps . For this reason , there are currently no water routes that go all the way from northern to southern Europe . The closest thing for now to a pan-European waterway is a route along the Rhine to Bavaria , to a point just over 100 miles from the Danube . A canal connecting the two was completed in 1992 . This was in the " middle " Alps , still a relatively low elevation containing the sources of the two rivers . Note that while the Rhine goes from northwest to southeast ( upstream ) , the Danube flows mainly east to the Black Sea . So your " southern " leg really ends in Southeast Europe . There are several proposed canal routes . <URL> The most interesting of them would connect the Rhine in Germany to the Rhone in France , linking the north Sea and Mediterranean directly . That 's over hillier country than the Rhine-Danube connection . Another proposed connection is from the upper Elbe to the Danube , across the Czech Republic and Austria , also linking the Oder river in Poland . Those parts of Europe are not as populated or as prosperous as the Rhineland , which is why completion of the connections may take some time . As for reaching the Aegean/Adriatic Seas ? Maybe in another century or two across the Italian and Yugoslavian Alps . The connections mentioned above were envisioned in 1938-9 , probably in connection with World War II >
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
My guess would be the <URL> , " Around the last bend , a Victorian castle rises above Lake Mohonk , surrounded by carefully landscaped gardens and pristine wilderness . Inside you discover a warm interior that is reminiscent of the beauty outside -- extensive woodwork , fireplaces constructed from Shawangunk stone , and expansive windows that frame the breathtaking scenery . " " <URL> " by Fred Hsu on en.wikipedia - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . The whole area can be well viewed by <URL> Southeast of the lake is a talus mound , atop which sits the Albert K. Smiley memorial . " <URL> " by Jarek Tuszynski aka <URL> - Own work . Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via <URL> . Another interesting view , available within Google Maps is the <URL> , providing a close us panorama of the talus rock falls .
There are n't many flights to El Nido from anywhere , never mind from Cebu or Negros . There used to be a SEAir flight which I 've taken and which was a wonderful experience , taking off from the giant NAIA at Manila in a tiny plane and coming in to land just a few metres above the sea :) You can still fly there on <URL> - but I think resort customers may get priority . <URL> has info on transport to El Nido . Do n't think that the lack of flights shown is due to the page being incomplete - El Nido airfield is just that , a field , and it does n't see much traffic . To cut a long story short , you 'll need to get yourself to Manila and take a ( prebooked ) flight with ITI or any other small airline which may now fly there , or get to Puerto Princesa and go up to El Nido in one of the regular vans . <URL> may also be an option from Manila to PP , if you 're a bit of a masochist . If money is tight , fly Cebu to Puerto and then overland . If money no option , fly to Manila and then to El Nido but do check the flight to El Nido is running and has a seat beforehand ! ( EDIT : ITI website claim the airstrip has been upgraded but so far as I know none of the usual suspects fly there yet - Air Asia , PAL , Cebu Pacific , etc. )
It 's highly recommended you bring gear , not only for yourself , but to leave behind for the local Cubans . <URL> , <URL> and others all pretty much say the following : To sustain the local climbers , please pack extra climbing gear and leave it all behind . The Cubans need climbing equipment , as it 's impossible to get it locally . The majority of visitors now follow the tradition initiated by the first visiting climbers , who left their rack , ropes , shoes and harnesses in Cuba . Try it -- you will feel very gratified . Some suggestions : Most useful are the basics : shoes , harnesses , ropes , chalk , pads and packs . However , the single biggest need to propel Cuban climbing forward is bolts and hangers . So , basically , do n't assume anything is available , and bring all you need . Sources above , and also I was in Cuba earlier this year . Incidentally , it 's changing very , very quickly so for future readers , do actually check those sites as the information may update/change soon .
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
Let 's assume that " London " is any major mainline station - they 're all reasonably central and well-connected for onward journeys - and that you 're only interested in rail not buses or taxis . All but one ( Luton ) have a station connected directly to the airport , though getting out of the terminal and to the station is quicker for some than for others . I have n't counted travel time to get to the airport station for any of them except Luton . All fares are single and assume no railcards , offers , etc. . Unless clearly stated , no change of transport en route . Trains per hour are during the day on a weekday . Gatwick Gatwick Express to Victoria . 30 minutes . # 19.90 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to Victoria . 35-40 minutes . # 15.40 single . Around five trains per hour . Local train to London Bridge . 35-55 minutes . # 9 single . Four trains per hour . Local train to St. Pancras . 55-70 minutes . # 10 single . Four trains per hour . There are also direct rail connections to Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , Brighton , Eastbourne , &amp; Portsmouth . Through train to Luton Airport Parkway . Luton Local train to St. Pancras . 25-45 minutes , plus 10 minute bus ride to the station from the airport . # 14 single plus bus ticket ( # 2 single ) . About seven trains per hour ( varies ) . There are also direct rail connections to Leicester , Nottingham , Bedford , Luton , St. Albans , and even Brighton . Through train to Gatwick . City Docklands Light Railway . No direct connection to a mainline station but 20 minutes to Bank ( equally central ) or go to Canning Town and then change to the Jubilee Line to London Bridge ( 22m ) or Waterloo ( 25m ) . Single fare is # 4.90 cash , # 3.30 Oyster ( peak ) , # 2.80 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Frequent service . If you are heading out of London to the east , you can also take the DLR to Stratford ( for Essex ) or Stratford International ( for Kent ) Heathrow Piccadilly Line tube to King 's Cross . ~ 1 hour , or a little less to somewhere like Piccadilly Circus - this is one of the few to go across London so you can get off in the middle ! Single fare is # 6 cash , # 5.10 Oyster ( peak ) , # 3.10 Oyster ( off-peak ) . Six trains per hour ( T4 &amp; T5 ) , or twelve trains per hour ( T2/3 ) Heathrow Connect to Paddington . 25-35 minutes , # 10.20 single . Two trains per hour . Heathrow Express to Paddington . 15-20 minutes ( depending on terminal ) , # 22 single . Four trains per hour . Southend Local train to Liverpool Street . ~ 55 minutes . # 16.80 single ( # 15.80 off-peak ) . Three trains per hour , one per hour on Sundays . Stansted Stansted Express to Liverpool Street . 45-55 minutes . # 19 single . Four trains per hour . Direct connections to Cambridge , Peterborough , Leicester , and ( believe it or not ) Birmingham . City is of course the clear winner on both price and time , but some others are better than I expected ...
You ca n't hitchhike to the Galalpagos . If you are trying to do things on the cheap your best bet is to turn up to Guayaquil in Ecuador . From here they have boats cruises that depart on tours around the Galapagos . If you have time on your hands you can hang around and wait for a boat tour where they have n't sold all of the spaces . Depending on demand , you can get a deal for as much as half the price of a normal ticket . The other option is to pay a cargo boat to take you . It can be a bit of a rough ride though and you may need to bring your own hammock . I believe it takes about 3 and a half days on a cargo boat so it probably is n't the most comfortable !
It does not cover all the regular busses in the country but <URL> is the main operator and does operate busses you could use . Unfortunately , it 's not a part of the national train company ( ÖBB ) and the website therefore also includes trains , which is why busses do not show up in the search results for this particular journey ... rome2rio is another site that 's very nice for intermodal comparisons , and it seems that in this case the <URL> . ( You will notice that the busses suggested by rome2rio can also be found on the postbus website , but only if you look for them one-by-one ) .
As a Londoner who does that route a lot : The easiest option is to take a taxi , which have plenty of room for luggage . However , it will be quite expensive , probably around # 80 . The cheapest option ( excluding buses , which would be ridiculously tedious ) would be the tube , <URL> - assuming you are paying cash ( you can save money if you <URL> ( or use a <URL> ) , which drops the price to # 3 or # 5 depending on the time of day ) . Fortunately in your case you can take the Piccadilly line the whole way there . The tube is more cumbersome with luggage , but it 's doable if you are on a budget . ( <URL> ) A reasonable compromise for one person might be the <URL> to Paddington , then a taxi to Kings ' Cross , which is only a short journey . However , it 's # 34 return each , so you wo n't save much money over a taxi with two of you .
I did a lot of googeling during the last few days and I finally found a more or less cheap flight . It seems that <URL> has regular flights from Zurich to Elba . Unfortunately I could n't find these flights neither on ebookers nor on some well-known matrix flight search engines . However , <URL> starting at 112 Euros . So it is cheaper and faster than taking the train .
You can go by train from Wrocław to Oświęcim ( Auschwitz ) and then from Oświęcim to Kraków . The last train from Oświęcim to Kraków is at 20h54 . You can check the train times and fares <URL> . I think that a less stressing way is to go to Kraków first and visit Oświęcim on a day trip from there . Alternatively , if you do not want to go to Kraków first , you could consider to spend the night in Oświęcim . This could be the night before or after the visit .
I was a night auditor ( see <URL> ) at two different hotels on the Central Coast of California ( specifically , San Luis Obispo and Pismo Beach ) in the mid-1990s . While some things ( mostly the technology ) has changed , most things are about the same . It would really help to know where you will be traveling , because California is such a diverse and huge place ( larger than many states and even entire countries ! ) . Weeks 30-32 are July 22-August 11 , which is the middle of summer . That 's better for finding a room than than June . From late May through mid-June , you have a lot of formal dances and graduations . If those events hit around the same time in an area , you may find that all the rooms have sold out in the entire region . For example , the graduation weekend for Cal Poly SLO ( a top university ) will result in sold-out rooms from Paso Robles ( nearly the northern border of SLO County ) through Santa Barbara ( middle of the next county south ) , which means you might have to drive well over an hour to find a hotel room if you did not plan ahead . I know this , because I had to literally call every hotel and motel I could think of to try to find a family a room that weekend . I finally did , but it was in Ventura ( 1.5 hours south ) . Night auditors are great resources . Especially on weekends , we keep track of ( or at least generally know ) which hotels have vacancy . If you arrive late , ask the person at the desk for recommendations . You might pay more ( usually the larger , more expensive hotels have vacancies when the smaller ones sell out ) . I also found that some B&amp;B s ( bed and breakfast ) had rooms left when the mainstream hotels were full . I sometimes had guests call me back to thank me for " upgrading " their vacation to a B&amp;B ( which they would not have thought of on their own ) . Bear in mind that you will be in about the warmest ( hottest ) part of the year , especially if you are visiting Southern California or the Central Valley . Temperatures may reach 100F ( 30C ) or higher ( especially in early August ) . The deserts will climb even higher , but drop to chilly temperatures at night . However , along the coast you will likely experience cool , foggy days in the 60-68F range . In the Sierra Nevada mountains , days may be quite warm ( 80F ) , nights cold ( 40F ) , with sudden thunderstorms or even rain . That also is fire season , so you may find areas you want to visit closed or undesirable due fires or heavy smoke in the air . The countryside will probably be brown and dry looking -- quite different from the lush green fields that you would see now ( in mid-March ) . Be sure to pack for a variety of weather conditions . Most hotels have laundry facilities on-site ( coin operated washers and dryers mostly , with upscale establishments offering dry cleaning ) , so you can get by with fewer clothes , but more variety . Layer your clothes . Bring tee-shirts , khaki pants ( like Dockers ) , a polo shirt or blouse , a nylon windbreaker , and , depending on where you travel , shorts , a long-sleeve dressier shirt , and maybe a medium-weight jacket . If you plan to visit high-end restaurants or night clubs , or if you will be visiting the San Francisco Bay Area , you might want to bring a complete set of dress clothing . Shoes can range from sandals/flip-flops , to sneakers or running shoes with good traction ( for the beach or hiking ) , to casual dress ( for evenings and dressier places ) . In the middle of summer , you probably do not HAVE to make reservations except on the weekends or if you plan to stay near the ocean , or a major attraction ( Disneyland , Napa , San Francisco , Sea World , etc. ) , or an airport . If you are visiting a small town , and there are limited hotels , I 'd also recommend a reservation . Weekdays ( Sunday night through Thursday night ) usually have lower occupancy rates , but , again , local events or conditions could quickly sell out all the available rooms . Most hotels will provide you ( if you ask ) a complimentary 6pm ( or 4pm if they are stingy ) hold for no charge , no credit card required . They know that they can almost certainly let a room between 6 and midnight , even if you do not show up . Be careful about giving out your credit card , because they WILL charge you for one night if you do n't show and do n't cancel by the required time . Note that a reservation guaranteed with a credit card is not a 100 % guarantee that you will have a room waiting for you . Many hotels offer their front desk staff incentives to fully occupy the hotel on weekends . That means a person staying in every room , even if there are no-shows ! It comes down to the front desk staff making guesses on how likely someone is going to show up or not . If you are going to be late , let the hotel know ! If it is after 8 PM , call the hotel to let them know ( or remind them ) that you are going to be late . If it is after 10 PM , call them again . If it 's after midnight and a weekend , call again . Seriously . You will be charged , of course , but at least you will have a room whenever you finally drag in . Final
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
Generally , the most popular tourist destination for beaches are located on East and South coast of Korea . With some minor exceptions , I 'd avoid West coast in general because most of their beaches look like this : I know one of your primary concerns is proximity of the destination via public transportation , but what you must know is that Korea has one of the finest public transportation system in the world . Given its system and the size of the country , you could almost reach anywhere in Korea within 3 hours . My recommendations are Haeundae Beach in Busan ] or Gyungpodae Beach in Gangneung . Both locations have clean , swimmable water with lots of infrastructures available . It takes approximately two hours from Seoul to Busan via KTX + maybe an hour to take the bus in between to get to the station and to the beach , you could easily set yourself a foot on Haeundae within three hours . To Gyongpodae Beach in Gangneung , you 'd have to take a bus in Express Bus Terminal . It takes about 2 hours and 30 minutes by bus + 30 minutes to get to the beach . Some of the answers here mentioned Eurwangni . If proximity is an absolute must to you ... you COULD try Eurwangni I guess , but you 'll probably be disappointed . If situation allows , I really recommend you take a day or two to visit Busan or Gangneung . Aside from swimming , there are tons of other activities you can do .
end question
start question
Which terminal is going to Rome in Toronto Pearson Airport ?
There is no Terminal 2 . Terminals are assigned by airline , not by destination . There are divisions within each terminal for destination , but you start at the desk for your airline . Transat uses Terminal 3 . You can get this information for any airline from <URL> . If you are being driven to the airport by a paid professional ( taxi , shuttle bus etc ) , do n't tell them to take you to Terminal 3 . They might drop you at the wrong end or have to ask you more questions . Instead , tell them " Air Transat International " and they will take you to just the right place .
In practice , as a transferring passenger on an international-international journey , your item is forfeit . If it is confiscated by airport security , then you can have it back if you decide not to travel by plane . You can not take it on a plane ( to anywhere ) . That includes back where you came from . If you do n't have a visa or a passport that allows you to enter China , then you will have to find another way to send your item to your destination . If you are a very important customer you may be able to put it in checked baggage by asking an airport worker for assistance , but if you do n't speak Mandarin I think you have almost no chance of succeeding .
Hope it 's okay I answer my own question as it might be useful to others but I tried an ATM at Scotiabank and I was able to withdraw $ 1000 . Not sure if it 's that particular ATM or just that bank 's machines but years earlier I renember being able to withdraw a large amount from SB as well . Perhaps RBC and CIBC save their bills for everyone so the machines do n't go empty but Scotiabank does n't care ?
<URL> . It sounds like there was a major expose and resulting crackdown . <URL> also states that there 's been a massive shutdown . However , the <URL> : But two days ago , the river was still busy with more than 100 tubers . One bar was still serving drinks and organising volleyball matches but had stopped playing music . Others operated from Eskis on the sandy banks of the river , mostly for takeaway beer only . ( note , an Esky is a coolbox - Aussie word ) . ( note , a coolbox is a cooler - no idea who says coolbox ) . ( - ; It seems that despite safety restrictions , you still get situations like the following occuring : New regulations , which are not posted anywhere in town , read " You must wear a life jacket . " However , none on the river , apart from some kayaking Koreans , were doing so and a staff member at the tube rental asked customers , " Can you swim ? Then no need . " So long answer short - yes , there was a crackdown , but no , it has n't stopped completely - so to answer your question , you can probably still do it , for now .
But as I remember all laptop charger is universal , so I guess I do n't need a voltage converter ? It should be printed on the charger - if it says something like " 100-230V " , you 're fine . Usually this is the case for stuff that people are likely to travel with , such as laptops . And I wonder does those hotel normally will have some power plug or converter that for traveller ? Hotels sometimes have sockets that admit multiple different plugs . If so , the US/Canadian plug will always be included . But such sockets are not always present , and often only in the bathroom , which is not a good place for a computer . Or I have to buy one in Toronto Canada ? I would recommend this to be on the safe side . Plug adapters are cheap , should n't cost more than $ 5
I was in Venice last year on 27th Nov. . Based on my experience on that day : You definitely need to wear jacket . It was around 6-8 Celcius . I put some of my photos below . As you can see , all the people wear jackets . On that day , it was sunny . I love photography as you do , and my photos in Venice were my best photos during my trip in Europe . However there 's a possibility of <URL> ( flood ) during November , which usually dissapears within hours . But if like you said you want to stay 3 days in Venice , your probability of having at least 1 sunny day is greater .
According to the <URL> , there is exit 2 with a staircase ( no elevators ) alighting on Place Bienvenue leading onto Avenue du Maine. : Accès Accès 1 : Porte Océane : accès direct dans la gare SNCF , escaliers et escalators Accès 2 : Place Bienvenüe : un escalier au 32 , avenue du Maine [ ... ] The exit can be seen on <URL> ( look for the yellow sign on top of the post ) . Assuming Google maps positioning is correct , <URL> .
The registration requirement for Mongolia is , as you say , and as <URL> other sources <URL> , for tourists who plan to stay longer than 30 days there . They have to register within 4 days of arrival . Since you have got a thirty day visa , I can only assume that you do not plan to stay longer than 30 days , and therefore do not need to register . If you currently plan to not overstay 30 days , but change your mind later , I would suggest that you go and talk to the <URL> at that point in time . You would have to do so anyhow in order not to violate your visa status .
Big Yellow Self Storage is a large storage company that has many locations around the UK . the nearest to coventry is in <URL> . I 've used them twice in London and my friends have as well ( I used to study there ) and they 've been very helpful . Some locations offer extended access hours 06:00 - 23:00 and they should be happy to help you move stuff as well . I 'd just give them a call and tell them about your predicament . This is the only company I have used but as far as I know there are many many more . I think any large company will be very similar in service and I 'd just give it a quick Google if you do n't want to go with Big Yellow . Unfortunately that 's the only one I 've used so ca n't really report about any others .
The very next day , if you can convince the border agent that you 're using your visa for the appropriate means , and are n't trying to ' live ' there instead . They 're going to wonder what took 141 days and now needs more . If you 're backpacking across the country , say , they can see evidence of your travels and you can show that say , you were now heading up to Churchill to see the polar bears and therefore need another few weeks . They 're going to want to know how long you 're going for this time , and what you 're planning on doing . It gets a bit more unclear if you 're a digital nomad like yourself . Technically you 're working for a US company from Canada . Some countries and guards can be very iffy on that . Essentially , they may see it as you living and earning money there , benefiting from their roads and so on , without paying and Canadian taxes . And that 's not approved . However , if you provide them with your business address and show that you 're travelling as a tourist as well , it might be deemed more acceptable . Short version : You 're going to have to convince the border agent that you 're not living there tax-free , but are a bona-fide visitor , there for normal visitor reasons , who plans on returning to the US where you live . EDIT : Indeed , from the <URL> : To visit Canada , you must : have a valid travel document , such as a passport , be in good health , convince an immigration officer that you have ties -- such as a job , home , financial assets or family -- that will take you back to your home country , convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit , and have enough money for your stay . ( The amount of money you will need can vary . it depends on things like how long you will stay , and whether you will stay in a hotel or with friends or relatives . ) I 've highlighted the key bit . If it 's apparent or seems that your plan is just to keep re-entering Canada , they may well disqualify you . Indeed , when I lived in Vancouver I had a friend from Utah who went to renew her visa , and was seen to be ' living ' there ( She was actually trying to move to Vancouver long term , just did things in the wrong order ) and was given 2 days to pack up and leave . So basically , that 's what your entry request will be tested against .
There is no formal distinction between visas for tourism or business purposes in the Schengen countries . There 's just a single kind of visa : uniform type C short-stay visas , with a single application process . In the visa application , you have to explain why you 're going , but you wo n't be held responsible for classifying the application into rigid " tourism " and " business " categories . Sure enough there are checkboxes for " purpose of travel " in the standard application form , but that 's just for convenience and ease of processing , so that straightforward tourists or business travelers wo n't have to word an explanation of their own -- not because the answer there selects between different sets of rules . You can always enclose a more detailed free-form explanation to clarify your answer .
You can use the InterRail with any train in France ( or Europe ) run by state railways except the Eurostar ( from Paris to London ) . If you 're going to use the TGV you have to know that reservations are mandatory so you 'll have to take care of that before getting into a TGV . When you 'll receive your InterRail it will contain some papers that tell you what train require reservations , maps and other useful informations so you do n't have to worry about anything . RATP is not supported because it 's just for Paris metropolitan area . As long as you travel between two cities ( towns , villages , etc. ) and the train is from SNCF ( or any other state railways company in Europe ) you can use your Interrail pass . And yes , www.bahn.de is the best when it comes to information about trains in Europe . I have found free rooms in all cities I 've been to but it takes so little to book a room that I highly recommend doing it because you do n't want to lose precious time searching for hotels .
With the help of Google maps , using the public transport option , it seems that Hongqiao aiport is closer and needs less time and less subway stops ( cheaper ? ) . Using subway , <URL> is 51 minutes away with 11 stops while <URL> you will need 1h25m with 17 stops .
During the strike there is restricted timetable - so you maybe have to wait longer , but you can get to Mainz by train . Take S8 or RB/RE to Mainz Main Station ( Mainz Hauptbahnhof ) . According to <URL> S8 will run every hour . Another option would be to get a ride . Check <URL> or <URL> - there are few rides from Frankfurt Airport to Mainz .
Actually , just found the <URL> . The article states that SASCO had signed an agreement to resume the Ferry service from Sakhalin to Hokkaido using " Пингвин-33 " as a ship . <URL>
There is no Terminal 2 . Terminals are assigned by airline , not by destination . There are divisions within each terminal for destination , but you start at the desk for your airline . Transat uses Terminal 3 . You can get this information for any airline from <URL> . If you are being driven to the airport by a paid professional ( taxi , shuttle bus etc ) , do n't tell them to take you to Terminal 3 . They might drop you at the wrong end or have to ask you more questions . Instead , tell them " Air Transat International " and they will take you to just the right place .
The trains have both heating systems for the winter and cooling systems for the summer . I have not ridden through the Rockies , but I have ridden in the Toronto-Ottawa-Montreal zone and never noticed temperature to be an issue . In the winter you will have your coat etc with you because you will need it for outside . You wo n't need to layer on sweaters or bring a blanket . Your coat will doubtless be hung up or be in an overhead compartment , and your hat , gloves and scarf with it . ( The <URL> says " You may want to bring a sweater as temperatures on the train may vary " which is a useful disclaimer . Sweater . Not sweater , jacket , and blanket . ) It 's possible that if you were right by the door , you might feel a draft while the train was at a station . I always take Via 1 and there are no seats by the door , just baggage compartments and the galley , so I ca n't speak to that . However the door is n't open much because the stations are hours apart . It 's also possible that if the sun was really streaming in through a window that you would feel hot . You could close the blinds if that happened .
Yes you can . Terminal 1 and Terminal 3 are adjacent to each other . The odd terminal is Terminal 2 , which is a few kilometers away .
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
end question
start question
What public transport options exist between Calgary , Banff , and Jasper ?
I would recommend a car . Once you get 2 or 3 people , it 's by far the cheapest way to go . Also , it lets you keep your options open for when and where you want to go . If you 're budget conscious , check out <URL> . I did a trip with my girlfriend a few years back from Calgary to Kelowna and we went with them . Was a good experience . The cars are n't ' wrecks ' , they 're just not as nice as the average rental agency . You also do n't have to be 25 to get a normal rate , and the prices are very good .
You can do such trip by " <URL> " company : From Kerch to Poti every Tuesday , at next day you are at Poti . Operations service phone : +38 ( 0482 ) 34-76-63 . According to <URL> , schedule is set at the start of each month , so you should call there before you came in Kerch . Also there is a line Batumi - Ilyichevsk , which is more popular line ( ferry goes each 2-3 days ) , and you have more chances to use it than Poti - Kerch .
While the cheapest option for locals is the monthly pass , that 's not really an option here . Note that normally , bus/Skytrain tickets are $ 2.50 , unless you 're travelling more than one zone , in which case it jumps to $ 3.75 . Assuming you 're flying into YVR , there 's the Skytrain into the city . It 's worth noting that straight away , you 'll be hit with a $ 5 charge for leaving the airport on the SkyTrain , and that 's not even counting your ticket . However , there 's a way around this . You can buy Faresaver booklets of 10 single or two-zone passes , that work out cheaper than ten regular tickets , being $ 21.00 and $ 31.50 . And you do n't have to pay the $ 5 when using a Faresaver ticket ( I was sceptical too , but I have checked this with two Skytrain attendants and confirmed ) . In the airport , on arrival , ask for directions to the 7-11 ( it 's next to the post office ) . You can buy these booklets from any 7-11 . Now it 's two zones to get into town , so it sort of makes sense that you get at least one booklet of two-zones . However , you might consider a book of one and a book of two , as most travel you do would be downtown and a single zone . Note that after 6.30 pm , and on weekends , all travel is counted as just a single zone . These tickets are all valid for 90 minutes , and on the Skytrain , bus , and Seabus ( ferry to North Vancouver ) . One other option you could consider if you 're going to do a lot of travel in one day , is to get <URL> . You can buy this at any Skytrain station . Let me know if I missed anything and I 'll add to my answer .
Only the March 29th and the April 1st are bank holidays in Spain . Between them there is a weekend that may be affected . Also the March 28th is bank holiday in some regions . There are not less transports in buses and trains , really there are more than a normal day , but there is more people trying to take it . In my experience , you should book your long distance transport one week before or you will have problems these days ( and maybe the 3-4 days previous and the 3-4 days next ) . Anyway , Andalucia will be the most affected region . About the Morocco ferries , the same applies . You can check the timetables and <URL> .
Coaches in Cuba - Astro and Viazul There are two main coach companies providing island-wide transport in Cuba : AstroBus and <URL> . Astro caters mostly to Cuban residents and intrepid travellers . Most of the seats are available for purchase only to residents with a valid ID , and just a few are available for foreigners albeit at higher rates . Overall its fares , quoted in local currency , are cheaper and , although recently upgraded , its fleet of coaches offer slightly less comfort with respect to its competition . Viazul bus fares , quoted in , are slightly more expensive , in exchange for an air-conditioned ( sometimes too much ) coach with washrooms and televisions . <URL> , these coaches are more reliable than Astro , cover most of the interesting tourist destinations , and adhere to a pre-established timetable ( i.e. buses try to be on time as often as possible ) . <URL> : Víazul is Cuba 's hard currency bus line and is by far the best choice of public transportation to tour the island . They run comfortable air-conditioned long-distance coaches with washrooms and televisions to most places of interest to tourists . The buses are getting a bit grubby , but they are reliable and punctual . Complete schedules can be found on the Viazul website ( the Varadero - Santa Clara - Cienfuegos - Trinidad and return service is missing from the website but runs daily ) . The buses can be used theoretically by anyone , including Cubans , but in reality , few Cubans can afford the convertable peso fares . Reservations can be made in advance , but are usually unnecessary except at peak travel times . Do not waste your time making an on-line reservation on the website -- that feature rarely works . Refreshments are not served , despite what the website says , but the buses stop for meal breaks at highway restaurants with bad food . ( Bring your own food ! ) The buses are often over air conditioned , so bring along something warm to wear . Note that most westbound buses from Santiago de Cuba run overnight . Trains There is a train network in Cuba which covers most of the island . Below is a map of the Cuban rail network , <URL> : However , according to various sources on the web , it 's organisation and reliability are a matter of opinion . <URL> : The main train line in the country runs between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , with major stops at Santa Clara and Camagüey . Trains also run to other cities such as Cienfuegos , Manzanillo , Morón , Sancti Spiritus , and Pinar del Rio . There is one reliable train in Cuba : the overnight Tren Francès between Havana and Santiago de Cuba , which runs on alternate days . It uses equipment that was formerly operated on the Trans-Europe Express , and donated to Cuba by France a few years ago ( hence the name ) . There are first class and special first class seats on this train ( the special seats are better and more expensive ) , but no sleepers . If only one train in Cuba is running , this will be it . All other trains in Cuba are unreliable . The equipment is often in poor condition , breakdowns are common , and when they occur , you can be stuck for the better part of the day ( or night ) waiting for a replacement engine . There are no services on the trains , so bring plenty of food and water with you . Trains are frequently cancelled . Some trains offer first class seats ( do n't expect too much ) ; others have second class seats , which can be very uncomfortable . Schedules are at best optimistic and should always be checked in advance of travel . There are no sleepers on overnight routes . If you are still thinking of taking a train , other than the Tren Francès , you should know that many Cubans prefer to hitchhike than take the train . If you are still determined to take a train , approximate schedules are given under the different city descriptions . Foreginers must pay much higher fares ( which is still very cheap ) than the locals . Tickets are roughly two-thirds what Viazul charges . Theft is a problem so watch your luggage ! Hitch-hiking Hitch-hiking is a valid alternative form of transportation which is widely used in Cuba by both locals and tourists , and hence is surprisingly well organised . Indeed there are dedicated , manned , pick-up points for hitch-hikers . These Yellow Points ( Punto Amarillo ) are found both inside the city , on the outskirts , and on certain highway routes . Tell the man-in-yellow your destination and he will hail a vehicle for you . Once he finds you a ride , you pay the man , which is a government official , and contribute to the Cuban economy whilst getting a ride to your next destination . Note that you 'll need to chew some Spanish language to use this service efficiently - you want to make sure the man-in-yellow understands your destination correctly . <URL> : The Cuban government 's system for facilitating hitchhiking is by far the most economical way for foreigners to travel in Cuba , though a flexible schedule and good Spanish are a must . Known as " El Amarillo " ( " the yellow guy " ) for the yellowy-bei
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
Gazole and Diesel are synonyms . They both mean diesel fuel , as opposed to essence or super ( short for supercarburant , nobody uses the long form ) which means usual car gasoline . You must use the type of fuel that 's appropriate for your car , either gazole or super . I think that diesel engines are more common in cars in France than in most other countries . The extra word extra means a type of fuel that has advantages compared with non-extra , either to mileage or to engine longevity . As far as I know , the term diesel extra is not regulated , it is only a commercial name chosen by this or that brand .
There is a <URL> going up to Niesen Mountain . As the Wikipedia article says , it is one of the longest cable-cars in Europe . An overview about the prices is available on the <URL> . You should look for the station at the top of the mountain which is called Nielsen Kulm . The price is around 53 CHF for a return ticket if you do n't have any reduction price plans . The funiculair starts at Mülenen which is rechable by public transport from Basel . Checkout the official <URL> , and you will see that you can get there in 1h46 , changing the train once in Berne , for a total of 112 CHF ( retour ticket ) . So in total you will have to pay around 165 CHF for the whole trip . Keep in mind that there is the so called <URL> in Switzerland that costs 150 CHF and allows you to use all the trains and a lot of cable-cars for half of the price for a whole year . So if you plan to do more such trips , it can be worth to invest in such an card . In this particular case you would already save 82.50 CHF . So if you think you 're going to spend another 135 CHF for train tickets in the next 365 days , I would recommend to buy a Halbtax Abo .
There is really very little difference between two crossings that take about 5 minutes to cross . In all seriousness , this is really akin to asking , " Should I take 7 Mile Road or 8 Mile ? " Fundamentally , you are n't going to remember either . The <URL> always struck me as the bigger , rougher cousin - the one that felt more like a war zone ( which , of course , in downtown Detroit is relative ) - but clearly the bigger of the two . Windsor is just a little place for casinos to cater to Americans who ca n't gamble in Detroit . As the bigger of the two crossings , the customs officials will be slightly more experienced , perhaps , but not enough to make a hill of beans difference . In contrast , the <URL> is a little more upscale , and a little less congested , but only somewhat so . Detroit generally gets nicer as you move North ( Bloomfield Hills , Gross Point ) , but ( and I say this as a person whose parents are from Detroit ) , it 's still Detroit . ( Okay , " Detroit-ish " ) . Additionally , the speed limits are a little higher in the US , and the Blue Water is closer to London so during rush hour , you might save a few minutes . On the other hand , once you 're out of Windsor , you 're just in farm country , so you may be able to pick up a little bit of time if there are n't any RCMP . Really , the only question between the two , assuming the distances are equal , is " Do I prefer inner city Detroit or norther suburban Detroit ? " And trust me , it ai n't that big a deal .
A folio is a list of your charges . For example , phone calls , minibar , laundry services , room service , valet , etc. anything that is billed to your room . Hotels maintain separate folios , typical ones are : Guest Staff Master ( assigned for group accounts ; for example a tour group consisting of multiple guests ) Non-guest ( assigned for other services ; for example the valet service might be outsourced to a third party , etc. ) They are mainly used for accounting and to separate charges for easy tax purposes . The invoice in hospitality is no different than an invoice for any other good or service - it is simply proof of how much you have paid and against/for what ( good or service ) . As soon as you check in , a folio is opened for your room . All services tendered are recorded here , but when you come to checkout - only the billable services are recorded as part of your invoice . So , if in-room wifi or an airport shuttle is free for your room type , then these charges are still recorded in the folio , but are not part of your invoice . They are recorded in the folio because at the end , the hotel has to balance those charges .
The City of Munich operates a number of indoor ( and outdoor ) swimming pools in and around Munich . These pools are invariably fitted out with changing rooms and showers . There is no need to go swimming if you only want to use the shower , but you will still have to pay the entrance fee . You can peruse a list at <URL> . As for ' reasonable fee ' , swimming pools usually charge about EUR 5 to EUR 10 , depending upon location and facilities available ( e.g. , sauna ) .
The main difference between Tatkal and Premium Tatkal is that Premium Tatkal is an Online Only service . According to <URL> Passengers can book premium Tatkal tickets online only on the pattern of airline fares - more the demand , higher the fare . According to a Railway Board official , premium Tatkal tickets are dynamically priced like air fares . The minimum premium fare is the basic train fare plus Tatkal charges , which vary from 10 % to 30 % depending on the class of travel , he said , adding the maximum limit for booking premium Tatkal ticket is 30 % of the base fare or Rs400 , whichever is higher .
Primary travel insurance pays for any claims you make straightaway up to the coverage amount you have while secondary travel insurance requires you file your claims with any existing insurance provider you have ( medical insurance , for instance ) and once that coverage is exhausted your secondary travel insurance kicks in . What 's better depends on which specific plans you are comparing and how much savings it brings you . Some medical insurance plans ( non-travel ) may not cover you for costs incurred abroad . Additionally , if you buy secondary insurance and have to get in touch with another insurance provider , you need to consider the hassle of having to file claims with an insurance company that may not have a dedicated support team to handle claims coming in from travellers and process them quickly enough . If you 're going for short-term trips , at least in Europe/Asia you will find it less hassle to buy a per-trip travel insurance policies which are often quite cheap .
Buses seem to be quite reliable in terms of schedule in Colombia . There are plenty of departures and they usually go faster than the predicted time . I took several buses , usually in the evening and always arrived 30min to 1h ahead of schedule . The quoted time could be to account for traffic at other hours . For longer distances , there are overnight buses but guidebooks do not recommend them due to safety concerns . I have no experience to confirm or deny that . Finding schedules for Colombian buses is not so easy though , see m <URL> which covers the norther Altantic coast . For the highlights , see <URL> and <URL> . Some of these routes are overnight or even more .
This Havataş bus appears to be new ( it 's certainly new to me ) , so I ca n't comment on their service . Istanbul 's public transit does not run regularly at night but the buses to Atatürk Airport are fortunately one of the exceptions . If you use the clunky ( in terms of interface and translation ) İETT <URL> website , you 'll find that there is a public transit option involving a change of bus that will get you to Yenikapı on time : You can only search on exact strings with correct accents so " Ataturk " and " Yenikapi " wo n't give you any results . The trip as quoted by the website will cost you four bus tickets which you 'll have to find , unless the bus drivers accepts cash ( technically they do n't sell tickets on the bus , but most drivers will actually do so by carrying electronic tickets which they sell privately ) . You might want to look into whether the 03:30 96T from does n't just continue through directly to as I expect it does , or if the 96T from at 05:36 did n't start at the airport . If nothing else , you 'll save yourself 2 bus tickets and an hour and a half sitting outside a mosque ( cami = mosque ) at night . Whatever you do make sure you have a backup plan because you ca n't trust the İETT website ! Keep an eye out for the Havataş bus since it 'll leave from the same place as the city buses ( but do n't get on the similarly-named Havaş bus ! ) . You should also be ready to abandon the whole public transit idea for a taxi at if you start running into problems . It 's not actually that far , so it wo n't run up too much of a fare .
About the closest way that I 'm aware of is the category for this on Wikipedia . Of course , it 'll still require you to click through each one . <URL> <URL> That European comparison is amazing , and I 'm hoping another answer appears with something similar , but this is the best I can locate . Note : even on a state-by-state basis , in the US , <URL> .
No . The option you mention is by far the fastest . Fly directly from Zurich to Amsterdam . Swiss has four flights per day . This takes 1h30 . Then take a <URL> from the <URL> to Eindhoven . That 's another 1h30 . There are plenty of ( direct ) trains between Schiphol and Eindhoven . Add the time in between to get luggage , go to the train etc. . And you are done . If you comply to traffic regulations , you wo n't be faster by car ( taxi or rental car ) on the Schiphol-Eindhoven leg . There are also direct flights from Brussels to Zurich . Brussels Airport is a 1h30 drive ( by car ) from Eindhoven . The train takes at least 2h45 and you have to change 2 or 3 times . Cologne and Düsseldorf are even further apart . Maastricht , Rotterdam and Antwerp do not have direct flights to Zurich . And this brings us back to Amsterdam ;-)
I am currently in Skopje in Macedonia and there is a 6am bus to Thessaloniki every Monday , Wednesday and Friday <URL> No trains at the moment .
I ca n't tell you why you get no results with a Google transit search , but I can tell you that you wo n't find anything useful searching the OC Transpo web site unless you already know exactly where you 're going , and it wo n't show you what you need to know anyway since OC Transpo does n't really go into Gatineau . So , here 's the kind of so-so news . There are buses which reach the southermost edges of the park boundaries , but they do not go into or around the park , and do not reach as far as the visitor centre or many of the places within the park you might want to go . You 'll have a bit of a hike ahead of you . Fortunately there are plenty of hiking trails ... So , <URL> routes 35 and 48 reach the southeast and southwest boundaries of the park respectively , and you can get either of these in downtown Ottawa . They enter Wellington Street at the Portage Bridge and travel to their last Ottawa stop at Rideaux and Cumberland , before returning to Gatineau via King Edward Avenue . The <URL> shows a few other routes which overlap those at some points , in case those might also be useful to you . ( For instance , routes 35 and 48 only run Monday-Friday , and you may want to find a weekend bus . ) Cash fare is $ 3.90 , and some discounts are available .
Since April 2016 , the <URL> is now in operation . This is a direct rail line from Denver International Airport to downtown Denver ( Union Station ) . The airport rail station is at the south end of the main terminal . There are trains every 15 minutes most of the day , going to every 30 minutes early mornings and late at night . There are departures from the airport until after 1:00 am . The journey to downtown takes 37 minutes with no transfers . Luggage racks are available on the train . The fare is $ 9.00 and is sold as a day pass , including unlimited rail and bus travel throughout the RTD system for the whole day . ( For marketing purposes , the line is branded as the " University of Colorado A Line " . Its Union Station terminus is reasonably close to the <URL> , but travelers should note that the line does not serve the university 's better-known <URL> . ) Union Station is right at the northwest end of the 16th Street Mall . There is a <URL> running the length of the mall , if you want to get to a different point .
end question
start question
Is the Zika Virus Outbreak Expected to Lower Cost of Flights to South America ?
Update : Even <URL> against travel , so the size of any impact is likely to be pretty modest : The Committee found no public health justification for restrictions on travel or trade to prevent the spread of Zika virus . At present , the most important protective measures are the control of mosquito populations and the prevention of mosquito bites in at-risk individuals , especially pregnant women . tldr It 's very unpredictable and could go either way - probably a little bit of both . Based on my experience of such things , it 'll fluctuate as the supply and demand fluctuate . It 's likely to go down , then up , then down but not as much as it went up - but the amounts , or amounts of time taken in each phase , could be barely noticeable , could be dramatic , and will almost certainly vary between airlines . Here 's a typical pattern : I 'd expect prices to drop initially for some airlines , as demand drops but supply ( number of planes , number of seats ) stays constant . How much depends on how steeply demand drops and how quickly airlines respond by adjusting supply - it might be very small , or it might be sharp , and it 'll probably vary by airline . For example , during the Arab Spring , many airlines barely adjusted prices at all ( I believe they just swapped in smaller planes and/or reduced schedules ) , but some had big discounts or flight sales ( I got a very carefully timed very cheap trip to Egypt in with BMI who slashed prices to the middle east by about half ) This may be followed by an increase in prices , as supply reduces to match lower demand , and prices adjust to the fact the new market includes fewer noncommittal price-sensitive customers and more customers who need to travel . This happened in quite a big way with Ebola - most airlines pulled out , and the few who remained had a captive market . It 's not uncommon for there to then be another adjustment downwards , as other companies spot an opportunity to undercut this expensive market and still make a comfortable profit . Royal Air Maroc did a strong trade heavily undercutting the other airlines flying into Ebola countries , for example - but were constantly adjusting the number of flights per week to ensure their planes were mostly full and their tight margins were n't exceeded , which can be inconvenient if your flight date is moved at the last minute . However , these examples are extreme cases . It 's quite likely zika will have a much smaller impact than Ebola or the Arab Spring .
While I ca n't really help with a flight + hotel combo , however , I can suggest <URL> ( not affiliated , I just compete there ) for the flights . You 're able to customise your request , so you could potentially ask for people to find you the cheapest double flight ( yours and hers ) for you to meet up . It 'd be an interesting contest at least ... just a thought . Failing that , what I used to do in Europe was to go to <URL> and enter London in the source , specify a date , and hit go . It then ( by not specifying a destination ) shows you the cheapest countries available on those dates . You can do that for both source places ( yours and hers ) in two different windows and see where the cheapest destinations match up . Then head on to <URL> and find a place to stay :)
The rule is actually 60 min for domestic , 120 min for international . Some companies , like Delta , even require 3 hours for international flights . That could have a series of motivations , mainly due to convenience . Bigger planes imply more luggage to load , more people to wait , more people to get on board . It seems reasonable that they do n't want the plane to get delayed with people who came barely earlier than 30 min . And they obviously need to admin on board everyone who came before the stipulated time .
It very much depends on the countries you go to . Europe is EXPENSIVE . South America - not so much . North America - EXPENSIVE . Central Asia - not . I spent 4 months in South America doing pretty much whatever looked fun , and eating well . I initially stayed in the cheapest hostels possible , but quickly realised there 's a reason they 're cheap - had some interesting ones , that 's for sure ! After that I 'd pick the cheapest popular ones . However , if you do this , eat from the supermarket , take cheap buses , and all that , you can very easily do 20-25 Euros a Day . A bit harder in Chile , much easier in Bolivia . This past summer I went from London to Mongolia overland . Western Europe hurt a little . The Baltics ( Latvia , Lithuania ) were great , then Estonia which uses the Euro pushed rates up a bit for food . Then I hit Finland , and goodness it was expensive - all the Nordic countries are . Russia is more expensive than you 'd think in the tourist cities - St Petersburg and Moscow . Once you 're into Siberia , things are much better . And Central Asia - the ' stans , and Mongolia - accommodation is very good value , and so is food . Transport depends on your bargaining skills in Russian / local language ;) And eating from the markets can save you a lot ! Again on this trip , it varied . In Europe , you needed 20 Euros sometimes just for the hostel . In Uzbekistan , it was much better . My accommodation in Dushanbe , Tajikistan was one of the more expensive ones , but it meant I had wifi which I 'd been missing for a couple of weeks . Of the RTW travellers , I find a lot of them talk with glee about the cheap prices in India and SE Asia . Some are shocked by the prices in China being expensive in tourist spots - more so than Europe . And some are also surprised at how expensive Australia and NZ are ( and so are the locals , I can tell you ! ;) ) . So it all depends on your style of travel . You could easily spend US$ 30,000 and have an absolute ball . You could also spend around 6 grand ( 500 a month ) if you 're really frugal and careful about what you do/eat , and where you go . You could n't do that easily in Europe . It 's all part of the fun . If you come home early , it probably just means you spent it and had a great time . If you can eek out the cash , you 'll have had more experiences , just not expensive ones ;)
If your phone is Android , you can download <URL> or <URL> for free which allows offline navigation based on the maps from the <URL> project . Be sure to download the maps ( also for free ) via Wlan before you need them .
You mean like <URL> this ? Use <URL> for any advanced needs .
It is a more or less personal opinion , but I personally would first travel along the Rhine valley . There you can find nice landscape and also stop in beautiful cities like Strasbourg . After that I would carry on through Alsace , crossing nice cities like Colmar . After that I would try to cross the Alps , to see some high mountains and beautiful landscape . It depends a little bit on where exactly in the South of France you want to travel ( i.e. to the border with Spain or Italy or between ) , but assuming that it is somewhere in the middle like Marseille , I would then visit the Swiss city Basel and travel along Lake Neuchatel and Lake Geneva back to France . There I would aim to Chambéry , located directly between two Natural Parks . And from there you can pass Col de l'Iseran , the highest pass in the Alps ( 2770m ) to get to Italy . From there I would aim at Albenga so that you can later follow the beautiful Italian respectively France coastline to your destination . Here is a map of my suggested route : Google Maps tells me it is 1495 km , while the direct route would be 866 km . So you see it is really a lot more to drive , but you will also see a lot more !
Turns out , it is now possible , thanks to a post I found on <URL> . A sample itinerary , that they provide , beginning in London : London to Barcelona on Vueling Barcelona to Casablanca on Vueling Casablanca to Istanbul on Air Arabia Maroc Istanbul to Dubai on Flydubai Dubai to Kathmandu on Flydubai Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur on Air Asia X Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne on Air Asia X Melbourne to Honolulu on Jetstar Honolulu to Vancouver on Westjet Vancouver to Cancun on Westjet Cancun to Mexico City on Interjet Mexico City to Bogota on Interjet Bogota to Fort Lauderdale on Spirit Airways Fort Lauderdale to Oslo on Norwegian Air Shuttle Oslo to London on Norwegian Air Shuttle Of course there are complications in doing so , as RTW tickets tend to imply a long trip , and LCCs often re-do their routes and cancel/change itineraries .
Three approaches : choose an airline that has in-seat power . get a sheet battery - the one I have for my Windows laptop adds another 7 hours or so - that attaches to the laptop and does n't look external , so you can use it in place get an external battery and take a break for a little while to let it do its charging under your seat or somewhere the crew ca n't see it , then remove it and go back to working My old laptop used to trip the breakers on planes if I tried to both use it and charge it , so I 'd use it a while , close the lid , plug it in and set it aside while I ate or whatever , then pick it up and work again . And yes , I choose my work wisely . If I 'm rendering video then my 9 hours of battery life will disappear in an hour or two . Still I occasionally render video on planes anyway . External battery packs for Macs surely exist . <URL> and <URL> . It says 32 hours for MBA , and 8 for MBP . That should help . And in a pinch , you might even carry two :-)
No , <URL> . However , <URL> if you 're carrying a lot of currency or other valuables in order to prevent drawing attention to items that could be stolen . This is probably good advice since you are separated from your luggage for a bit at the checkpoint , especially if you get stuck waiting in a slower-than-normal line for the scanner after placing your baggage on the conveyor . I 've heard that the United States government can and is seizing any amount of cash over a certain dollar amount at airports . That is definitely not true . They may be curious why you 're carrying $ 30k in cash and may ask you about it , but they will not ( and , legally , can not ) seize it unless they have probable cause to believe that you have committed or are about to commit a crime and that said cash is reasonably likely to be evidence of said crime . If they do have probable cause to suspect a crime , then they can refer the matter to law enforcement and keep you around until law enforcement gets there to question you . From the TSA Management Directive copied into page 19 of <URL> : When currency appears to be indicative of criminal activity , TSA may report the matter to the appropriate authorities . For all flights , factors indicating that cash is related to criminal activity include the quantity , packaging , circumstances of discovery , or method by which the cash is carried , including concealment ... TSA may also note any factors related to criminal activity for purposes of notifying CBP [ for international passengers ] and/or law enforcement , as well as request that the individual remain accessible pursuant to such notification . Of course the best advice is probably to simply not carry large amounts of currency with you when you fly in the first place . If you carry it on , it could be stolen at the checkpoint either by a TSA agent or by another passenger . TSA does n't keep track of whose bag is whose when they go through the conveyor . If someone grabs your bag or takes something out of it before you clear the scanner , they are n't going to know that the bag does n't belong to that person until it 's too late . For checked luggage , you are separated from it from the time you check in until you get to the baggage carousel at your destination . Airline agents , TSA agents , baggage handlers , ground crew , etc. at each airport you transit have access to your bags when you ca n't see them , so it would be nearly impossible for you to catch the culprit if someone decided to help themselves to some cash . If you do have to fly with large amounts of cash , <URL> has useful advice .
In general if there is a " Service Fee " , then this is the same thing as a tip . This is not the same as a " Room Service Fee " , which is NOT the same as a tip . Generally a " service fee " will be a percentage of the total , normally around 15-20 % , whereas the " Room Service Fee " ( sometimes referred to as a plate fee , a tray fee , delivery fee or something similar ) is normally a fixed fee in the $ 3-6 range . Frequently the room service menu will actually describe the various fees , and will include details such as that the service fee is " distributed to the staff " , or similar - which is your indication that it is a tip . Normally there will still be a line on the receipt for an additional tip . This is NOT mandatory , and is generally NOT expected . If the server has done something extraordinary for you then you have the option to add an additional tip .
( Disclaimer : I 'm not a doctor , etc ) Ebola is not contagious in the same way as , say , influenza outbreaks . It 's a horrible contagious disease , but it requires an exchange of bodily fluids for transmission - particularly blood , sweat , sexual fluids , vomit , bile etc. . Transmission usually occurs in close proximity - between family members , sexual partners or others sharing accommodation , through medical contact , or contact with improperly-treated deceased . Check your own government 's travel advice : but for an example , the ( very cautious ) UK government are currently <URL> let alone Morocco - here 's their <URL> : The risk to most travellers is very low ... Transmission of Ebola can only occur when there is direct contact with the blood or body fluids of an infected person , animal , or objects , such as needles , that have been contaminated with blood or body fluids . As for Morocco , not only is it the other side of the Sahara to the Ebola outbreak , the areas between ( Northern Mali , Western Sahara , South West Algeria ) are unstable barely populated areas with banditry and very little travel or trade . If ebola was to spread to Morocco , it would almost certainly be by plane travel , which is a ) closely monitored and b ) no more likely to arrive at Morocco than any other country that flies to Guinea . Those Ebola horror stories from the past that people love to share , of terrifyingly fast-spreading outbreaks , usually involve poorly prepared hospitals and communities responding in ways that aid transmission , such as re-using needles , traditional burial practices such as embalming bodies , and treating the sick without taking appropriate precautions . There have been major efforts since then to ensure medical facilities are better trained . You 'll see from news reports that even in the countries most effected , the numbers of people affected are ( so far , touch wood ) low . If you were going to one of the country where there were some cases of ebola and you were worried , these might be sensible precautions : Take similar precautions as you would to avoid HIV infection ( no unsafe sex or shared needle use , avoid other exchanges of bodily fluids ) Consider additional precautions to avoid exchanging sweat . Maybe skip the gym . If you 're exceptionally worried or there were reports of medium-sized outbreaks while there , and you wanted to feel like you were being extra-cautious : you might want to make more effort to maintain personal space and maybe avoid skin contact such as shaking hands , you might want to wash your hands more than usual and consider using <URL> physical contact with people or things that have been in close contact to other people before touching food or your face , ... but even these might be a bit excessive unless you were right in an outbreak , in which case there would probably be an evacuation plan . I 'll end with a quote in the USA Today article <URL> from a director of virology at the U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit : " You probably could n't get Ebola if you went to Conakry [ capital of Guinea ] now if you tried " If it was me , I 'd keep an eye on the news , and I 'd take normal health precautions , but would n't let worries spoil the trip .
Based on my experiences and conversations in Bali so far ( specifically : Ubud , Denpasar , Sanur ) , it appears that tipping works something like this : Restaurants You 're generally not expected to tip , but there are exceptions : At some restaurants , a 5 % " service fee " will be added to your bill . As printemps noted , you will encounter a sort of " share the wealth " mentality if you appear to be wealthy or are in an area heavily frequented by tourists . You should leave a 5-10k tip in these cases ( no more than 20k though ; keep reading ) . Do not leave a huge tip , even for really good service . It will be viewed as charity , and you will not leave the positive impression you were hoping for ! Taxis Taxi drivers generally do not expect tips . In Bali , taxis are not metered ; you negotiate the fare beforehand . So there is no " round up " tipping or anything of than nature . If the driver goes above and beyond ( assists with luggage , etc. ) , a 5-20k tip is appropriate . Other Services I 've heard that you should tip at spas and hairdressers , but I have n't been to any since I got here , so I can not comment . Other service providers will not expect a tip .
The ITA Matrix software was developed by MIT engineers . <URL> ( as well as other <URL> ) . Quoting from <URL> : In the mid-nineties , a group of MIT computer scientists took aim at a complex computing challenge that had plagued the travel industry for three decades : how to quickly , consistently and accurately identify the best available airfares without relying on high-cost , low-efficiency mainframe computers . The results of their work was a revolutionary airfare pricing &amp; shopping engine called QPX . The beta version of QPX was first introduced to the public in November 1999 , and Orbitz became the first customer in 2001 . On April 12 , 2011 , Google acquired ITA Software , and shortly thereafter launched Google Flight Search , an incredibly fast and easy way to search and plan travel . So the Matrix is n't better nor worse than Google flights , since the former relies on the latter when looking for flights . It 's just a matter of using one tool versus the other . Personally I stick with the Matrix because I 've grown fond of the interface . The main feature difference would be that you can purchase some plane tickets via Google Flights , whereas the Matrix itself does not allow you to do so . Moreover , the ITA Matrix seems to give you many more search options than Google Flights . Finally , Google Flights , being a Google product , will integrate with other Google products whereas the " pure " Matrix might not always .
On kayak.com , once you 've searched for a flight , look down the left hand side of the search results . There 's a ' take off time " for your flight , and just below that , a link for " Show landing times " . Click that , and now you can filter your flights by arrival times .
From what I have heard/read , people always seem to say that Fall , such as September and onwards , is the best time to cruise ( particularly for the Caribbean ) for the following reasons : School has started , so there are less family vacations and college kids looking for cruises . The worry of hurricanes puts some people off . Lack of vacations after Labor Day and before Thanksgiving . I do n't have any hard data to back that up though . Keep in mind some places , like cruises to Alaska , are only around during certain times of the year so there 's no ' time of year ' for them to be cheaper than others . And finally , the cheapest deals I can usually find are from last minute cruise deals , but you have to be ready to go within a week or two . Those are typically much cheaper because the cruise ship wants to fill up their vacant spots .
TL ; DR : If you have < $ 1000 - < $ 2000 worth of money , use a travel card ( you can easily get one from Axis Bank ) otherwise use a wire transfer for either your Bank Account or from a Forex Service . I happen to have a BoA account as well , so I do this quite often . In India , in order to transfer money to the US , you have three options , Use your local bank in which you have an account with all that money in it . If you have most of your money in cash , then your best bet is to deposit this in an account because that 's what they will need in order to wire transfer to BoA . This would ideally be the easiest way if your money is already in a bank account . Axis Bank is one of the better bank which you could do this with , because they provide a lot of forex services such as travel cards and all as well . Use remittance services with a leading foreign exchange service such as <URL> . They might be willing to take cash as well but they might require you to write them a check from a bank account . If you absolutely want to use cash , I think a PAN Card would be required in order to make sure that the cash can be associated to your account for taxation purposes . Get a free <URL> or any other service and load that with all your money in it and make a withdrawal using any ATM in the US and deposit all the money in your BoA account using the Travel Card . Now , let 's talk about the costs , Unforunately this depends more on your negotiation skills that anything else , for a small amount i.e < $ 1000 , carrying in your Travel Card would be a better option , otherwise , using one of the two services I mentioned is better . Now , I have gotten better rates from the bank as well as 3rd party dealers with respect to Forex Bank Transfers but typically for larger amounts i.e > $ 10000 you are looking at an additional rate of about 0.3 - 0.5 % . For the travel card , the rate is usually 1 % is the norm . Note : BoA will charge you about $ 12 for an incoming wire transfer whereas the banks I mentioned might charge you a flat fee of about $ 10 or Rs . 500 for both travel cards and wire transfers . As you might expect , these depend on the Bank/Forex Service . If you carry the travel card and you withdraw money from the card , a fee of $ 2 is usually charged by the withdrawing ATM ( in this case a BoA ATM ) and of course to deposit the money into your account , ( maximum of $ 800 per transaction in both cases i.e if you have more , then you need to withdraw and deposit multiple times ) . Lastly , what documentation do you require , Simple , all you need is the Swift Code <URL> of the bank and the Bank Account ( either Checking or Saving , any one is OK ) number you wish to transfer to and although not required , but the branch of the bank will be additional information which wo n't hurt . Basically any information which is required to uniquely identify the transaction to your unique account . To add , I would be highly surprised if you carried a major amount of money outside India in INR . This is not allowed as per the FEMA act and is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , Residents are free to take outside India ( other than to Nepal and Bhutan ) currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs . 10,000 - per person . More information about the same has also been discussed earlier on this website , check this question , <URL> In case you did though , there is not much you can do with it , because it is ultimately illegal and if you turn up with that sum of money in Indian Rupees anywhere outside India , you will turn heads and you risk confiscation of that money .
Many countries of the world have laws about carrying ID and the rights of police to check those IDs . Many of those laws also specify that a passport is the only acceptable foreign ID for non-residents . The frequency of which these checks are conducted varies from country to country , city to city , district to district , police officer to police officer . It is a good idea when traveling overseas to have at least a copy of your passport with you at all times . I scanned the front page of my passport , printed out a credit card size , color copy and laminated it . It travels in my wallet all the time . While it does not legally satisfy the carry your passport laws , it does satisfy most people who check ID from time to time , police , hotels , etc. .
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
I found a statistic for you that lists the average medical evacuation cost for at least some countries : <URL> As you can see , you have to be prepared for some 10,000 USD .
end question
start question
Four trip discount on Netherlands trains ?
In the Netherlands , there are different rail cards , some group discounts and special offers but no discount for multiple/return travel . A day return costs exactly the same as a single . Except for international trains like Thalys , available fare do not change over time and reserving a specific seat is not possible so absolutely no reason not to buy single tickets at the last minute if you want to .
Official punctuality statistics can be found via the website of the Swiss Federal Railways ( SBB CFF FFS ) : <URL> The interpreration is left to you . Punctuality statistics are often meaningless . Rail companies can too easily fine tune them . Moreover they are often meaningless for travelers . If someone tells you that 99 % of the trains have less than 5 minutes delay or that 99 % and precisely YOUR train is late ... For instance , if delays systematically occur in the late evening and you always travel in the late evening , " good " aggregate punctuality figures are only of little comfort . You will end up by saying that these statistics are " nonsensical " or " useless " . There is some subjectivity involved .
If you attempt to book at <URL> site you could see the amenities that a train has . For example <URL> for April 5th lists that trains have restroom in them . P.S. Not sure that I would consider trains in Israel travelling long distances .
If I travel to a destination in Europe that is outside the UK ( my home base ) , I take 100 Euro in cash . There 's no need for more because ATM 's are available . If I go outside the EEA , like to the US or Africa , I take 200 in Sterling and the equivalent of 100 dollars in local currency ( like Canadian dollars for example ) . My rationale is that if more cash is needed , then something extraordinary has come up where there 's a problem anyway . The exception being Russia . Although you are supposed to be purely Rubble in everything you do , you only need about 3,000 Rubble with the rest in Euro . What Mark did n't mention in his answer ( +1 from me by the way ) is for the generic case where you travel a lot . Then it can be better to keep <URL> . They can help prevent your <URL> in both directions . I keep a Dollar account along with my Sterling account just for that purpose . Talk to your bank if you think that a denominated account can be helpful for you . These types of accounts are available at most of the major banks in the US . Adding from commentary If you are going to be driving and the country levies on-the-spot speeding ( or whatever ) penalties , make the cash amount in local currency enough so that you will be able to pay there &amp; then . Or expect to have your car impounded until you pay in some countries . Update ( 5 April 2015 ) You have updated your question to now ask " What types of things is he likely to need cash for ? " In the Netherlands ( and most of the EEA in general ) , he would likely need cash for ... News agents Small grocery stores Traffic penalties Tips Older style taxis and gypsy cabs Open air market vendors Charity donations ( including cathedral collections ) Illicit items ( out of scope here ) The most consequential of these are penalties which are actively intervened by the police ( as opposed to violations caught on traffic cameras ) . Penalties can vary , but in all except the most egregious cases are less than 50 to 70 Euro ... Foreign offenders will be fined the penalty payable in the country of the offence , but fines vary across Europe , with Germany levying $ 10 for a minor speed offence while France fines offenders $ 68 ( or $ 45 if paid promptly ) . Source : <URL> In the Netherlands , speeding penalties are calculated with a mathematics formula , but it would be extraordinary to see a penalty exceeding 35 Euro if you are clocked within 6 km/h of the limit . Violations that are caught on camera are dealt with by a penalty notice sent to the registered owner . For visitors it means the rental agency will pay the fine and debit your credit card for the amount plus their handling fee .
<URL> offers " Sparpreis " saver fares up to a few minutes before departure . However , these are the regular saver fares that only rise and almost never fall in price if you are getting nearer to departure , Up until last December <URL> offered such tickets however that promotors on has stopped . A month ago they once again had a few without long notice so it pays to check from time to time . Note that they currently sell the same tickets as Deutsche Bahn directly but with a surcharge . You might be able to find someone selling their non-online saver fare on websites such as EBay Kleinanzeigen or local Facebook groups . However , never fall for offers to book a connection you provide them for a low price on those sites as an online-ticket . These are too good to be true . Other than that there are no last minute deals for Deustche Bahn trains in Germany .
<URL> : Some of the trains are fitted with luggage racks and toilet facilities ( usually located behind the drivers cabin or near the guard 's cabin ) And last year there was a drive to <URL> : Transport and Main Roads Minister Scott Emerson said it is reasonable for passengers to expect the most basic amenities on our train network , particularly on longer services . " Having travelled on the Sunshine Coast line many times before I understand how frustrating and inconvenient it can be when toilets are not available , " Mr Emerson said . " From today , trains with toilet facilities will be prioritised to the Sunshine Coast line with particular focus on those busy morning and afternoon peak services . So while not all do , the busy peak trains are more likely to have them , and as of last year , are more likely to be functioning ( ! ) .
A lot of what you need you can just get in the grocery store - rice , pasta , dried potatoes ( either mashed or slices for " au gratin ) , sausage like pepperoni and salami that specifically does n't need refrigeration , dried fruit and nuts , instant hot cereal ( oatmeal , cream of wheat etc ) , dried legumes ( especially lentils which do n't need soaking ) jam , honey , and peanut butter will take care of a lot of your needs . You 'll want to put things into different packaging so they can survive in your pack and so that you 're taking the right amount for the length of the trip . My favourite camping breakfast is instant oatmeal . Add extra raisins , brown sugar , or other dried fruits if you like . Boil water in the morning and you have coffee and oatmeal and you are set for a pretty physical day . ( Bring a whisperweight stove that uses butane or liquid fuel - fires are far too slow for morning purposes . ) Beef jerky ( made at home if you have a dehydrator , or bought in the store if you do n't ) along with dried fruit and nuts will meet any snack needs through the day . If you must have lunch , you can use bagels or English muffins ( on week + trips I <URL> english muffins , your trip is short so just bring a few packages ) with cheese ( the " light " cheeses keep better , and buy several small ones so they stay sealed longer than one big one ) , sausage ( the no-refrigeration needed ones ) , peanut butter , jam , or honey . If one of your days features a big climb to a gorgeous lookout and you know you 'll want a rest , packages of soup mix from the grocery store can make a 30 minute stop into a delightful lunch . Again the whisperlight stove and some locally-sourced water . Dinner the first night can be meat you took from your freezer that morning , wrapped in plastic and several layers of newspaper . I 've done it and when we unrwap it , it 's not just cold , it still has ice crystals in the middle . Fry it , and cook some fresh veg with it as you would at home . The second night try <URL> using that no-refrigeration pepperoni , some cheese , and maybe some onions and any other veg you 've brought . The third night , something vegetarian built around lentils and rice - we love kusherie - or beans in a sauce , like meatless spicy chili with dumplings . You can also dry hamburger meat ( cooked ) in your oven at home and use that as the meat in spaghetti sauce or shepherds pie filling . Set the hot pan of cooked sauce aside with a towel around it while you cook the starch - it will stay plenty warm and you only need the one little stove . These need you to bring canned or dried veg , I choose dried for the weight and rehydrate them right in the sauce or stew . Bottom line is this is way easier than you think . Have a great time !
There is catering on some local Intercity trains as well . It used to be served using small trolleys , but a few years ago they switched to backpacks and added more brands like Starbucks . The NS is not providing structured information about where they are . " On Intercity 's throughout the Netherlands and on the NS Hispeed train ... " <URL> ( Dutch ) However , you 'll have most change to find them on the longer IC tracks , e.g. : Utrecht < > Zwolle Zwolle < > Almere Utrecht < > Den Bosch Utrecht < > Deventer Zwolle < > Groningen There is some info <URL> , but I 'm not sure how acurate it is .
What you 're looking for is , in fact , a fully furnished condo with all utilities included available for extremely short term lease . They are rather abundant in Makati city , but they will be advertised in random places . These are investment properties maintained to fill the exact need that you have , and you will often be doing business with an agent of the owner ( broker ) who is paid a modest commission for sales and a monthly fee for the upkeep of the property . You 're going to be dealing mostly with Craigslist / classified ads unless you happen upon a property that is managed by one of the larger property management companies . It is not at all unreasonable to ask to pay a reservation fee up front and the remainder of the agreed amount prior to moving in . This protects the seller and you . You should also ask to see recent pictures of the property , and it would not be rude to say something like : Would you mind including a dated copy of today 's news paper in the photos ? Also make sure that the price includes : Electricity without additional deposit ( s ) Cable without additional deposit ( s ) Water without additional deposit ( s ) , working hot water in the shower You 'll know right away if you 're dealing with an accredited honest broker or some shady character trying to separate people from their money on The Internet . Finally , it 's rather common ( and expected ) for the receiving party to pre-arrange these things for you when speaking of business trips . It 's much better if you can get someone local to do the research and leg work for you . What I can tell you ( because I live in Mandaluyong and work in Makati ) is that the properties in the location you stated ( walking distance to Ayala / Makati ave ) are very nice , so your chances of hitting something good are very high . On a closing note , do n't forget to go to Glorietta mall ( ca n't miss it ) , locate the movie theater and then look for a food shop called Tater 's . Try the popcorn .
All trains to Crimea have been <URL> : From December 27 , 2014 services to Crimea terminate at stations in Novooleksiyivka and Kherson . The measure is designed to ensure the safety of railway traffic . Kyiv-Simferopol train No. 11-12 , Kyiv-Sevastopol train No. 28-27 , Kovel-Simferopol train No. 88/87 , Lviv-Simferopol train No. 86/85 , Dnipropetrovsk , Kryvy Rih-Simferopol trains No. 90/144 -143 / 89 , and Kremenchuk ( Poltava ) , Kharkiv-Simferopol train No. 92/81-82 / 92 will terminate at Novooleksiyivka station The following trains will terminate at Kherson station : Odesa-Simferopol No. 310/209 and Khmelnytsky-Simferopol No. 132/131 . Same applies to direct flights from Ukraine to Crimea . Your <URL> are to cross the border on foot or fly to Crimea via Russia .
Entering through France is definitely not a requirement . Even if you had planned to enter through the Netherlands from the get go , if you are staying in France the longest , getting a French visa is what you were supposed to do . Changing your plans compared to the itinerary you submitted with your application is not completely forbidden either but it does make your situation a little bit more difficult . Depending on the details ( including whether you have used this visa or stayed in the Schengen area before ) , it could in theory raise questions . Ultimately , border guards have the power to deny entry or even cancel a visa . They would not do that merely because you enter through the " wrong " country but only if they think you got a French visa to game the system or want to do something illegal like working in the Netherlands . That 's probably the source of the stories you heard . Because of this , buying a ticket at the airport would not help as it 's not a matter of fulfilling some formal bureaucratic requirement . The question is whether border guards believe you intend to go to France , do what you claimed you would do and generally respect the rules of the Schengen area . If they do believe you , it 's OK , you do n't need a ticket . But if they do n't , it 's too late , they wo n't let themselves be swayed by your willingness to spend some money to buy a ticket on the spot ( who would n't when faced with the prospect of immediate removal ? ) . On the other hand , buying a plane or train ticket to France in advance , while not required , could be a good idea and add to your credibility if challenged . Having other documents showing you will really go to France at hand would also be useful . Same thing for a return ticket leaving from France ( if that 's what you want to do ) and , of course , a good explanation for your change of plans . But only do that if you really plan to use that ticket and do not lie at the border ; You risk getting trapped in your own lies and giving the appearance that you are trying to cheat , which would greatly increase the likelihood of a negative outcome . See also the following questions for a full review of the rules and some issues people have faced in practice : <URL> <URL> <URL>
You 're asking for opinions , which are very personal . But ... Peru has plenty to offer . You 're probably flying into Lima , but not one person I 've ever spoken to who has been to Lima has said it was a city worth visiting . Because of that , I skipped it on my trip this year ( though I am stopping by next year ) . Distances in Peru ( and South America ) are huge . You 'll lose a lot of time moving from major Peruvian site to major Peruvian site . Adding Brazil to your itinerary will only give you less time to actually see and do things . Yes , Rio is very much worth a visit , but as you found out , flying between Peru and Brazil is prohibitively expensive . If you want to get to Brazil on the cheap , you can take a bus via Cusco to Puerto Maldonado from where you can get to Rio Branco , which is just across the border in Brazil . From Rio Branco , you can get budget airlines to Rio or any other Brazilian destination of your choice . But , this is a time consuming process . Yes , the Amazon experience in Peru ( yes , you can visit the Amazon in Peru , too ) is decidedly different ( and not necessarily worse ) from what you can get in Brazil . But , to get to the Brazilian Amazon from Peru either will cost you plenty of time ( overland ) or money ( flying a complex route to get to Manaus , most likely ) . My advice would be that if you can set aside 20 days , spend them in Peru and , perhaps , Ecuador . Or , if you really want some diversity , take overland transport to Bolivia .
I found <URL> which , as the name implies , lists late trains in Sweden . The user interface should be fairly self-descriptive . You can specify destinations , time period ( what you are actually looking for ) and minimum late time . Not sure if you can export the data to perform statistical analysis ( if that 's what your thing ) , but there seems to be an <URL> in beta that spews out JSON . Documentation is in Swedish , though . Other possibilities are <URL> ( with an å in the domain name ) and <URL>
No there is no catch . I am a three customer myself who benefits regularly from this perk . However I do believe you need to be a three customer for 1 full month before you can start benefiting from the ' Feel at Home ' offer although I can not find any sources regarding this so it may have expired . They do also say that it is designed for UK residents but I am not sure if they check this through ( not sure if you are a resident or not ) and it is not compatible with the ' Essentials plan ' The only thing I would be wary of is buying a SIM card from eBay . What benefit would you get over buying from three directly ? The link you posted has all the available information about the offer .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
So basically it 's not just two countries that make up the difference . For example , as as Dutch citizen you can get a visa-on-arrival in Mozambique , while Sweden ca n't . Sweden has visa free entry into Vietnam , while Dutch do n't . Rather than list all the differences , I 'll point to these two Wiki pages : <URL> <URL> They list all the countries and the rules for the citizens - visa free , visa-on-arrival , and so on . It also means it 'll continue to be more up to date as the rules change ( eg this past year <URL> - go figure ! )
Indeed there is n't that much to see in Amman , not a very touristic city . There was n't much recreational part to Jordanian side of Dead Sea , there is only one resort and the only place to stay there are quite expensive hotels ( Marriott and Mövenpick , both with room prices $ 200 + per night ) , so do it as a day trip or on your way down south . But I 'd say it was quite a let down . If you have an option to see Dead Sea from the Israeli side , you 'd be much better of doing that . As <URL> , Jerash is close by to Amman , and definitively worth a visit . From there I 'd continue down south , if you have n't seen <URL> , then castle of <URL> is second best crusader castle to see . I 'd suggest that you arrive to hotel in Wadi Musa evening before , as you 're gon na need full day to see all of <URL> . This is as you already know the thing to see in Jordan . ( see also <URL> ) Further down south , just short of reaching Aqaba , you can visit <URL> . It just a desert and rocks , but still it is quite spectacular . You can make Wadi Rum a day-trip from Wadi Musa , or go there on your way further down south . And of course Aquaba , there you can have lot of fun snorkeling in the reefs . City itself is also quite touristic , so you have lot of places to eat out etc. . As for transport , there are regular coach services between main cities . They are cheap and quite comfy , air-conditioned . Reaching touristic destinations might require you to take less regular mini-bus services . Really cheap , but comfort may vary . Other option is just take a taxi , they are n't very cheap , but still quite affordable method of transport . Especially if you on a tight schedule .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
The northern most road would be the <URL> which ends in <URL> and extends to <URL> . The northernmost road in Canada is <URL> , which ends a couple of degrees of latitude south of the Dalton in <URL> , so that would be the northernmost you can get on existing roads . It is also possible that you might be able to travel on <URL> which potentially could go even further north but you will have to check where they are and if you will be allowed to travel them alone but <URL>
There are some offers that start appearing on the web : A website called <URL> offers that ( it 's based in UK so be careful with currency of payment - see the <URL> to this question ) . <URL> offers flights and trains ( apparently it 's possible to book some outside France [ it 's a French travel agency ] but I can not guarantee it ) . In any way , as Mouviciel suggested , you can query trains in Europe from the <URL> / <URL> / <URL> providers but not book tickets out of these countries . You can have a lot of information on the trains ( like all stops ) and I use it sometimes for any train in Europe . It includes some local transit system . More generally , there is <URL> that will probably help you .
end question
start question
Will I have any issues with getting into Armenia if I have a Turkish visa in my passport ?
Turkey and Armenia have strained relations for somewhat obvious reasons , but it 's not on the same level as , say , Israel and the Arab world . There have even been faltering moves in the last decade to try to heal the rift and ease towards increased trade , and where these have fallen down , it 's been as much to do with pressure on Turkey from Azerbaijan ( recently at war with Armenia and with an unresolved open conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh ) as direct emnity between Armenia and Turkey . Opposition to rebuilding trade with Turkey on the Armenian side is stronger from the ( influential ) Armenian diaspora than it is within unemployment-ravaged Armenia itself - it 's much easier to say " no compromise " when you 're the other side of the world to where the consequences are felt . For example , <URL> : Turkey has canceled the first ever scheduled Turkish flights to its long-time rival Armenia , days before the first plane was due to take off , officials have said , following fierce opposition from Turkey 's ally and energy partner Azerbaijan . The twice-weekly flights between Turkey 's eastern city of Van and the Armenian capital Yerevan were due to begin on April 3 and , encouraged by a U.S. push for rapprochement , were meant to boost bilateral tourism and trade . It 's possible to book flights from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Russia , usually ) , and buses from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Georgia ) . Of course it 's always possible you might encounter a particularly partisan individual border guard , who might use it as an excuse to make a fuss or try to obtain a bribe , but the airport is generally pretty professional by the standards of the region - when this sort of thing happens , it tends to be on the land border with Georgia . Such ( relatively rare ) situations can usually be resolved by staying calm , avoiding confrontation , and if necessary saying something like " I 'm sorry , I do not understand . May I speak to your supervisor ? " . In extreme cases , I 've heard stories of people turning such situations around with a disparaging comment or vulgar joke about the country that is the source of the anger , but for ethical reasons it 's best not to stoke and legitimatise this kind of nationalism unless you feel genuinely in danger and there 's no obvious alternative . I 've not known anyone feel the need to resort to this travelling into Armenia having travelled in Turkey , and definitely not in the airport - in fact , I think the incident I 'm thinking of , they were travelling into Azerbaijan having travelled in Armenia . The wounds from the Armenian-Azeri war are much fresher and more raw in the Caucasus itself than those between Armenia and Turkey . You wo n't need to do anything like this in the airport in Yerevan .
Charging fees per guest is very unusual for the US hotels . Most charge per room , and as long as the room legal max occupancy is n't exceed , they do n't care how many people are there . Typical max occupancy is two adults ( sometime two adults and two children ) , and when you book your hotel , the booking site typically tells you this . You can test it yourself when you book your hotel by first trying to book it as " 1 adult 1 room " , and then as " 2 adults 1 room " . If you can book the same room , you 're not exceeding max occupancy , and if the price does n't increase , there are no per-guest fees . Also many US hotels , especially in the lower segment ( Motel 6 , Super 8 etc ) have open planning , meaning their doors open into the courtyard which is also a parking lot , meaning the hotel staff does n't even see you entering your room . To summarize , the easiest way would be for you to : Book a room for two adults ; Tell the hotel during check-in that your girlfriend will join you later : If you only hear back ' huh-huh ' ( I 'd say in US hotel this is 95 % probability ) , you can assume they do n't care . If they say she needs to stop by the front desk and show her ID , ask what if she arrives at 4:30 am ? If they still insist , then they do care , and in this case it is worth stopping by and showing her ID . If they say she can stop next morning , where you 'd be already leaving , then they do n't really care .
Going with a cruise line is an exception to the rule that you need a visa . Basically , Russia uses the visa requirement to control the inflow of visitors . But if you are with a cruise line that has ALREADY submitted to Russian controls , you are effectively " controlled . " The cruise line will only organize tours/excursions approved by the Russian government , using guides licensed by it . That , and not the " international accommodation " , is the reason for the waiver . When leaving the ship , you will need to show your passport and have it stamped at the custom house . They will then give you a pass that is valid only for that ONE excursion . Needless to say , you have to come back with the rest of the group , and not go out on your own . If you lose your pass , there is a fine . I believe it 's $ 50 . If you stay on board the ship the whole time , none of this applies . Then the " international accommodation " part holds . But if you go on your own ( not a ship sponsored tour ) , then you need a visa .
AA reserve seats in coach for their frequent flyers . They provide most , but not necessarily all of these for payment if the passenger does not qualify by status . These are the preferential seats such as aisle seats near to the front , main cabin extra seats or exit row seats . All the seats available for free are no longer available and you must pay if you wish to select a seat . If you do not wish to pay for a seat , AA will start providing these seats for free as the flight approaches , or at the gate , including the MCE seats with extra legroom . It 's unlikely that you will be sat next to your partner however . If the flight ends up oversold , AA is required to seek volunteers for voluntary denied boarding ( VDB ) compensation prior to selecting passengers for involuntary denied boarding ( IDB ) . These passengers will be compensated too . The answer to your question is the risk you will not have a seat is low if you do n't pay now . Make sure you check in as soon as possible as that is one of the selection criteria for IDB .
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
I think you might be able to use a password instead . See <URL> : Gift Ticket Orders ( GTO ) are available for purchase on this website . GTO allows you to purchase a ticket online for another person . This ticket is delivered to the departure bus station , under the following criteria : The buyer pays a non-refundable gift ticket fee at time of purchase , regardless of number of tickets purchased Tickets may not be sent outside the U.S. Both stations must be open at the time of the transaction and of ticket pick-up Buyer and recipient should allow three hours from time of purchase to departure time to complete the transaction Appropriate ID or a password is required to pick up the ticket [ emphasis added ! ] Only the purchaser may cancel the ticket or apply for a refund Ah , yeah , I 'm pretty sure now . See also <URL> : Will Call tickets allow you to purchase a ticket online and then pick it up at the counter . If the credit card holder is traveling on the trip , present the credit card used for purchase , the reference number ( displayed after purchase ) , and valid photo ID . If the credit card is not presented at the counter , a fee will apply . A non-refundable fee also applies for Will Call orders . If the credit card holder is not traveling on the trip , the reference number and valid photo ID are required to pick up tickets . You also can create a password for the traveler to use as ID . A non-refundable gift ticket fee is applied to each Will Call transaction where the credit card holder purchasing tickets is not traveling on that trip . [ Emphasis added again , obvs . ] Hope this works out ! Good luck !!
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
In general I would always arrive in a country with a least a little local currency ( if it 's legal to do so , which it is n't always but is in the Philippines ) . There 's been a couple of times I 've been close to stranded on arrival because I did n't . You probably need money to get from the airport ( unless you 've pre-arranged transport ) , and exchanging money in the airport is n't the best deal ( plus the counters are n't always manned ) . In Manila airport there are ATMs just outside customs that will take international cards . You can certainly tip dollars , be aware that people will probably getting a very poor exchange rate for them . You 'll need to pay transport in pesos . Try and have some smaller bills if at all possible , taxis ( airport taxis in particular ) will often claim to have no change to force you to pay them 1000 pesos for the trip . ATMs will dispense down to 100 peso notes if you request an amount they ca n't make in larger notes .
As I know , you definitely do n't need the Russian visa if you are not going to leave the ship during stay in port . So you need to worry about it . Russian embassies can help you to obtain Russian visa due your unusual situation , so you can try it all the time - we are all the people , and you always can try to communicate with embassy . Also you should note what 2011 year is a start year for the 2011-2018 tourism campaign , and you have great chance to solve your problem . The nearest shipment from Kerch to the Poti will be tomorrow , so you should n't be afraid for this ship is not available . Also I 'd like to note that this route is direct and has no stops in Russia .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
No you can not . A copy has to be certified / notarized in order to be used in lieu of the original for the purpose of identification . This is true in other areas as well - for example , in Malaysia , students whose passport is sent for their visa renewal are given certified copies of their passports from the school / university to carry with them in case they are stopped . The certification ( a stamp and signature ) make the copy valid for identification - otherwise anyone can photoshop a fake looking passport and use it . Your copies are going to be useful when trying to obtain replacement documents or visas . You can present your copy to the embassy ; which is used mainly to lookup your passport number quickly and to issue you a replacement document . Then you can take a copy of the visa page to the embassy that issued you a visa , along with the replacement document to have it endorsed such that you are not considered illegal in the area . I think the only place it may work is at a hotel for verifying your identity ; but for official / police business I do n't think it will suffice ; again , as it is something very easy to fake .
While this looks like a duplicate , it seems likely the OP is a minor , or someone posting on behalf of a minor . The TSA rules for ID for minors are different . <URL> TSA does not require children under 18 to provide identification when traveling with a companion within the United States . Contact the airline for questions regarding specific ID requirements for travelers under 18 . A school teacher probably fits the " companion " requirement .
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
To answer your questions : Can I leave with my Canadian passport US law says you must leave the US " bearing " a US passport , but there is no consequence for breaking this rule . The US does n't have exit checks , so there is no practical difference what you " leave with " . and let my mother bring my U.S passport to me once it finishes processing and enter with it when I come back to the U.S ? Yes and also will the immigration know that my US passport is still processing when I present my Canadian passport when I leave ? ( that is if I do n't receive my passport by the time of my flight ) hoping to get answers on this . . As mentioned above , the US has no exit checks . So you do not " present " anything to " immigration " when you leave the US .
The biggest factor will be if the two airlines have an interline agreement , which will determine if you can check your baggage through to your final destination . It would be wise to check with your originating airline to find out who they have agreements with ( often listed in the baggage info section of their website ) before buying your HK ticket . If they can check your bags through AND you are transiting through a major airport like Delhi , Mumbai , etc AND you will be in country less than 24 hours , then you can remain airside in the transit lounge without a visa . If they can not check your bags through or if you are transiting via one of India 's secondary international airports without a sterile transit area , you will need a visa . But India does offer transit visas for this purpose .
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
All biometric passports have serial numbers that change when issued . Per this notice from the Singaporean government , this is an ICAO requirement : <URL> And since virtually all passports are now biometric , even those countries ( like Singapore ) that did not previously change numbers do so now . Update : Here 's <URL> " Specifications for Machine Readable Passports ( MRPs ) and other TD3 Size MRTDs " direct from the <URL> : Field 05/I ( Mandatory ) Passport Number As given by the issuing State or organization to uniquely identify the document from all other MRTDs [ machine readable travel documents ] issued by the State or organization . " Uniquely identify the document " means that the number can not be reused for other documents . And of course it 's only a " recommendation " , because ICAO only sets standards and does not enforce them -- but if countries produce passports that do n't follow the rules , they 're not going to be accepted by other countries . In particular , <URL> . And a final nit : the standard above is technically for machine-readable passports , which is not quite the same thing as biometric passports , but the standard in question does document the rules of biometric passports , and all biometric passports are supposed to follow the rule above .
end question
start question
Is it common for travel agents to ask for credit card scans ?
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
It is possible ( for an unusually knowledgeable travel agent ) , but not easy . There are two fields in the PNR for each airline , the FQTV field ( frequent traveller number for mileage earning ) and the FQTS field ( frequent traveller number for status purposes ) . These can be set to different values . But airline IT systems are not always designed to understand that this can happen , so even if you manage to find a travel agent who understands what you are talking about , it is not guaranteed to work . If you use a tool like the free MyFlights tool , it will tell you which numbers you have attached to the booking and whether they are FQTV or FQTS ( or another type of FQT number ) . MyFlights is only available for Amadeus bookings .
It is still quite common , yes . In Sweden , long-distance buses are only staffed by the driver , and they only check for tickets on stops where people get on or off . On stops for bathroom break or when a longer stop is necessary for some reason , the bus driver will announce on the intercom how long the bus will be at the station , and when it will leave . As announcements are usually made in Swedish , you should either ask somebody native sitting nearby , or better yet , the driver him/herself . The majority of the drivers will understand some English , especially if you are on an " airport transfer " bus . Be aware that Swedes are very time-oriented and strict , so if the leave time is announced for 15:30 , then the bus will leave in 15:30 sharp , regardless of whether you are on it or not . The driver would not bother counting the passengers most of the time , but might possibly wait a minute or two if you talked with him and are obviously a tourist . But I would n't count on it .
While I can not pinpoint a specific show that sells tickets online to foreigners , I would like to give you a bit of background about what issues there are to join such shows in general . I hope this will give you a perspective and some pointers for what to look for specifically . Participation There are often foreigners participating in Japanese TV shows . One thing also to be considered is that participants in many Japanese TV shows are comedians or otherwise media-related people . If you switch on the TV , the majority of the shows that you will see are run like that . So the number of shows that would allow " random " people to participate is relatively small compared to western media . On top of that , most shows on Japanese TV can be categorized in these classes : Music shows Variety shows . Those are built around people who contribute actual content , be it from their own expertise or ( semi - ) celebrities who present pre-prepared content . Topics mostly cover fashion/food and odd/interesting stuff from Japan and around the world . Comedy shows with comedians and special guests , often combining the two above Game shows with random participants ( the most famous abroad being <URL> ) The issue is that in most shows there is a lot of talking and without speaking Japanese it would be quite difficult to participate in any meaningful way . For foreign participants , there are generally two types : Celebrities who do not speak Japanese but are there only because they are famous in Japan . I guess they are paid to be there , and I think we can skip this here . Foreigners who do something special , and in most cases speak Japanese VERY well . I am quite sure that they are booked by Japanese PR companies or are there to contribute to the content of the show . Not speaking Japanese and not having anything entertainmentwise to contribute to the show would be quite a big issue if you want to participate . So as a participant , I would say chances are quite small . You might have higher chances if you go out of Tokyo and try with smaller TV stations in regions like Hokkaido or even Okinawa , but if you specifically want to do so in Tokyo , it will be much harder , simply because they need high quality content for entertainment rather than foreigners who " just happened to pass by " but can not actively contribute content . Audience First of all , I have never seen foreigners in an audience on Japanese TV . On top of that , there is rarely a chance for random people to be part of it . Exceptions are large-stage music programs where tickets are sold like concert tickets . This is because the size of the audience in Japanese shows is often quite small and comes across as hand-picked . So often , the type of audience is highly controlled by the TV station . If you do not fit the target demographic , you will not be let in . The result of this is that you will just not have the possibility of finding a link on the TV station website that says " Tickets for our live shows here ! " . ( The same is true for most US stations ) You have to find a show that you like , that you will fit in as a target audience and then try to find a ticket for it . In the US , normally you can however apply or line up for a ticket directly . In Japan , it 's often a two-step process : You have to first apply via postcard for a membership at the TV station 's club ( <URL> ) , and THEN apply for a ticket through the membership account . There will be a lottery among all participants to get tickets . All in Japanese of course , and you will need an address in Japan to register . So as a summary , if you are going to Japan at a specific date and try to get tickets for something recorded in Tokyo beforehand without speaking Japanese , it will be very difficult unless someone here can point you to a specific show that would fit these requirements and help you with the whole application process , too . Additional Issues An additional note about the challenges with being a foreigner : Even if you speak Japanese fluently , bear in mind that any coordination that needs to be done with you is a big challenge , which is of course the biggest issue if you want to participate in a show rather than just being in the audience . In a company ( such as a TV company ) which is not used to frequently dealing with foreigners , the staff will not even be able to call you unless you have a Japanese phone number because international calls are normally blocked on their phones . Internet sites often require addresses , local phone numbers etc to register . If you do not speak Japanese , finding someone who speaks English is a huge challenge . Therefore , since you are trying to do something that normally only locals would do , you might have the biggest chances of succeeding if you have a Japanese local intermediary like a travel agent or a friend there to help you . I would also exclude Talent shows and the like ( see comments below ) . The coordination with you over phone , in Japanese and the fact that you would have to go to auditions
Presenting the card and running a transaction on the card are different things . I bought some show tickets a while back , changed the card , but kept the old card for ticket pickup . The company just wanted to match the numbers on the transaction to the numbers on the piece of plastic , the transaction was run at the time of purchase . People change / lose / expire cards every day , and no airline is going to wait until departure to take your money . Just keep the old card after you cancel it .
Let me answer my own question . I just got back from the trip and I found out that motorbike rental shops are abundant in Philippines ( but usually not advertised online ) . The price is usually about 600PHP ( 12 USD ) for one day . Even in rural places where there are no renting businesses it is easy to arrange for a rental with locals . I rented 6 different motorbikes throughout the country and had no problem whatsoever . <URL>
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
I have been to Dhaka many , many times . In these times I stayed in two different hotels , they both had toilet paper just like any other hotel in the world . A quick google image search using the query <URL> revealed a lot of toilet photos for hotel toilets there , all of them seem to show toilet paper . Also , reading Dhaka hotel reviews in TripAvidor showed no such issue . Finally , you are free to ask for the toilet paper because most people who live in countries where they use water instead of toilet paper they also use toilet paper to dry after using the water . So no worries .
It happens in quite a few countries , even in the USA . It depends on the card processing bank that the merchant is using . Some request that the merchant document validity of the card in " card not present " transactions . You find it most when a charge is done manually , such as sending your card details to a Travel Company or hotel and then they process the charge manually , usually at a later date . It provides some assurance that when they try to run the card , it is actually yours and not something that will show up stolen after they have already made bookings and arrangements on your behalf . If you are paying immediately through an online system , they usually do n't need this , as you provide some form of verification such as the CVV and billing address right then and there . And the charge is authorized before proceeding with finalization of your booking .
In general the point of the medical component of travel insurance is to deal with acute treatement abroad and then if nessacery to transport you back home ( flying someone home on a stretcher is not cheap ) . Accidents do n't just happen when travelling , so if you feel the need for insurance against disablity caused by accidents then you should probablly look for something that will cover you all the time . It 's probablly also worth checking if any pension or life insurance policies you have include any cover for this .
Yes , website that reference those codes do exist . CouponsHelper is an example . Better than referring to a website , I suggest installing the <URL> if you use Firefox as your web browser . Basically , every time you come across a website that has coupon number entry , a prompt appears on the top of the browser with known working coupon numbers for that website . It works with various retailers , including travel-related services . For instance , codes are suggested when booking a ticket on the French railways website .
Unfortunately , this is almost impossible . They normally accept it for the reservation , but you are required to provide a credit card in order to actually get the car . But there 's more . The credit card must belong to the same person that made the reservation . I 've checked the terms of the most common rental services such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , and they all clearly highlight the same requirement . The only advices I can provide you are : depending on where you land , try to see if there is a local car rental service . They normally have lower requirements try to contact one of those services and explain them the issue . They may help you .
Sorry for answering my own question , but it looks like all flights currently go through larger Yemeni cities , and traveling by boat is likely to be just as dangerous due to Somali pirates . From the <URL> : There is a high risk of piracy in the coastal areas of Yemen . There have been attacks by pirates against all forms of shipping in and around Yemen 's waters and the Gulf of Aden . Pirates have been using motherships to attack shipping further than 1,000 nautical miles ( 1,850 km ) from the coast of Somalia . All forms of shipping are attractive targets for Somali pirates , including commercial vessels , pleasure craft ( yachts etc ) and luxury cruise liners ... maintain a high level of vigilance and to exercise extreme caution when anywhere near these waters . According to the International Maritime Bureau 's ( IMB ) Piracy Reporting Centre ( PRC ) , there were 217 attempted attacks of piracy with 47 vessels hijacked and 867 crewmembers taken hostage in the Gulf of Aden and off the east coast of Somalia in 2009 .
Well ... this is difficult to answer , because how many is ' common ' ? However , I 've stayed in hostels in Australia , New Zealand , all over Europe , Central and northern Asia , USA/Canada and South America , and I ca n't recall a time that I 've seen them charge EXTRA for female dorms - EXCEPT when there were fewer beds . Now , it 's fairly common to charge more for smaller dorms - fewer snorers , people to steal your stuff or whatever . It 's more common to sometimes put an excess on some rooms to make them ' special ' and include breakfast with just those rooms . I 've also seen it where single guys were n't allowed to stay in the mixed dorm room - only couples , which I 'd say was bordering on discrimination . This was in Philadelphia , US . But it was the same price as the all-male dorm room . I think , as @hippietrail commented , in most western countries this practise would be considered gender discrimination - charging people extra based on their gender , although I think a good lawyer could argue it 's charging for security . However , for whatever the reason , I can confirm that no , it 's not common at all , and if I saw a woman being charged extra for this , I 'd certainly be arguing discrimination . However , I 've not stayed in many hostels in SE Asia , Africa or the Middle East ( although I 've been to a few countries in these areas , for whatever reason I stayed in guesthouses or hotels ) , and perhaps in those cultures it may be different .
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
Egypt , as like much of North Africa and parts of the Middle East , is volatile . <URL> of the US has a comprehensive website detailing the latest information on the country . It points out that while crime is relatively low , there has of course been several incidents of protests , riots and political upheaval over the past year . In the end , it is always going to be a gut feel thing . Many tour companies are offering 2 for 1 deals to get people to return to Egypt . People point out that apart from an <URL> , the violence has largely not targeted foreigners . Anecdotal information from friends who have been since the uprising say that they felt entirely safe . Tour companies are going to have the latest information and will know which areas to avoid . The election may change things dramatically , but given it looks to be the first ' free ' elections in decades , it may be a good thing , with celebrations rather than protests . If you 're not going anyway until 2012 , perhaps wait . I booked a tour over Christmas 4 years ago with 2 weeks notice , and given the situation , you should n't have a problem finding a tour or flights around then . In the end , as the state department website says , " There is nobody better at protecting you than yourself . " . Be careful , keep informed , be safe .
Weekly travelcard : Contactless weekly travelcard is only from Monday to Sunday , so if you arrive and leave mid-week , you might get better rates if you still get an Oyster card , and buy a weekly travelcard on that . On the other hand it might still be cheaper if you do n't intend to travel every day for 7 days to just use your Contactless and use the daily capping rates . Also , if you start your journey after 9:30 every day inside zones 4-6 , and do this at least twice in a week then you 're eligible for the ( not really advertised ) <URL> , which you get as a refund . Getting this refund to an Oyster card as a visitor is usually not possible , as you have to get back to the UK and touch in , but for contactless they can simply just refund to your card , even when you 're long gone . This is also true for any kind of refunds ( like if you forget to touch out somewhere ) : if you 're on contactless you can easily get the refund back to your bank account , but on Oyster you have to be physically present and get a refund at one of the stations by touching in . Boat services : If you plan on using the Thames Clipper boat services , then they offer discounts for people with Oyster cards and/or people with daily/weekly/monthly travelcards ( both paper and oyster ones ) . These discounts are not available for Contactless users . Also from mid September 2015 Oyster cards will be accepted on boat services , but Contactless users have to wait until mid-2016 Buses and trams : There are some slight changes when you use Contactless that will usually not affect your travel though : Contactless payment cards are <URL> on routes 402 and 477 or on the heritage buses which run some journeys on parts of route 15 On Oyster you get the " tram feeder " rates when switching between the trams and the T buses at Addington Village ( you only have to pay for one trip instead of two separate ones ) , but with Contactless you have to pay two separate tickets ( although their site <URL> I occasionally do this trip and it still counts as two separate ones on Contactless , I did n't try to argue with them to get a refund ) This is really a minor difference though , and probably does n't much affect visitors from abroad ( unless visiting friends/relatives in New Addington ) . Banking costs : See @JoErNanO 's answer about potential foreign banking costs associated with Contactless cards
Some better hostels actually do have curtains around their bunk bed , both top and bottom , but they are not many of there . Same for couchettes , some night trains have curtains but again that 's not the norm . I doubt that there is anything purpose built on the market . I think it would also be pain to carry such a thing with you all the time . I sometimes used towels or blankets borrowed from the hostel and just stuck the top end under the mattress of the top bunk . Of course this is much easier if you have the bottom bunk . I also used my mosquito net sometimes , it gives a little bit of privacy .
Adding a new answer since this needs an update : there 's now a new choice in town , namely the <URL> . As of Jan 2015 , it covers all public transport in Sydney and nearby , including trains , ferries , buses and light rail . Opal is your standard pay-per-use ' smartcard ' , just tap on and tap off every time you get on/off a vehicle . Some noteworthy catches/features : You pay for distance travelled , so long trips cost more . Every vehicle you use is charged separately , so train to ferry to bus means three fares , no discounts . ( Bus-bus , train-train , ferry-ferry transfers are free though . ) On trains ( only ) , you automatically get off-peak discounts when applicable . There 's a daily cap of $ 15 , which is handy especially for ferries , which get pretty expensive pretty fast otherwise . There 's also a weekly cap of 8 " trips " , after which all travel is free . ( Note that just transferring does n't start a new trip , you need to wait an hour for it to count . ) On Sundays you can travel all you want for just $ 2.50 . The airport access fee is not covered by any of these special rules , and must be paid in full each time . You can pick up an Opal for " free " at the airport , major stations ( not all though ! ) , 7/11s , newsagents , etc , paying only for the value you load onto it ( minimum $ 10 , IIRC ) . For time being , the MyMulti card covered in Gagravarr 's answer still exists , and a weekly MyMulti for the appropriate zone may be a better option depending on your travel patterns , particularly if you 'll be transferring a lot . The <URL> calculator can help you compare your options . ( Disclaimer : I wrote it ! ) But sometime in 2015 , they 'll pull the weekly MyMulti too ( they 've already killed off monthlies and longer ) , and Opal will be the only game in town .
end question
start question
Can you stay in Schengen area for longer than your visa expiration date ?
You have a Schengen visa with start/end dates of 6/19 and 7/19 . Between these two dates you have been given a total of 20 days to spend in the zone . The issuer expects you to spend your 20 days between 6/19 and 7/19 . You are asking if it 's OK to enter the zone on 7/10 and leave on 7/30 because your visa will be valid on your entry date and will have 20 days of unspent leave on it . No . When a Schengen expires , all unspent leave is lost . In your case it means you will have 10 unspent days on 7/19 which are forfeit . Those days can not be used beyond the expiry date . Presumably the start/end dates and the 20 days sync up to the itinerary you provided when you obtained your visa . If there has been a material change in your itinerary , you can ask for your visa to be revoked and reissued to accommodate your new plans . They like it when people do this because it demonstrates a proactive attitude towards observing the rules . See also : <URL> See also : <URL> See also : <URL> Also : <URL>
X Rays do n't penetrate metal . Circuit boards have a lot of metal and solder , making it easy to conceal items within . If the TSA ca n't see it , they get nervous . Hence the ' take out your laptop . ' ( Why they do n't require that of iPads , I do n't know . ) Now , all this being said , you can get bags that have laptop compartments . The only requirement is that they can see just the laptop and nothing else in there . This way , you do n't need to take it out . This trick , along with the " put all my electronics in my suit jacket , means that I get through the scanner as follows : belt and shoes , with my suit jacket in one bin unzip my backpack so that the laptop is flat and the rest is laying out in front my toilettries bag ( an old pencil case connected to the bag via a carbiner ) hooked to the top . I walk through , put my shoes and belt back on zip my bag back up put my jacket back on I 'm through in like 40 seconds .
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
Unfortunately , there is no way to definitively answer this question . Visa outcomes depend from embassy-to-embassy and case-to-case . From what you are describing , it appears the mistake was made by the German embassy rather than by you - although you should have taken the prerogative to check a visa of the correct length had been issued , but there 's not much you can do about that now . I would suggest that you apply for an Estonian Schengen visa and when you 're called for an interview , take documentation along with you to prove your student status in Germany , copies for the application form of your old visa , et al and explain your situation to the visa officer who interviews you . And then hope for the best .
You have to apply for the Schengen visa at either the consulate of the country you plan to stay the longest at , or if staying at all countries equally , at the port of entry . For the Italian consulate in San Francisco , there is an option to mail your ' verified ' documents instead of appearing for the interview . YOU MUST APPEAR IN PERSON to apply for a VISA or you may submit your application to the Honorary Consul for a prescreening and then mail it to the Consulate General . <URL> If you have any further questions , you could email them . They respond within a day usually in my experience . I could not find any similar option in the Greece consulate in San Francisco . <URL>
A multiple-entry tourist visa allows you to enter and stay for 90 days multiple times , until the visa expires . There is usually a minimum waiting time between exit and re-entry , and that is different from country to country . For example , <URL> ; see also <URL> . I have found <URL> , but to be safe , your friend should call the <URL> to confirm .
In principle , you are indeed allowed to spend another 90 days in the Schengen area , because the time spent under a long-stay visa or residence permit does not count towards the maximum duration of a visa-free short-stay , see <URL> One issue will however be how those 90 days are counted . When crossing the border , the guards might ask about missing stamps ( also on the way out ! ) . You can then show your expired residence permit to prove that you were legally present in Finland even though your last entry stamp is older than 90 days . But if you do n't have any document to account for the time between the expiration of the permit and the moment you cross the border , then that time will probably count towards the 90 days . And if the permit 's expiration date lies more than 90 days in the past and you spent the whole time in the Schengen area , then you have a problem . If at all possible , it could be easier to leave and enter the Schengen area through Finland , as the Finnish border guards might be more familiar with your situation or perhaps even be able to verify that you have an application pending . Traveling to France or Germany from there should n't be a problem after that .
The first thing to note is that there are in principle no situations in which you are free to choose where you should lodge your application . The rule is that you have to apply to the consulate of your main destination country serving your place of residence and , if there is no main destination , to the relevant consulate of the country through which you will enter the Schengen area . If you are planning a tour involving several countries , you could plan to stay a little longer somewhere or add a transit to target a specific country but this always involve adjusting your stated itinerary . The visa fee are defined in the visa code and thus exactly the same for all countries/consulates ( $ 60 for most pople , $ 35 for children between 6 and 12 and nationals of a handful of countries , and free for some special categories of applicants including infants and family members of EU citizens ) . Some consulates outsource some part of the process to a subcontractor ( often VFS Global , but France uses a company called TLScontact ) and they can add a processing fee on top of that . But that 's consulate-specific rather than country-specific . The documentary requirements should be more-or-less the same . The actual legal requirements ( and thus the standard an applicant has to meet and the valid reasons to refuse an application ) are also defined in the Schengen visa code and thus fully harmonized . That said , the requirements in question are pretty high-level requirements , e.g. " documents in relation to accommodation , or proof of sufficient means to cover his accommodation " which does leave quite a bit of room for interpretation . One example would be visits to friends and family : You need an official invitation but getting one involves quite a bit of hassle and the requirements do vary from one country to the next . However , it 's not easy to use these differences to your advantage as you obviously have to get the invitation from the place where your sponsor lives ... I do n't have any recent statistics at hand but those I have seen a few years ago show that there are indeed rather sizable differences in the refusal rates from one country to the next . However it 's not clear that targeting a country with a lower refusal rate can really help you . Among many other factors , consider this : There are also large differences in the origin of the applications processed by each country 's consular network . For example , Belgium processes nearly all applications for Schengen visas lodged in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( the Belgian embassy there runs something called the <URL> and handles applications on behalf of 18 different Schengen countries ) and this represents a large part of all applications processed by Belgium worldwide . There are many reasons why applications from the DRC tend to be weaker , or perhaps examined more rigorously than elsewhere and the refusal rate is indeed high , driving Belgium 's average up . But this is certainly not predictive of the odds of getting a visa from the Belgium consulate in London for a UK resident with a stable situation .
If your mother does not have something to show for socio-professional , she can still submit documents on the strength of her social standing ( i.e. , the ' socio ' part of socio-professional ) . Examples would include , her marriage certificate , church/religious memberships , other memberships and affiliations that demonstrate an engagement with society . A reference from the family doctor might be helpful , but should n't be seen as required . Since she is applying as part of a family group , it is unlikely to make a big difference either way . They are aware that not every applicant has formal credentials and as long as the primary is acceptable they will normally grant the dependant relatives a visa also .
From experience , it comes down to the decision on the day by the person processing your application . In essence , they 're looking for flags , problems or reasons NOT to grant your application . Your job is to plug those holes , answer questions and make it as smooth as possible . In this case , the ' flag ' is going to be ' needs three years tax returns , only has two ' . So they 'll look for a reason validating this . If you have added a document ( single page ) stating that you 've only been working two years , and have provided all tax returns from your entire work history , that should satisfy them that there 's 1 ) nothing missing , 2 ) nothing being hidden and 3 ) the ' question ' of the missing tax year has been answered . Short version : document any gap / discrepancy in your application . It 's very hard to have ' too much ' documentation .
You can enter China up to the date the visa expires , so in theory making five stays of 90 days possible . However you do need to be wary of the potential for Immigration deciding that you are attempting to live in China without the correct visa , especially if the time between exit/re-entry is only a day or two . Folks with a business visa are less likely to be questioned about this as work related visits often require long stays . But doing this with a tourist visa may lead to secondary questioning after a couple of entries .
There is nothing in the regulations that prevents an applicant from using a hospitality exchange or social networking for accommodation . They would treat these arrangements in the same way as if friends were offering you a place , but since they are not real friends , you will need to be a bit careful with how you present your evidence . It means you ca n't just say ' couchsurfing ' on your application ; instead you 'll need to demonstrate that firm arrangements are in place with each provider and that these arrangements are an acceptable substitute for a personal invitation . It would be wise to include a ' backup provider ' for each place you plan to stay to show that you have a contingency if the planned accommodation is not available or turns out to be unsafe or unlawful or otherwise unacceptable .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
I used to live near Regent 's Park and used to pass through on foot after closing times . I also took evening courses at <URL> which let out after closing times . Starting from the <URL> , you can take York Street and turn right after you cross the Outer Circle . This will take you to a wide grassy field abuting a children 's playground . It 's an area of the park called " Marylebone Green " in which you can star gaze . In this area you are also likely to see walkers returning from Marylebone to Primrose Hill . Depending upon the season , you may also see street urchins near the tennis courts collecting stray tennis balls . They may be undesirable company . There are other areas of the park which also can be reached from York Road/York Gate . Hyde Park is less restricted than Regent 's Park and you would be able to star gaze in the grassy fields immediately south of <URL> . Take care . I 'm also a member of a <URL> in Marylebone which has called for an alert on people molesting the swans at night . If you wander too close to the ponds , you might find a neighbourhood vigilante calling you in . Locals take those sorts of things with <URL> . Also avoid the ducks who might be feeding in the grassy areas . The comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) correctly points out that portions of the park are gated and if you get caught entering a gated area you 'll get a <URL> . Accordingly , stay away from the <URL> in Regent 's Park and other gated areas like in <URL> . Generally , the overall public mood is ' live and let live ' and that patrolling the park for out-of-hours violations is rather far down the list of police priorities . As long as you are not in a gated area and you have a reasonable premise , you 'll be fine .
It does n't matter what you wrote on the form - what matters is what was put in your passport . If you check the stamp you got at entry it will say how long you are allowed stay in the country . For example , a few weeks ago I entered Singapore intending to stay for 1 night , so I put either 1 or 2 days on the form ( I do n't recall which ) , however on my passport the stamp says : PERMITTED TO STAY IN SINGAPORE FOR NINETY DAYS FOR SOCIAL VISIT ONLY FROM DATE SHOWN ABOVE . Thus I could have extended my 1 night stay up to 90 days without any repercussions . The one catch with this is that Singapore entry stamps have a habit of smudging when stamped , so you may not actually be able to read the text referenced above , but as an American citizen you can pretty much guarantee that you 'll have a standard " visit pass " that is valid for 90 days from entry .
If I read things correctly , you are : Currently residing in the UAE Have finished your education in the UK and left Want to visit the UK again , for non-student purposes According to this <URL> ( at least my understanding of it ) an ECO will not cancel a existing Tier 4 Student visa that you have already used to enter the UK . You may however be refused entry under <URL> if you try and use your Tier 4 Visa to enter and the IO determines that your change of circumstance invalidates your visa , however this should not happen obviously , as you will be entering as a visitor on a general visit visa . I am confused as to what you mean by ' proving family ties ' , in the visit visa application , it does ask you to list the details of your Mother and Father , however there is no requirement to prove this in your application , unless specifically asked to . What I think you mean is , how are you going to show that family is one of the reasons you will leave the UK at the end of your visit . You can not prove this , as you already said , because your family lives in Uganda and you do not . Do n't worry , this is not something that severely affects your application . If you can prove beyond reasonable doubt via other means ( economic ties as you said , for example , like a job in the UAE ) , then that should not be an issue . Please correct me if I have misunderstood anything in your question .
The 90 days are the time you can spend in other Schengen countries , excluding Spain . That 's the point of D-visas : Staying longer than 90 days in one country and only incidentally in others . If Spain was included , the 115 days would be meaningless and it would never be possible to stay longer than three months with such a visa . You can also leave through Finland , there is no requirement to leave through Spain . The only concern could be that Finnish border guards suspect you have actually been longer than 90 days in Finland ( thus abusing your Spanish visa to reside there instead of Spain ) . It 's very unlikely to come up but if you are worried about it , you can keep some evidence that you have only been there for a week , things like a ticket from Spain to Finland , receipts or anything else proving your presence in Spain during the past 4 months , etc. .
Croatia is still not part of the Schengen area . The border between Croatia and , say , Slovenia or Hungary is treated as an external border and you should get an exit stamp , which also means the time spent in Croatia will not count towards the 90-day maximum stay in the Schengen area . Same thing if you take a flight out of a Schengen country to Croatia . Just like flights to the UK , they leave from the non-Schengen part of the airport . In practice , the fact that Croatia is bound to join the Schengen area means it has to implement similar rules and show it can perform border controls up to a certain standard . But even if it is ready next year , there will be some time before it actually becomes part of the Schengen area ( " fully implements the Schengen acquis " in the lingo ) . Note that Romania and Bulgaria were supposed to join at the beginning of 2014 and were deemed ready by the European Commission but their entry was still blocked by other member states so it 's not clear what will happen after Croatia officially applies .
The options are : Tourist visa in your home country ( 1-3 entries , 60 +30 days on each entry ) Documentation is not particularly difficult . Exact requirements vary depending on the consulate , but usually it 's a 1-page application form , two photos , copy of confirmed flight itinerary and a recent bank statement showing some minimal balance ( $ 1500 or so ) . Visa fee is $ 35 per entry ( plus postage both ways if applying by mail ) . Applying by mail is possible in most countries , allow at least 2 weeks turnaround time . The disadvantage is a small chance that your passport may get misplaced . Applying in person normally involves two visits , one to turn in the documents , and then next day to pick up the visa . The consulates are closed on Thai and US holidays . In large countries ( USA , UK , Germany ) there are several honorary consulates which tend to be less fussy and far more polite than the Thai Embassy in DC or large consulates ( LA , NYC , Chicago ) . However , they may be hard to find and have limited hours . An advantage of applying before the trip in your home country is that you can ask for a 2 or 3-entry tourist visa , which gives you a longer stay . Consulates in SE Asia generally issue only single-entry visas . Allowed stay is 60 days per entry . A one-time 30-day extension stamp can be obtained at an immigration office within Thailand ( takes ~ 3-6h , 1900 baht ) . Visa-free entry by air ( 30 days ) To extend , fly to one of the neighboring countries and come back ( there are many low-cost airlines , like AirAsia ) . You can also exit Thailand by land and fly back one-way . Technically , Thai immigration ( or the airline ) may ask you to show an air ticket back to your home country within the 30 days and proof of funds , but this is rarely enforced , especially if you look clean-cut . Visa-free entry by land ( 15 days ) Entering Thailand through any land border crossing ( most often to Cambodia or Laos ) allows you to stay for only 15 days . A visa-run ( crossing the closest border and coming back to Thailand immediately ) is often used . There are tour companies which facilitate this ( usually to Poipet , Cambodia as this is closest to Bangkok ) . Laos and Cambodia charge for visas at the border ( $ 20 - $ 40 ) . Therefore , a visa-run by a low-cost airline to a place which does not charge ( e.g. Singapore or Malaysia ) for a 30-day entry may not be more expensive than two 15-day visa-runs by land . Tourist visa in SE Asia ( 60 +30 days ) Thai consulates in SE Asia issue single-entry tourist visas to foreigners , allowing a 60 day stay and 30 day extension . Documentation requirements tend to be minimal ( less than in your home country ) . Most commonly used ones are in Penang , Malaysia and Vientiane , Laos ( latter can be easily reached by land , 8hr by bus from Bangkok ) . Usually the service is next-day . Relatively affordable and reliable agents can be used to avoid standing in lines . Some consulates ( Rangoon , Hong Kong , HCMC ) are known to be restrictive , check before going . Notes : 30-day by air / 15 days by land policy applies to most Western passports ( e.g. USA , UK , France , Germany ) . For specific details that apply to your nationality , check the <URL> . Some countries ( e.g. Brazil , Korea ) , get 90 days visa-free either by land or air . Rules change often , above is valid as of October 2011 . Visa requirements and fees can vary at different consulates ( even within the same country ) . Thai consulate websites are often out-of-date . Visa validity date indicates the last allowed entry date , not to allowed duration of stay . For example , a tourist visa valid until 2011-12-31 means that this is the last day you 'll be allowed to enter Thailand . Duration of stay is determined by the entry stamp ( 60-days normally , double-check after immigration ) .
According to the <URL> : U.S. driver 's licenses may be used in Guatemala for a period of thirty days . So the officer was right . Anyway , according to the same page , you have three options to drive there after the thirty days : International Driver 's Licenses : We understand that Guatemala recognizes the International Driver 's License , which is available in the United States through chapters of the American Automobile Association ( AAA ) . When driving with an International Driver 's License , a valid U.S. state license should also be carried . Temporary Driving Permits or Permisos : The Guatemalan National Civil Police can issue temporary permits or permisos to foreigners who hold valid driver 's licenses from another country and who need to drive in Guatemala beyond their initial thirty day period in the country . Such permisos cost Q30 per month of validity , and may not be issued for a period in excess of the applicant 's authorized stay ( i.e. , the term of their visa ) in Guatemala . There are tramitadores in Guatemala City and elsewhere who may be able to assist an applicant in obtaining such a permiso . When driving with a permiso , one must carry one 's valid foreign driver 's license in addition to the permiso . Permisos can be obtained at : Departamento de Transito Galerias del Sur Calzada Aguilar Batres 34-70 , Zona 11 Tel. (502) 2320-4545 www.dtransito.gob.gt Guatemalan Driver 's Licenses : At the present , we have been advised that the Department of Transit of the National Civil Police will only issue Guatemalan driver 's licenses to persons who are properly documented as residents of Guatemala . Persons who have applied for Guatemalan resident status , but who have not yet been granted that status , are not eligible for Guatemalan driver 's licenses . When applying for a Guatemalan driver 's license , in addition to the application form , foreign residents of Guatemala need to provide the following documents and information to the Department of Transit : ( i ) six cedula-sized photos ; ( ii ) the applicant 's blood type ; ( iii ) whether the applicant is allergic to penicillin ; ( iv ) a photocopy of the applicant 's passport or cedula ; and ( v ) a valid foreign driver 's license ( to avoid having to take the written and driving tests again ) . An applicant will also need to submit to a vision exam .
end question
start question
Is it worth booking Amtrak in advance ?
Yes , it is worth purchasing Amtrak tickets as early as possible . Amtrak does practice yield management , although it is not nearly as sophisticated as the airlines in this regard . Fares will increase closer to the date and time of travel . Equally importantly , however , Amtrak has a relatively generous change policy in that if your plans change , you only need to pay the fare difference , without a penalty or change fee . If someone purchased a ticket in a low fare bucket and then cancels it close to the departure , sometimes the seat gets released for the original price ; however , this is not something you can count on .
Officially Qantas allow bookings up to 353 days in advance , although if you 're booking through a 3rd party that can sometimes be reduced down to 330 days which is more of an industry standard . The exact number of days ( or at least , your perception of it ! ) can also vary slightly depending on timezones - Sydney is 10 or 11 hours ahead of the UK , thus it can already be " tomorrow " in Sydney when it 's still " today " in the UK . In the case of Avios , it looks like they allow the full 353 days . Currently the Qantas Australia website is allowing me to view flights up to December 25 , 2013 . The BA/Avios website allows me to select days up until December 26 , but actually looking for the 26th shows no flights available on Qantas . Picking two typical routes ( SYD-BNE and SYD-LAX ) the availability appears to be exactly the same on both the Qantas and Avios websites for the 24th and the 25th of December , which matches what I 've seen before when comparing the two . As an aside , redeeming Avios points for most Qantas domestic flights is an excellent use of them - the redemption rates are far better than even Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the same flights !
The advice to get vaccinated 3-4 weeks prior to traveling should be read as " at least 3-4 weeks prior " . Typically , it takes your body 's immune system a little while to respond to the vaccine by creating antibodies . Thus , if you travel immediately after getting a vaccination , you may still be vulnerable to those infections . In the case of hepatitis vaccine the protection it affords will last 10 years . So getting it a bit sooner than 4 weeks prior to travel is a non-issue . I 've never heard of a vaccine that does n't afford at least 3 years protection . So , in summary , if it is more convenient to get your vaccinations 6 months prior to travel , then go right ahead . Just keep track of the duration of their effectiveness for future travels . You 'll need to ' top them up ' sooner then otherwise as a consequence .
The general ( worldwide ) trend is probably to extend VOA but since visa rules are in a constant state of flux buying a visa from a Consulate should provide some reassurance that you wo n't be declined boarding due to the withdrawal of a VOA facility . VOAs can be cheaper than visas via Consulates which are easy money , so not promoted as heavily ( eg by visa agencies ) -- may account for some of your ( understandable ! ) confusion . Tanzania however is not trying to discourage tourists and the fees are the same either way ( <URL> for a German citizen ) . Waits seem to vary roughly <URL> so if on a very tight timescale via Consulate might get you out of the airport a little sooner . Note that Tanzania are fussy about the age and condition of notes if paying in USD -- not an issue is buying the visa at a Consulate . Also that VOAs for Tanzania are only valid for arrival at certain <URL> . Elsewhere there is no VOA option . <URL> . <URL>
Booking Sri-Lankan Train Tickets Online <URL> says that to date the only tickets that are bookable online are those for the <URL> and <URL> carriages for the Colombo-Kandy-Badulla journey . The regular trains can not be booked online ( quoting from <URL> ) : How to buy tickets ... The privately-run ExpoRail &amp; Rajadhani carriages Colombo-Kandy-Badulla can be booked online at www.exporail.lk &amp; www.rajadhani.lk . The regular Sri Lanka Railways trains can not be booked online , but it 's easy to buy tickets when you get to Sri Lanka at the station . In Colombo , there is a special ticket window for tourists in the 1st &amp; 2nd class advance booking office at the east end of Colombo Fort station . Since you wish to travel on the Colombo-Kandi stretch , you 'll be able to book that part of the journey on the Rajadhani in advance . <URL> . If you 'd rather take the InterCity train , then you 'll have to go to the ticket office in person or send someone on your behalf . Also note that reservations open 45 days before departure ( quoting from <URL> ) : Reservations for trains with reserved seating such as InterCity Express trains open 45 days in advance ( extended from 10 days in late 2013 ) . Seats in the 1st class observation car from Colombo to Kandy can get fully-booked from time to time , so book a few days ahead if you can , but you may well find seats available on the day of travel . Other trains ( shown as having unreserved seats ) do n't require a reservation , you just buy a ticket on and hop on . Purchasing Tickets in Advance <URL> suggests one possible alternative to online booking : using local travel agencies . The linked site has a few agencies listed . Note that these will obviously charge a fee for the booking . <URL> This is also a valid option , which will probably require you to pay an extra fee to the hotel , or at least tip the staff . The Man also mentions this on the linked page .
I think what you want is covered in the Frequently Asked Questions about Advance fares section of the National Rail Enquiries ( internal ) Knowledgebase ( iKB ) , which is n't available online officially . However , one of the nice members of Rail UK Forums <URL> in response to a <URL> Q25 - Can a passenger with an Advance ticket travel on an earlier connecting train ? A : Yes if it is non-reservable , no if it is reservable . An exception that benefits passengers : Where Virgin Trains East Coast is a connecting TOC from Stevenage via London and vice versa , e.g. " AP London-Reading " , or " VWC &amp; Connections " , Virgin Trains East Coast waives the need to travel on the exact Virgin Trains East Coast train booked on this relatively short journey Stevenage ↔ Kings Cross , even though retail systems will force a reservation to be made . So , it all depends on if seat reservations would 've been possible on the connecting train you want to take . If there are seat reservations possible , then an advanced ticket is only valid where you have a reservation on that service . Where no seat reservations are possible , a &amp; Connections ticket is Checking easily which trains can and ca n't have seats reserved is probably a different question ... If you ask staff at the station about a specific train they can tell you though !
Just to clarify first , travelling on rooftops happens on small train routes - local trains that stop at each and every small station , typically not run using electric engines , slow routes et al. . For most long distance travel , this will not be the case . The stereotypical image of people hanging out of train coaches used as filler shots in montages in documentaries on India is usually that of the Mumbai Suburban Railway network ( and boy is that crazy ) . India is a massive country and airfares are nowhere near cheap as of yet for common people to travel with their family . Consequently , railways rather than planes or buses carry a majority of the inter-city traffic . Families plan trips months rather than weeks in advance and it 's a crapshoot getting a reservation simply because there 's so much demand to meet ! Trying to book your tickets in advance is therefore very much advised . Many trains have ' unreserved ' coaches which you can buy ( extremely cheap ! ) tickets for on the day of travel itself and get on-board . However , these usually packed full - and I mean full . Sitting / standing space only . Very uncomfortable if you 're travelling long distance or overnight , as some journeys take 1-2 ( or even three ! ) days to complete . Having said that , some of my most memorable train journeys have been when I 've just gone to the station and gone in unreserved coaches . Slightly costlier these are ' second sleeper ' ( two bunks per column ) , ' second sitting ' ( seats only ) , and ' three-tier sleeper ' ( three bunks in one column ) . These are reserved coaches and you technically , you need to have a reservation to get on - which means you need to book at least a week or a fortnight in advance . At least , the reality is you have to book even earlier sometimes . However , the implementation of how strictly rules are enforced really depends on what part of India you are in . Do n't be surprised if a party with reservation for three climbs on-board with six people and they all share the space - it 's part of how train travel works in India ! And man , the amount of luggage they bring on ( technically there are rules on how much luggage per person you can take on-board but this is never enforced ) . What I 've see is in southern and western India , rules are implemented fairly strictly , i.e. , you need to have a reservation to get on . In northern , central and eastern India , it is far more common to see people who have bought tickets but not gotten a reservation climb on board anyway and share seating space with strangers , or perhaps pay a bribe to the ticket checker to ignore the fact you do n't have a reservation . So even if you do have a reservation , you might end up having to share some space anyway . As a foreigner though you will find most people will go out of their way to be friendly with you , even give up whole bunks for you to sleep while they sit . Doing this for ' guests ' is an essential belief many Indians hold . In any non air-conditioned or ' standard ' coaches , you will be travelling with some of poorest in Indian society and you 'll definitely be the centre of curiosity . Expect people to talk and be inquisitive about you , and do n't be freaked out by it . How easy it is to get a reservation is also a factor of how much you have to pay . It 's easier to get reservations in air-conditioned coaches or express trains that take shorter times , simply because most people go for the cheapest trains . For you , the price difference will probably be inconsequential between second sleeper in the fastest train and second sleeper in the slowest mail train , so go for the express trains whenever you can . Also , <URL> . Seats on Indian trains are allocated according to quotas : there 's a separate quote for senior citizens , women , armed forces personnel , ' general ' travellers , railway employees ... too many categories if you ask me ! You can always buy general category tickets , but if you pay for the ' foreigner quota ' ones then basically you 're just competing with other travellers rather than ' everyone else ' . Prices are higher though . On that note , you might also want to look at <URL> . An increasing amount of seats on any given train these days are reserved for ' tatkal ' quota tickets ( it means ' instant ' in Hindi ) . Bookings for these tickets open one day before the day of travel and you pay <URL> but if you 're the sort of person who plans last minute , these tickets are your best shot . They still run out fast so rather than trying to go to the station a day before to book , get up early in the morning and book them online at <URL> ( the official railway ticket booking site ) or <URL> / <URL> ( two travel search sites that are authorised to sell tickets on behalf of IRCTC ) . You can show a printout of your ticket or even have them delivered as an SMS . You pay cheaper prices than the foreign quota tickets , and you get to make spontaneous plans . Win win !
Let me answer my own question . I just got back from the trip and I found out that motorbike rental shops are abundant in Philippines ( but usually not advertised online ) . The price is usually about 600PHP ( 12 USD ) for one day . Even in rural places where there are no renting businesses it is easy to arrange for a rental with locals . I rented 6 different motorbikes throughout the country and had no problem whatsoever . <URL>
Most countries except for the UK , USA , Ireland , Mexico and Canada impose formal exit checks in the same way they impose entry checks . ( I am excluding passenger information being submitted to governments , by exit check , I mean all departing passengers queue up and an immigration officer looks at every outgoing passport . ) Therefore unless you are exiting one of those above-mentioned countries , there are formal exit controls . Travelling within the Schengen zone of course involves no passport control , because it is designed as one immigration zone , but when you leave the zone there is an exit control . There may be further exceptions ( please reply in the comments ) but actually I can think of none off the top of my head .
I 'm in Tbilisi for the past few days , so could check it here . I asked around in a few currency exchange places - and none of them accept foreign coins , lira or otherwise . One of the places suggested that TBC bank branches may be able to exchange coins , however I did n't manage to get to a bank . My advice would be to take the lira coins with you and head straight for a bank branch . While the exchange rate is n't as favourable as in independent exchange centres , at least you may stand a better chance .
Yes and no . Yes , because the 10 % deposit they charge indeed goes to Hostelbookers.com , not the hotel . ( See <URL> . ) No , because you , the backpacker , do n't pay any extra . You can pay ( say ) $ 20 to book via HW , in which case HW takes $ 2 and the hostel keeps $ 18 , or you can pay $ 20 to the hostel directly and they keep all of it . I presume HW insists on this as a condition of listing with them , precisely so that they can advertise " no booking fee " and get as much business as possible . In either case , you 're paying the same $ 20 , with no additional charges to you . Compare this with some airline booking engines like Webjet , where you pay the regular cost of the ticket plus the engine 's booking fee on top of that , and could have saved money by booking with the airline directly .
Travel is certainly possible . <URL> has 120,000 inhabitants and <URL> on the Argentinian side has 60000 inhabitants ( with <URL> ) . Advisable depends of course on what you want to do . Wikipedia has useful information on climate : <URL> , at 41 ° 28 'S , has 6.0 -- 12.7 ° C in May : Much further south , <URL> ( 53 ° 10 ' S ) has 1.0 -- 6.4 ° C in May : Cold is relative , but if you take appropriate clothing you should have no problems travelling in May . Disclaimer : I have never been to Patagonia , all information is from the world wide web .
From my station , a Super Off-Peak Day return is # 17.80 . Including a Travelcard makes it # 23.30 ( an increase of # 5.50 , to save you working that out ) . A one-day price-cap on Oyster is # 6.40 for Zone 1 and more for other zones . If you are actually travelling into London and out to Zone 6 on your paper train ticket , then the daily cap on Oyster for that usage is # 11.70 . <URL> Contactless payments also appear to have the daily cap . It 's on a per-card basis , though , so you need to make sure that you always use the same one . Using contactless cards means you do n't have to pay to get an Oyster card . But using contactless does also mean that you do n't get the benefit of a National Rail railcard , which can be loaded on to Oyster to reduce off-peak fares ( as well as reduce rail fares ) . To get an Oyster card , you need to pay a deposit . This is one-off and returnable , so may not be worth including in the calculations . It 's not easy to find <URL> ; it 's # 5 . You 'll also need to top it up with some money . None of it expires , though , and you get its current holding back with the deposit when you return the card . It 's possible that even with the built-in Travelcard you 're actually paying too much . My rail company adds # 5.50 , but two bus journeys only come to # 3 on Oyster . The bottom line : Whether you should use Oyster depends on how much of an increase there is between an ordinary bog-standard return and one with a built-in Travelcard on top , and whether that 's cheaper than the capped Oyster fares for the journeys you 're making .
Regarding Hostelworld their business model is not around getting payments for the hostels . They are basically an hostel directory , with some sugar on it ( they also collect user reviews and have a booking management system for the hostels ) . The value that you pay for reservation is actually earned by these websites as commission . In other words : the down-payment is not part of the hostel earnings at all . In fact , if you cancel , in most cases they keep the initial fee and the hostel looses the booking without any earning . Booking.com is a bit different as far as I know , but It 's not 100 % guaranteed that you actually pay the hostel through it . Even though full payment is available and even though you input your credit card . This will probably vary from hostel to hostel , but your credit card is collect and it may actually happen that you need to pay when arriving to the hostel . I once asked why and they told me at the hostel that they had access to my information but they did n't have any agreements with payment gateways . Another option would be to contact the hostel directly to know if they provide any means of secure payment in advance . In any case be very careful . Do n't give numbers over telephone line and assure yourself that whatever payment method alternative they give you is actually secure .
The Czech police website has a <URL> of the current legal situation , albeit only in Czech . Selling marijuana for whatever amount of money or services is a criminal offence , punishable for one to five years in prison : § 187 Nedovolená výroba a držení omamných a psychotropních látek a jedů ( 1 ) Kdo neoprávněně vyrobí , doveze , vyveze , proveze , nabízí , zprostředkuje , prodá nebo jinak jinému opatří nebo pro jiného přechovává omamnou nebo psychotropní látku , přípravek obsahující omamnou nebo psychotropní látku , prekursor nebo jed , bude potrestán odnětím svobody na jeden rok až pět let . Buying marijuana is n't a specific criminal or civil offense , however it obviously leads to possession . Possession of marijuana is a civil offense , as long as the quantity of the drug is for personal consumption . If one is found to be in violation of this law , they may be fined by up to 15000 ( ~ 550 ) . However it 's rare for the police to care about this particular misdemeanor , so most drug users are ignored . ( 1 ) Přestupku se dopustí ten , kdo j ) neoprávněně přechovává v malém množství pro svoji potřebu omamnou nebo psychotropní látku ( 2 ) Za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . a ) až d ) lze uložit pokutu do 3 000 Kč , za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . e ) a f ) pokutu do 5 000 Kč a zákaz činnosti do 1 roku , za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . g ) až i ) pokutu od 25 000 Kč do 50 000 Kč a zákaz činnosti od 1 do 2 let a za přestupek podle odstavce 1 písm . j ) a k ) pokutu do 15 000 Kč What quantity of marijuana is considered to be for personal consumption is not strictly defined , however the Supreme Court has recommended <URL> to be used as a cut-off . Smoking marijuana is n't defined as a separate offence , however it 's obviously impossible without possessing a certain quantity . Likewise there 's no separate offence for being intoxicated from marijuana . Growing marijuana is also illegal . Keeping up to 5 plants is a civil offense ( punishable by a fine of up to 15000 ) or a criminal offense if more than 5 plants are grown : Konopí lze pěstovat i doma , ale pouze do obsahu THC 0,3 % , což je uvedeno v zákoně č . 167/1998 Sb . o návykových látkách a jedná se o tzv . technické konopí . Pokud z něj následně budu vyrábět drogu marihuana , nejedná se zcela jistě o tzv . technické konopí s obsahem účinné látky THC do 0,3 % a tudíž se jedná buď o přestupek podle § 30 odst . 1 písm . k ) zák . č . 200/1990 Sb . o přestupcích , přičemž za malé množství se považuje rozsah do pěti rostlin . Šest a více rostlin pěstovaných s obsahem THC vyšším než 0,3 % je považováno za trestný čin podle § 285 trestního zákoníku č . 40/2009 Sb . A to platí pro jakékoliv pěstování , tedy i pro léčebné účely , pokud nejsem držitelem udělené licence Ministerstvem zdravotnictví ČR . Výroba návykové látky je trestným činem podle § 283 tr . zákoníku , bez ohledu na množství vyráběné drogy . Medical marijuana has been <URL> , however prescriptions from other countries are not valid . The conditions of getting a prescription from a local doctor are much stricter than in places like California , so it 's not something feasible for a tourist .
I 'm living in a high populated area ( at least for NZ 's standard ) in Auckland , but the question goes for the whole country . Yes . Except in exceptional circumstances , NZ tapwater is universally safe to drink . Standards exist to ensure that major contaminating organisms such as Protozoa and Cryptosporidium are removed or reduced to safe levels . Auckland water comes from two mains sources . West Auckland and some other parts of Auckland receive water from the Waitakere ranges catchment . Other areas receive water from the Hunua catchment and via pipeline from the Waikato river . The Waikato water is heavily contaminated at source and is treated to achieve requisite standards . Auckland water is among the " softest " in NZ and better than most available in major cities internationally . eg whereas car batteries usually specify distilled water for topping up it is safe to use Ak tap water for this purpose . There are variations between regions but these are mostly related to the nature of the water source . All NZ tap water is chlorinated . About half of all NZ tapwater is fluoridated , with exceptions where local action has seen removal of fluoride from the water . Some consider fluoridation a negative measure with respect to health . The majority opinion sees it as a positive . The debate continues . Drinking water standards for New Zealand : The following document was found by following a series of links starting at the one provided by Mark Mayo in his answer . This is a 136 page PDF which provides extensive details . <URL> This is part of the NZ Ministry of Health online library . NZ Ministry of Health library - water related items . A very large &amp; useful resource : <URL> . Only a few of the titles as a sample : Resources for the drinking-water assistance programme - numerous papers , including : Treatment options for small drinking-water supplies Sustainable management of small drinking-water supplies : Optimisation of small drinking-water treatment systems Sampling and monitoring for small drinking-water supplies Water safety planning for small community water supplies : step-by-step risk management guidance for drinking-water supplies in small communities . Annual report on drinking-water quality Estimation of the burden of water-borne disease in New Zealand International standards for drinking-water Guidelines for drinking-water quality ( World Health Organization . ) Development of drinking-water standards for New Zealand Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand 1995 Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand Guidelines for drinking-water quality : first addendum to third edition Drinking water quality : problems and solutions ( Gray , N. F. ) Provisional microbiological water quality guidelines for recreational and shellfish-gathering waters in New Zealand Community water fluoridation Cost benefit analysis of raising the quality of New Zealand networked drinking water Draft protocols for the public health grading of drinking-water supplies Pathogens and pathways , and small drinking-water supplies ... And many more ... . Chlorination : <URL> <URL> Fluoridation : <URL> <URL> The use of water fluoridation first began in New Zealand in Hastings in 1954 . A Commission of Inquiry was held in 1957 and then its use rapidly expanded in the mid 1960s . [ 96 ] New Zealand now has fluoridated water supplied to about half of the total population . [ 97 ] Of the six main centres only Christchurch [ 98 ] and Tauranga [ 99 ] do not to have a fluoridated water supply . In 2013 a Hamilton City Council committee voted to remove fluoride from late June 2013 . [ 100 ] A referendum was held during the council elections in October 2013 with approximately 70 % of voters voting for fluoride to be added back into the water supply . The mayor and most councilors have indicated that they will support the outcome of the referendum . [ 101 ] In a 2007 referendum about half of voters in the Central Otago , South Otago and the Southland Region did not want fluoridation [ 102 ] and voters in the Waitaki District were against water fluoridation for all Wards . [ 103 ] Ashburton and Greymouth also voted against fluoridation . [ 104 ] <URL> <URL> <URL>
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
There are some offers that start appearing on the web : A website called <URL> offers that ( it 's based in UK so be careful with currency of payment - see the <URL> to this question ) . <URL> offers flights and trains ( apparently it 's possible to book some outside France [ it 's a French travel agency ] but I can not guarantee it ) . In any way , as Mouviciel suggested , you can query trains in Europe from the <URL> / <URL> / <URL> providers but not book tickets out of these countries . You can have a lot of information on the trains ( like all stops ) and I use it sometimes for any train in Europe . It includes some local transit system . More generally , there is <URL> that will probably help you .
While there does n't seem to be hard evidence of airlines offering different prices bases on cookie/IP identification of site visitor , the possibility of this should n't be dismissed either , especially considering visitor tracking methods employed by advertisers on the internet , for example . Using Incognito mode on your browser , preferably coupled with an ad-blocking add-on , would be useful . VPN service might be of help too . ( Yes , I 'm a bit on the paranoid side , but that never hurted anyone )
I have been to Dhaka many , many times . In these times I stayed in two different hotels , they both had toilet paper just like any other hotel in the world . A quick google image search using the query <URL> revealed a lot of toilet photos for hotel toilets there , all of them seem to show toilet paper . Also , reading Dhaka hotel reviews in TripAvidor showed no such issue . Finally , you are free to ask for the toilet paper because most people who live in countries where they use water instead of toilet paper they also use toilet paper to dry after using the water . So no worries .
end question
start question
Is there an official New York City architecture tour ?
There 's at least a couple of options , actually . <URL> - they run art and architecture tours by design professionals - " a member of Guiding Architects , an international network for architectural guided tours by professionals . " <URL> - " an educational around-Manhattan architecture tour , hosted by architects and members of the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter ( AIANY ) . " - by yacht , nonetheless ! Finally , there 's a handy thread on <URL> about this - a couple of years back , to be fair , but with a few more handy links that might serve as back up options , including self-guided tours .
There is such a scheme . However , it does n't yet cover the city centre , which is why you ca n't ( yet ) find any docking stations in the main tourist areas The scheme is called <URL> , and is run in conjunction with the county council . Currently , all the docking stations are " up the hill " , in and around Headington . They 're around Oxford Brookes university , the hospitals and the like . A map of the stations can be found on the <URL> There 's currently no announced date for when the scheme may extend down the hill and into the main tourist areas in the city centre .
My initial thought was along the lines of ' but Maori are just part of the community ' - but while that 's true , there are still some options that are actually pretty awesome . And to time with the Rugby World Cup , <URL> - maraes being traditional community ancestral house or meeting venue . There are some good options out there , and I 'll list a couple of them now : <URL> - two marae on site , where you get two nights stay ( at least ) , cultural experiences , guided tours of the valley and surrounding forest , and an opportunity to see some of their arts and culture . <URL> - probably touristy , but the contents look like you really get the complete experience . From the initial Hongi ( nose touch ) , you 'll learn some language , go to a great marae , sleep over in a traditional meeting house ( optional , you can stay elsewhere for extra , but why would you ! ) , great Maori food - and importantly , you 'll share in making a Hangi - the traditional earth oven meal ( has to be seen and tasted to appreciate ! ) , learn about the Haka and try some of the traditional arts - weaving , carving , as well as learn about the history and culture . If I were a tourist in NZ , the latter one really would cover everything , although as a warning - like so many things in this vein , it 's probably a little touristy . Of course , the other option is to try couchsurfing and see if you can find a homestay on that ! However it 'd be more likely to be modern rather than traditional culture , of course .
Officially or even semi officially no . The plant is still owned by TEPCO so arranging it with them would probably give you a better access and safer tour if they choose to allow it . However , there are other options if you choose to consider them . There is a <URL> or a <URL> virtual tour . Or finally you can try to get a <URL> of the area but there are no contacts given so you may want to consider the repercussions of doing so and what kind of access you will be able to get remains a mystery .
No , this will not be a problem . You are permitted to do this . Often times , I have had a valid visa on my old passport but I am using my current passport for travel .
A two-year tour of <URL> ( 962 places ) is now available , offered by a British luxury company . By the way , it costs about 1 million pounds . It claims to cover all the sites if they are safely accessible . <URL> lists some of the stops .
While it is not exactly in old town it is n't far away from what I call tell on <URL> . The <URL> also has coordinates .
Those spots are called ' Liftershalte ' in Dutch , Wikipedia has a list : <URL> Do n't expect too much there are only 6 of those , it 's a bit of a gimmick more then anything else .
While there are many dedicated and local sites that you can find for concert listings , I find that <URL> usually has everything . Especially for large cities like New York , Toronto , and Montreal it will definitely cover everything , no matter how esoteric your music tastes are . And if you ' scrobble ' your listening to Last.fm , it can even help you narrow down the listings to artists you listen to more - because in any given month if you 're looking at the complete list you 'll be looking at dozen of entries for each week .
If you 'll be traveling on train from New Delhi , then you can use the cloak rooms and safety lockers available at New Delhi railway station . Most major stations have cloak rooms and lockers where you can leave your luggage , on payment of prescribed charges . This passenger amenity ensures safe custody of your luggage , giving you the freedom to spend a day or two as you desire . The process of depositing your luggage in the cloak room has been simplified for your convenience . All you have to do is to deposit the luggage duly locked , where upon a receipt will be given to you . This receipt , duly signed as an acknowledgement of having received your luggage , should be surrendered along with the prescribed charges at the time of delivery . Delivery of luggage will not be done without the surrender of your receipt . Pleaese ensure that all baggage/hold-alls/travel bags are locked securely . Otherwise , these may not be accepted by the railway personnel . You will have to produce your train ticket , and Identity card ( this is needed at many stations ) . There is a nominal hourly rate charge , which is calculated per piece of luggage . Your luggage must be locked . The <URL> for using Cloak rooms and Storage lockers : Duration Cloak Room Storage Locker For first 24 hours or part thereof Rs 15 per package Rs 20 For each subsequent 24 hours or part thereof Rs 20 per package Rs 30
Taxi fares in most Indian cities are regulated by the government . According to the <URL> , taxis in Delhi are supposed to cost : Rs 25 / - for first Kilometer [ sic ] ( upon downing the meter ) and thereafter Rs . 14.00 / - per Kilometer for Non-AC taxis and Rs . 16.00 / per Kilometer for AC taxis for every additional Kilometer ( ... ) Night Charges : 25 % of the fare ( 11:00 PM to 5:00 AM ) ( ... ) Waiting Charges : Rs 30 / - per hour or part thereof ( Subject to a minimum of 15 minutes stay ) ( ... ) Luggage : Rs . 10 / - shall be charged as extra luggage charges whereas the driver/operator shall not charge and [ sic ] money for a shopping bag or a small suitcase This means that in the daytime , five kilometers in an air-conditioned taxi should generally cost less than INR 130 . By the way , is the reason you want to know this to avoid getting cheated on the price ? In that case , consider getting a prepaid taxi from one of the counters near the arrivals hall at the airport . There is no bargaining there , they take the same rates from everyone , and you wo n't get cheated . In this case , you 're not supposed to pay anything directly to the driver , and there 's no need to tip either . Your alternative is going outside the airport and finding a ( hopefully metered ) taxi there . But you never know whether the meter has been tampered with , and you never know what sort of driver you get . So , there are many good reasons to get a prepaid taxi . It may end up costing you slighty more than a normal taxi ( assuming the latter has a functional , non-tampered meter ) , but it may also save you a lot of potential hassle .
The <URL> says Bus number 25 connects the Quimper Cornouaille Airport to the town centre of Quimper in less than 30 minutes . The bus station is located outside the airport . <URL> is the official site of the bus service , it seems french only but there is a nice route calculator which is n't hard to use and it helps to plan the trip in great detail .
When we got the passport for our daughter ( also German , then also < 1 year old ) we were told that we can have the photo in the existing passport updated for less than the price of a new passport . Children 's passports can also be <URL> and <URL> and a <URL> , and the time to appear in person - kid and both parents ( unless there is only one custodial parent ) , or kid , one parent and written permission and passport/ID of the other ) . Updating sounded optional the way our local office described it . Googling the problem turns up many personal reports of no problems occurring and even 7 year-olds travelling with essentially baby photos in their passport . We traveled when our daughter was three years older than on the photo and I only remember Turkish officials making friendly remarks about picture disparity ( as in " how cute " ) and nothing out of the ordinary when re-entering Germany . However , <URL> states ( 1 ) Ein Paß oder Paßersatz ist ungültig , wenn 1 . er eine einwandfreie Feststellung der Identität des Paßinhabers nicht zuläßt ... " A passport is invalid if it does not allow a flawless determination of the identity of the holder ... " , so there may be an interpretation of the law that supports the official you encountered . Also , <URL> : [ ... ] der Kinderreisepass [ kann ] bis zur Vollendung des zwölften Lebensjahres verlängert werden . Er ist mit einem aktuellen Lichtbild zu versehen . The final sentence states " The [ child 's passport ] must be equipped with an up-to-date photograph " , which occurs in the context of validity extension , but does not explicitly reference it .
I 'm living in a high populated area ( at least for NZ 's standard ) in Auckland , but the question goes for the whole country . Yes . Except in exceptional circumstances , NZ tapwater is universally safe to drink . Standards exist to ensure that major contaminating organisms such as Protozoa and Cryptosporidium are removed or reduced to safe levels . Auckland water comes from two mains sources . West Auckland and some other parts of Auckland receive water from the Waitakere ranges catchment . Other areas receive water from the Hunua catchment and via pipeline from the Waikato river . The Waikato water is heavily contaminated at source and is treated to achieve requisite standards . Auckland water is among the " softest " in NZ and better than most available in major cities internationally . eg whereas car batteries usually specify distilled water for topping up it is safe to use Ak tap water for this purpose . There are variations between regions but these are mostly related to the nature of the water source . All NZ tap water is chlorinated . About half of all NZ tapwater is fluoridated , with exceptions where local action has seen removal of fluoride from the water . Some consider fluoridation a negative measure with respect to health . The majority opinion sees it as a positive . The debate continues . Drinking water standards for New Zealand : The following document was found by following a series of links starting at the one provided by Mark Mayo in his answer . This is a 136 page PDF which provides extensive details . <URL> This is part of the NZ Ministry of Health online library . NZ Ministry of Health library - water related items . A very large &amp; useful resource : <URL> . Only a few of the titles as a sample : Resources for the drinking-water assistance programme - numerous papers , including : Treatment options for small drinking-water supplies Sustainable management of small drinking-water supplies : Optimisation of small drinking-water treatment systems Sampling and monitoring for small drinking-water supplies Water safety planning for small community water supplies : step-by-step risk management guidance for drinking-water supplies in small communities . Annual report on drinking-water quality Estimation of the burden of water-borne disease in New Zealand International standards for drinking-water Guidelines for drinking-water quality ( World Health Organization . ) Development of drinking-water standards for New Zealand Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand 1995 Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand Guidelines for drinking-water quality : first addendum to third edition Drinking water quality : problems and solutions ( Gray , N. F. ) Provisional microbiological water quality guidelines for recreational and shellfish-gathering waters in New Zealand Community water fluoridation Cost benefit analysis of raising the quality of New Zealand networked drinking water Draft protocols for the public health grading of drinking-water supplies Pathogens and pathways , and small drinking-water supplies ... And many more ... . Chlorination : <URL> <URL> Fluoridation : <URL> <URL> The use of water fluoridation first began in New Zealand in Hastings in 1954 . A Commission of Inquiry was held in 1957 and then its use rapidly expanded in the mid 1960s . [ 96 ] New Zealand now has fluoridated water supplied to about half of the total population . [ 97 ] Of the six main centres only Christchurch [ 98 ] and Tauranga [ 99 ] do not to have a fluoridated water supply . In 2013 a Hamilton City Council committee voted to remove fluoride from late June 2013 . [ 100 ] A referendum was held during the council elections in October 2013 with approximately 70 % of voters voting for fluoride to be added back into the water supply . The mayor and most councilors have indicated that they will support the outcome of the referendum . [ 101 ] In a 2007 referendum about half of voters in the Central Otago , South Otago and the Southland Region did not want fluoridation [ 102 ] and voters in the Waitaki District were against water fluoridation for all Wards . [ 103 ] Ashburton and Greymouth also voted against fluoridation . [ 104 ] <URL> <URL> <URL>
I found <URL> was quite useful for finding different tours from non main stream companies as well as all the regulars . You can choose tours that go through a specific country or ones based in just the country you select . There are also plenty of options to weed out those that are n't suitable , such as age , duration , price , trip type , group size , dates and operators .
There is ! But it 's slightly hidden , and you 'll probably miss it on your first attempt ... ( I certainly did ! ) Towards the north end of the station , not that far from the Eurostar checkin , are the toilets and a Bureau de Change . Hidden away in the wall between the two is the sole ATM in the station . As of June 2014 , it 's run by Societe Generale , and therefore does n't charge any extra fees for most people . If you look on the <URL> , and look around the area labelled " Hall 3 " , you 'll spy the logo for it . Basically , head for the Bureau de Change or Toilets , and look carefully between the two , and lo ye shall find the ATM of which ye searches ! If all else fails , at various points in the station are maps , which include a red " vous êtes ici " marker . Check them , and use those to narrow in on the ATM ( or whatever else it was you were looking for ) . Lille Europe station is something like 500m long , so you can end up walking rather a lot of you do n't spot it and keep going ...
It should n't be any worse than usual - it might even be a bit light ; Larchmont is a ways north of NYC proper , so I would n't expect significant NYE related backups there . One thing that you should be wary about however , is drunk drivers ! There will probably be more of them on the road than usual that night , so be cautious and alert . ( Similarly , there will probably be an above average number of police along the highway looking to catch said drunk drivers - and they wo n't bee averse to writing you a citation for any other infraction which they might observe . Drive safely ! )
I have yet to see anything similar to Social Flights in this part of the world , and even Social Flights appears to have closed down so I 'm not sure how viable a business model it would be . The only thing close that I 've seen in Australia is <URL> - a site where charter aircraft operators can list flights that would otherwise be flown empty ( eg : the return leg of a one way charter ) . Users of the site can choose to buy a seat or the entire aircraft at a substantially reduced cost . I have seen some of the costs involved in chartering an aircraft to fly trans-Tasman , and unless you require the flexibility of a charter then it 's likely to be more cost effective to book on a commercial flight - there 's plenty of them ( eg : up to 15 flights a day between Sydney and Auckland ) .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
While I 'm not in Tbilisi myself , my wife and children are at present in Georgia , having been in Tbilisi during the flood and the following week , although they now went to the summer house in the mountains . I have been speaking with them almost daily - so this is almost a first person account . Severe flooding did occur a couple of weeks ago in Tbilisi , resulting in both human and animal deaths and many injuries and physical losses . The long-term effect of it though is n't that great , from what I understand . The only long term " damage " as far as the tourism is concerned is the zoo . It was all but wiped out by the floods . It 's not open to the public at present . Other than that , the city continues operating just as it did before . There 's water , electricity and gas ; telephone network and internet are fine ; public transport runs fine ; all shops , restaurants , etc. are open ; museums are open according to their normal summer opening hours . Public paths along Kura are open , however parts of them are rather wet from rains that took place over the last week or so . Naturally , the aftermath is still visible in Mziuri park and the Heroes Square , as well as throughout the city , but all these places are open to the public . So , all in all , it 's still a great place to visit . I myself will be flying there at the end of July - but I have family there , so floods or no floods , I 'd have to go . If you 're interested in any specific venue or place , it should be easy to find that out .
end question
start question
Using a quad-band phone in Japan ?
All modern " 3G " and " 4G " phones work in Japan with your foreign SIM card . You will not have problems . While there are phone bands in Japan that do not exist abroad and while older GSM phones will also not work in Japan , as long as you can use 3G or 4G on your phone , it will work in Japan . I have been in Japan just a week ago with a group of people from abroad , and Nexus , HTC and iPhone devices all work there , for data AND for voice .
As you mention , your passport has no issue with immigration to Japan , then it just comes down to what you 're doing there . You 'll be able to show you have an exit flight from Japan , so that 's fine , and that you want to just leave the airport for a few hours . Indeed , I did this exact thing in June - I had a few more hours than you , so I had the day in Tokyo , but still - it 's perfectly acceptable and common to pop out . Depending on the time it takes you to get through customs , however ( immigration took me aside for extra questioning , still not entirely sure why ) , you might be pressed for time . Once you get out , go up to the 3rd ( ? ) floor - there 's like a Japanese ' village ' of restaurants inside the international terminal , or on the ground floor , a cheap 7-11 style place if you just want a backpacker-price meal . Otherwise , if you have time , the Monorail will get you into town pretty promptly and cheaply - 30ish minutes to Hamamatsucho ( check though , as there 's an express monorail as well ) .
Taxis cross state borders all the time . Probably half of Hoboken , New Jersey takes the taxi home from New York City on any given weekend night , and New York has some of the most restrictive taxi laws in the country . Taxi licensing is mostly local , at the city or county level . A cab driver is only permitted to pick up passengers from a jurisdiction where they are licensed to do so . So , if you are in Dyer , you can almost certainly get a Dyer taxi to take you to Benton , but you may or may not be allowed to have a Benton taxi come pick you up in Dyer . If you cross a city or county line ( much less a state line ) , expect to cover the cost for the driver 's return to his own jurisdiction in some way . A New York City taxi will charge a surcharge just for leaving New York City -- and a metered rate is not possible at all for going to New Jersey ; you must negotiate a flat fare with the driver ( as well as pay tolls for the round trip ) . Washington , D.C. cabs charge a special rate for mileage beyond the District of Columbia . Since this is a rural area , you may even be required to pay the full fare of a return trip . The taxi company will inform you of any special requirements for crossing county or state lines when you call to arrange your ride .
<URL> is exactly what you need . It meshes Google Maps with a list of hotels . You can filter by price , amenities , hotel chains ( including B&amp;B s ) . You can get heatmaps for food , tourism , shopping , nightlife , and vice . Runner up : <URL> . Similar to Hipmunk , with a more conventional list of options . Also see these B&amp;B and Hostel sites with map views : <URL> : Vacation rentals , private rooms , and sublets by the night . <URL> : Hostels
Yes you can enter Cyprus with your valid Schengen visa as long as you have used the visa before to enter a Schengen country . From <URL> of the embassy of Cyprus in Finland ( Could n't find the page of the Embassy in Saudi ) , also the embassy in Russian <URL> : Third country nationals , holders of a valid Schengen visa ( type : double or multiple entry ) , who have already entered the Schengen area in accordance with the terms upon which their Schengen visa was issued , may travel to Cyprus without a Cypriot national visa and stay in Cyprus for a period equal to the remainder of the time for which the Schengen visa is valid .
Not quite -- the bees are not eaten , but it is possible to eat their larvae ( はちのこ / 蜂の子 hachinoko , lit . " bee children " ) . Here 's the <URL> ( in Japanese , but with pictures ) . This is by no means a common dish ( in fact I 'd never heard of it before I started looking into this ! ) , but apparently in the Tono region of Gifu prefecture , more specifically the towns of Ena and Nakatsugawa , it 's considered a <URL> . The most famous dish is hebomeshi ( ヘボめし ) , which is basically rice with bee larvae mixed in : And there 's a place called , appropriately enough , Hachinosu ( はちのす , " Bee 's Nest " ) that will serve you a full course of not only bee larvae rice but pickled grasshoppers ( イナゴの佃煮 inago no tsukudani ) , raw horsemeat ( 馬刺し basashi ) and more for & yen ; 1800 : Address Gifu-ken , Kani-gun , Mitake-chō , Nakagiri 1133-1 ( 岐阜県可児郡御嵩町中切１１３３の１ ) , open daily except Fridays from 7:30 AM . Do tell us if you end up going , I hear it 's the bee 's knees ! And an important disclaimer : while you 'll certainly get bees there , they may not be giant sparrow bees . The only reference I could find to specifically giant sparrow bees being eaten was this <URL> claiming that they 're used for a dish called bee noodles ( 蜂そうめん hachi-somen ) in the northern mountains of Miyazaki , Kyushu , but the only other references to this dish seem to be talking about the TV show ...
Not unless you are trying to rent one during a busy holiday Generally as long as the company has cars to rent , you can rent them without a reservation . Stock usually runs low during holidays , long weekends and local festival days and as such this is a time where you should reserve a car . Renting in the greater Tokyo area is usually painless but does require you have either a Japanese Drivers licence for the type of car you intend to drive ( ie . Automatic licence for Automatic , Manual licence for Manual ) or an International Drivers Licence . Some companies also expect you to get a more comprehensive insurance policy if you are on an IDL . Also , reserving a car guarantees you get whatever car you have chosen ( rather than just whatever is available on the day ) , as well as being able to chose certain plans and get online discounts with some companies . Both myself foreigner on a Japanese Licence , a foreign friend on an IDL and a Japanese friend have rented on the spot before and this is unlikely to change in the lead up to the 2020 Olympics .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
According to the <URL> , the phone has two versions : GSM 900 / 1800 GSM 850 / 1900 - US version Obviously you have the EU version ( GSM 900/1800 ) which will not work with the US networks which are ( GSM 850/1900 ) . For more information : <URL> .
October in Japan is going to be a lot like October in Europe and America , namely autumn . In Tokyo , <URL> , mostly clear skies but occasional rain , beautiful autumn foliage . Personally , late September/early October is one of my favorite seasons to be in Japan , second only to cherry blossom season around April . Not too hot , not too cold , and off-peak so not too many tourists . But if you 're expecting beach weather , then sorry , you 'll only find that at the southernmost tip around Okinawa ... and since Japan is a long and skinny country , there might already be a dusting of snow up in northern Hokkaido . There 's one catch though : October is the tail end of typhoon season in Japan , which could make a cruise pretty unpleasant ( and explains the high precipitation readings on the chart linked to above ) . However , the peak is Aug-Sep and the typhoons usually hit the Pacific side of the islands , not the Japan Sea side you 'll presumably be sailing on , so odds are pretty high you 'll be OK .
It 's common in public toilets , yes , especially those located in unattended locations such as public parks and small train stations . On the other hand , toilets in stores such as convenience stores or shopping malls , or in large train stations , virtually always have paper ( you may even get lucky and have a " washlet " ) . A related and somewhat more common issue is that the washbasin area does n't always have hand soap .
No , Tokyo is not a disaster area during golden week . However , flights out of Tokyo may well be more expensive , crowded , or already sold out on the first weekend , and queues may be longer . Another factor is that on the national holidays , some ( not all ) stores will be closed down , as will be banks ( and that includes ATMs in most cases ) . Possibly also some museums or other attractions ( Tsukiji fish market is closed , I think ) . But most tourism-related things will be open , since golden week is also used by many Japanese people to visit Tokyo as tourists . All in all , the main reason not to choose plan B is the flight being unavailable or more expensive . If that 's not a problem , go for it .
For cellphone networks , there are two major standards : <URL> and <URL> ( Japan being one of the major exceptions if I remember correctly ) . CDMA only found wide acceptance in the US ( licensing issues , primarily ; major networks running on this being Verizon and Sprint . You should check with your operator ( if it runs a CDMA network ) but there 's a good chance the country you 're travelling to wo n't have any networks running on this standard ; even if there are then roaming agreements could be lacking . GSM is the more widely-adopted standard ; practically every mobile phone operator outside of the US runs on this . In the US , AT&amp;T and T-Mobile are GSM networks . Still , even if you have a GSM phone , there is one thing you need to watch out for . Even though the standard is the same , GSM mobile operators in different parts of the world use a different frequency bands . Again , the difference is mostly USA ( 850 / 1900 MHz range ) vs Rest of the World ( 900 / 1800 MHz range ) . Here 's <URL> . Having said that , most modern phones support multiple GSM frequency bands . If your phone technical specification says it is ' tri-band ' or ' quad-band ' then you 're good because out of the four ranges in use , at least one in each region will be covered . That 's the technical part . In addition to that , as Ginamin pointed out in his answer , you might need to check with your operator whether the phone needs to be ' unlocked ' to allow you to insert a local SIM and/or whether you have to subscribe to a roaming plan .
This is feasible without any problem . Malta has a very dense bus network , operated by <URL> . It provides the usual local connections , airport transfers and in some places even night buses . It 's straightforward to use . You can use the <URL> , to get an idea of the available options . The price of a single ticket is 2.20 EUR , and <URL> . Having a car is not so practical , it can even be cumbersome . Gozo can be easily reached <URL> . The price for a single trip is 4.65 EUR . <URL> also operates a bus network on Gozo .
Not quite sure why would you need a special device . Anveo ( which I use ) or voip.ms and a VoIP app on your smartphone/tablet/laptop ( I am using Zoiper ) will do just fine . A Canadian number costs less than two dollars . I use this setup both inside and outside of Canada and it works .
Generally The simple answer is : you ca n't ... from a normal phone . Toll-free numbers are specific to the phone exchange system of a particular country and thus when calling from a VOIP phone provider like Skype or calling from a different country 's network the call wo n't get routed through correctly . Your alternative to insist on asking for the version of the toll-free number with an international dialling code . In most cases , toll-free numbers are simply forwarding call internally with a phone exchange and by changing the prefix , you get the real number . In the UK for instance we have <URL> which provides listings of direct numbers . North America A more complicated answer is that for countries under the <URL> such as <URL> they all have a common numbering system and toll-free calls will be supported . This may or may not always work depending on whether the toll-free number owner allows such calls : see <URL> . Skype <URL> . This covers US and UK among major countries , which should cover a wide range of financial , airline , and travel assistance numbers . Manually change the country to the one you 're dialling to from the drop-down list in Skype 's phone pad if you do n't want to type in a number with international dialling code .
Short : Very few problems are likely when taking ' street photos ' in China in most cases in most areas with even half sensible behaviour . People in China tend to be more likely to be happy with strangers taking their photo than do people in the West - presumably white face + large camera = tourist provides ample reason :-) . Parents and people minding children are generally substantially happier about having their children 's photos taken than are people in my country . ( I 've had the occasional problem here and about none in China ) . In all cases due care and general openness is advised but I 've essentially had no problems with this . Some people in China are shy - not unexpectedly , and some older people want no part of it , but in most cases people are open to being photographed or even eager or amused . Treat authority figures with due care , except , perhaps , in Tian An Men Square . More ... The " documentary " aspect of your question has essentially no impact on the taking of the photos . Depending on possible political aspects the authorities may or may not care , but the subject of your photography are not liable to concern themselves with your overall motivations . I 'll comment briefly on political and authority related matters first and then on what you actually asked about :-) . As uncovery said , there are areas where on occasion the authorities frown on photos of certain sorts or of photos at all , but usually you can expect to be ignored or treated benignly by the authorities . Xinjian province has a somewhat similar background to Tibet but is far less known of in the West . I have wandered the streets of Urumqi , Xinjian 's largest city , with no attention at all from authorities . During the subsequent ' unrest ' all communications with the outside world was very tightly controlled and photography would have been much more risky . Things have since returned to ' normal ' and sensible behaviour probably carries no risks . Tibet is always more sensitive - if you want an undisturbed trip then no photos should ever show activities which involve any hint of protest or unrest . A beautiful lake runs North-South in the centre of Beijing . A road crosses the centre . Unbeknown to me the southern half is ringed by restricted military land . I found this out by taking photos from the middle bridge :-) . There was a guard post at the end of the bridge which I had not seen ... . On that occasion I was simply given a stern warning and sent on my way . Taking photos of policemen ( &amp; women ) in general is probably unwise . In Tiananmen square you seem to be be able to do so with impunity ( for some reason :-) ) but you get some nasty looks . <URL> Tian An Men square policeman : Do n't try this at home / YMMV / ... That said ... Street photographY I have visited China about 15 times in the past 5 years , travelled widely , and taken literally tens of thousands of photos there in about every conceivable situation . I mainly use an SLR and these have increased in physical size over time . My cameras do not quite match the excessively annoying size of a full frame EOS1xxMkyy or D3 or ... , but my recent Sony A77 and prior A700 DSLRs with various lenses probably look as professional and imposing as any other DSLR to most subjects . In the overwhelming majority of cases there are no problems at all taking " street photos " with even half sensible behaviour by the photographer . In most situations the Chinese are more accommodating and accepting of photography than in many western countries . They are generally happy for you to take photos of children and usually pleased that you are interested . In many cases I take candid photos and then may follow them up with requests to take further photos . In such cases I show people what I have taken already and in borderline cases this usually forms a bridge into having people allow me to take further photos . In some cases where a stall holder or person on the street seems more shy rather than annoyed I find that showing them photos taken of other people and scenes in the same area often results in being given permission . Where it seems useful I ask people for email addresses so that I can send them copies of their photos . Most younger Chinese people have " QQ " email addresses and older ones may have or have a relative or friend with one . The QQ system has addresses of the form QQnnnnn ... where nnnn is numeric . ( There are other email systems too but QQ seems fairly universal ) . My answer to this Stack Excahnge Photography question , <URL> applies as much to my Chinas photography as elsewhere and may be worth a look . Here are a few " people " photos from China . Some taken with permission ( very obviously ) , some as candids . eg the photos of someone buying food in uptown Shanghai ( top left ) could not have possibly been taken if I 'd introduced myself first . And most people would not understand afterwards why the old-white-guy would want such a photo if I showed them afterwards . The workmen posing ( bo
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
This depends on which locals you want to speak to . If you 're in the cities , you should have no trouble at all speaking Spanish to practically anyone . If you venture out into the country side , Spanish is more the trade language , and several local languages are used more commonly . Even in such places you should have no trouble using Spanish to conduct business , but if you are invited to a local 's home , you may have a difficult time discussing personal family matters using only Spanish . Note this <URL> : The main reason that indigenous languages and cultures have been able to survive here is the rugged terrain , which isolate communities . So the answer to your question : Can you get by with only Spanish , is a resounding yes . If you look hard enough , though , in the right places , you will find people with whom you can not communicate at all .
Go for the latter : get an unlocked smartphone and a local data plan . By far the cheapest . Also , you could buy the phone in Thailand . That being more of a developing country , you 'd be surprised how cheap ( mostly Chinese , but not only ) smartphones can be . You should easily be able to get a basic smartphone for under 100 USD . Even the low end Samsungs should n't set you back more than 130 USD . Getting a data plan in the US is not a good idea . Roaming charges on data tend to be very unreasonable .
end question
start question
Multiple-entry Schengen visa , possible issues on Estonian border control ?
I assume you have Schengen Visa Type ( C ) , which is valid for short stay for : Tourist Business You can use your visa as a tourist , there are no separate Schengen visas for business and tourists .
One option you have is to find a shopping mall or a supermarket that offers a photo booth . For instance , in the UK there is a chain called <URL> that sets up such booths in major shopping areas , and where you can get ' correct size ' pictures printed for visas . On a per picture basis this is an expensive option but nothing beats its ease-of-use . A more DIY method is to use an online service - there are many ; <URL> being one of the major ones - where you can upload a digital picture taken by yourself and then it formats the picture into the correct size for a passport / visa for a given country as multiples on standard photo printing sizes that are supported by photo print shops . You can either get this printed directly by them ( this is how they make money ) or just download the file and take it to a print shop at your convenience . The site also provides guidance on photo requirements ( such as glasses on/off , etc ) .
Your visa is generally valid for trips to France and other countries in the Schengen area . Provided it is a multiple-entry visa and you already used it for its main purpose , going to France is perfectly fine , even if the purpose is different . It 's not likely to come up but it 's best to have all the documentation you would need for a fresh visa application ( itinerary , proof of financial means , accommodation , return ticket ... ) with you when crossing the border so that if there is any doubt about your trip , you can easily show that you still fulfil all the requirements to visit the Schengen area . If it was a single entry visa or you had n't use it before , it 's more delicate because it might appear as if you lied to get a business visa that you always intended to use for other purposes . But that 's not an issue in your situation as you would already have used the visa for its main purpose . See also <URL> for all the details .
Visa Waiver Program visitors must have Electronic System for Travel Authorizations ( ESTA ) approval prior to travel and have visited the United States on at least one occasion after 2008 . The answer to your question appears to be that you can use the gates with a new ESTA , or even a new passport . Source : <URL>
Since each of these countries would unilaterally decide whether they recognize Schengen visas and under which conditions , I do n't think it 's possible to find an official list anywhere . I am marking this answer as " community wiki " so that we can come up with a list : Bulgaria , Romania , Croatia and Cyprus ( all EU members ) have rules modelled on those of the Schengen area and allow holders of some types of Schengen visas to visit the country , see <URL> , <URL> and previous questions on this site , e.g. . <URL> Official sources are hard to come by but Albania apparently allow holders of multiple-entry Schengen visa who have already used their visa at least once to visit one of the countries of the Schengen Area , see <URL> and <URL> . Turkey provides some concessions to those that normally need visas . If you normally need a visa for Turkey , and you hold a Schengen visa - you may be able to avail the new electronic " e-visa " system . The list of countries whose citizens can avail this exemption <URL> . <URL> , multiple-entry Schengen visa holders can visit Bosnia and Herzegovina for 7 days . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Macedonia for 15 days ( with some caveats ) . <URL> , Schengen visa holders can visit Serbia for 90 days . <URL> confirms that information . <URL> and <URL> , Mexico offers a visa exemption for 180 days to those holding a valid visa issued by " Canada , Japan , USA , United Kingdom or a Schengen Member State " ( this may be further restricted by nationality ) . <URL>
May be you will be interested in this data . It 's old by still shows dynamic how easy is getting visa C in the Schengen countries . Portugal and Netherlands looks like the best choises . Data from here : <URL> <URL> is also file with statistic of 2010 . You may see data of issued visas by you nationality . Make your own research to choose right country .
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
My hostel owner here in Albania assures me I can walk across . Last night I walked across the southernmost border crossing from Albania to Greece on the Konispol-Sagiada route with absolutely no problems at 8pm Albanian time , 9pm Greek time .
As you know , regular German type D visas are not restricted to Germany but also allow the holder to <URL> ( some visas or other documents restricted to a single country do however exist , e.g. for asylum seekers ) . It 's not required to enter the Schengen area through Germany either . Article 5 of the Schengen Borders Code even includes several provisions explicitly referring to this possibility ( my emphasis ) : For intended stays on the territory of the Member States of a duration of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period , which entails considering the 180-day period preceding each day of stay , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : [ ... ] ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement ( 18 ) , except where they hold a valid residence permit or a valid long-stay visa ; So you can cross any external border , your long-stay visa can replace the Schengen visa you would otherwise need . Furthermore , the regulation also includes this : By way of derogation from paragraph 1 : ( a ) third-country nationals who do not fulfil all the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 but who hold a residence permit or a long-stay visa shall be authorised to enter the territory of the other Member States for transit purposes so that they may reach the territory of the Member State which issued the residence permit or the long-stay visa , unless their names are on the national list of alerts of the Member State whose external borders they are seeking to cross and the alert is accompanied by instructions to refuse entry or transit ; This means that even if you do not meet the usual conditions for a visit to the Schengen area ( e.g. you ca n't prove you have enough money or health insurance ) , you should at least be allowed to transit in Amsterdam . Note that the visa must however be valid so you have to check if the period of validity on the visa sticker itself allows you to enter early . Finally , some countries ( do n't know about Germany ) require some long-stay visa holders , including students , to complete some formalities ( e.g. medical check-up or some form of registration ) within a specified time of entering . Presumably the delay runs from the date on your entry stamp . To the extent that it 's the case in Germany , it would mean that you have one week less to take care of that .
Visas are issued for a specific purpose , and the type and duration of the visa issued are based on the purpose that you requested it for . The actual conditions described on the visa form one part of the conditions and intent behind the visa , but they are not the only conditions that apply . So in this case , the conditions on the visa are that you can stay for up to 30 days on each visit , and can have multiple visits . However such a visa would not have been issued with the intent that you could basically live in the country - if that was the expected intent then a different type of visa would have been issues . Why this matters is related to one of the most misunderstood areas of visa - a visa does NOT give you the right to enter a country , even if you are fully applying by the conditions of the visa ( stated conditions or otherwise ) . At the end of the day , the immigration officials at the border always have the last say as to whether you will be allowed into the country . If they believe that your visa has been obtained fraudulently ( including mis-representing the time you intended to stay in the country ) , if they believe that you are not entering the country in line with the terms of your visa , if they believe you are entering the country to commit a crime , or for any other reason , they can deny you entry to the country at the border . So whilst you may have a visa that states multiple entries up to 30 days , each time you re-enter the country the immigration official will look at your history of entries/exits from the country , and after a number of 30 days in/7 days out entries they will almost certainly begin to suspect that you are breaking the conditions of the visa - they might think that you are in the country to work , that you are residing there , or any number of other things that would be against the conditions of that type of visa . They might even simply suspect ( correctly ! ) that your repeated short trips outside of the country are " visa runs " ( trips with a sole purpose of extending visa validity ) which are generally covered in immigration laws as not being allowed . The second time you enter the country odds are this wo n't be a problem . But sometime after that - well before you make it even close to the 1 year mark - someone is going to spot the pattern , and put you on a plane back where you came from . Nobody is going to be able to tell you if that 's going to occur on the 3rd visit or the 10th as it will depending on a number of factors including the exact type of visa , the particular immigration official , the answers you give to the questions they ask you , and countless other things - but it will happen eventually . Immigration law is something it 's best not to test the limits off . The results ( ranging from cancellation of a visa to be banned from entry to a country for up to 10 years or more ) just is n't worth the risk !
Refusals ( and issued visa ) are recorded in a database called the Visa Information System , <URL> . Hungary will know about it but is free to make its decision independently , they do n't have to ask Poland for permission and there is no reason for you to apply there first . If you change your passport before it expires , not only will they still know that you were refused a visa ( based on your name and date/place of birth or , possibly , your biometrics ) but they will also notice you tried some deception tactics and that could weigh heavily against you . Also , they will obviously know about the grounds for the refusal . Failure to adequately document your financial means for example would not be too bad if you remedied the situation in the meantime . But fraud would be very bad , no matter what you do afterwards . For completeness , note that there is also another database called the Schengen Information System with completely different rules ( you wo n't end up in there merely because an application was refused but only for more serious violations ) . If there is a notice about you in the SIS , you have to contact the country that put a notice in the database and appeal the ban to ( have a chance to ) get a visa . A visa application can not override such a ban and , legally speaking , another country can , at most , issue a " limited territorial validity " visa but not a Schengen visa ( and , mostly , they will issue nothing , it 's very easy for them : just a box to check without any further verification or need to justify anything ) . Entries in the SIS have various automatic expiration delays but I think that a country can always reactivate an entry to keep it in the database as long as they wish , based on their national rules .
The purpose of your visit fits tourism ( this is the what you should tick on the application form ) . You will need to supply : Proof of funds Invitation letter from the conference . Airline reservation Hotel reservation ( in your name ) for the period of your stay . In addition to the normal requirements ( photo + application form + insurance + passport ) . Your passport should be valid for 6 months after you intend to return . You are a high risk applicant - therefore you should demonstrate significant ties to your home country before applying . There is only one short stay temporary visa ( the " Schengen visa " ) . The difference is the documentation you need to provide for the application which depends on the purpose of your trip - but the visa you get ( for short trips ) is the same .
Since the UK is not part of the Schengen Area , I do n't see how this would be necessary ( and why you would want to do that anyway ) . If the country where you are applying for a Schengen visa thinks that they are interested in whether you have applied for other visa before , then they have internal ways to do that . They do n't need to ask you . There is the Schengen Information System ( SIS ) which in part handles such queries automatically . The UK as an EU member state participates in the SIS and exchanges information with other EU states , even though it is not part of Schengen ( and therefore can not grant Schengen visa ) .
On the website of the Lao embassy in Paris , you can find on the <URL> a document on the <URL> . On this document , you can see for each entry point whether it delivers visas ( " Visa à l’arrivée " ) . For the border post of Phou Kue ( Attapeu ) / Beu Y ( Quangtoum ) , the document says it delivers visas on arrival . This seems authoritative , but there is no date on the document and the download page mentions a last update in January 2013 , so I have no idea if this is still valid ( the <URL> does not link to the right Lao embassy website ) .
I have arrived in Sweden and can now answer my own question . Even though I had insurance from my employer , I did not have any supporting documents . So I bought a 60 day travel-cum-medical insurance for me and my wife . We crossed the border control without any problems . The border guard did not ask anything . To sum up , even though its mandatory to have an insurance when travelling to EU , in practice border guards rarely ask for proof . Anyway , having insurance is always a good idea . If not long term , choose a limited period insurance which will cover you till you get settled in the new place .
In general , it does not make sense to appeal for something like that . Whether an appeal is likely to succeed depends on the specifics of your situation and it 's not a good idea to discuss all this on this site . You would need help from a Greek legal professional ( which is presumably neither cheap nor easy to get from Abu Dhabi ) to get an informed opinion about this . But even if you have solid grounds for an appeal , it can take a ( very ) long time and it 's impossible to do without knowing the local language and legal system ( that 's always true but the letter you received even states as much in the last paragraph ) . Additionally , the letter also suggests that lodging an appeal by post without formally hiring a lawyer is simply not possible in Greece ( it is in other Schengen countries ) , which makes any appeal more expensive than a fresh application , even if you know Greek and feel confident drafting it yourself . So in practice you are not going to quickly get satisfaction and save your trip that way . You will only receive an answer several months from now , long after your bookings have expired and your holidays are over . At this point , there wo n't even be a valid premise for your application ( it makes no sense to issue a visa for a trip supposed to take place in the past ... ) An appeal only really makes sense if you have strong legal arguments and no hope to succeed in another application ( and of course for long-stay visas but that 's another thing entirely ) . Alternatively , you could still lodge a fresh application . Even taking the fees , documents , etc. into account it would still be much cheaper than an appeal and definitely quicker . But only do that if you think there is something you could add to make your case stronger ( detailed itinerary , bookings , etc. ) without making you look unreliable ( do n't make up a story ) , otherwise you risk getting a new refusal and damaging your credibility for the future .
I spoke to multiple immigration lawyers and consultants and the consensus was that the consulate employee was poorly trained in US visa policy , as it was my US visa status that mattered , not the visa stamp . So I went back to the embassy to try again at a later date . This time , there was a different employee , and now , two weeks later , I have in my hands a Schengen visa .
No , there is no need to pass through immigration control in this circumstance . Simply follow the purple signs to the new terminal . The inter-terminal bus system is before immigration control . See also : <URL> . If you are flying BA then you are in Terminal 5 for both flights , and there will be no need to use the buses .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
When I landed at Vic Falls the options I was given is $ 30USD for single entry or $ 45USD for double entry . The prices were the same for the Americans , Swiss and Germans I spoke to in the queue . A point to note , there was one immigration officer charging people for a double entry and placing a single entry visa in there passport and writing them a receipt for a double so it pays to check the visa as its going in .
end question
start question
Why does Australia have little in the way of visa free travel ?
If you ignore the semantics of " Visa " v 's " pre-approved Visa-like thing " , then Australia is generally no different ( or frequently better ) than many other major countries . For example , comparing Australia , the US , and Canada ( based on their new regulations starting March 15 , 2016 ) . Citizens allowed without any form of pre-approval : Australia - 1 country ( New Zealand ) Canada - 1 country ( US ) US - 2 countries ( Canada + Bermuda ) Citizens allowed after electronic pre-authorization : Australia - 45 countries ( eVisitor + ETA ) Canada - ~ 50 countries ( eTA ) US - 38 countries ( ESTA/VWP ) Citizens allowed apply for visa electronically : Australia - all but 4 countries Canada - All countries ( ? ) US - 0
It really depends on the shop location and airport layout . If the duty-free shop is only in the international departures zone then they probably do n't set up a tax-in/tax-out process in their cash register . Therefore they have no process to sell with tax . If the shop is in a mixed departures zone or public space then they have a gate delivery process and sometimes do have a tax-in option at the register . Copenhagen airport does - I went to buy some small things there , they asked for passport and boarding pass , I told them where I was going and they just rang it up with Danish tax .
If you are an Indian passport holder then you do need to apply for a transit visa . You can <URL> and hand them in at an Australian Visa Office in your country .
Star Alliance does n't have a loyalty program . The individual airlines within the alliance each have their own loyalty programs , and each program has it 's own criteria/promotions/etc . You would need to check with the individual program that you 're a member of to see if they have any such promotions , but at least the few that I 'm aware of do NOT have anything like you 've described .
If you arrive early enough you can park at the visitor center . But it is often full before 10 am . So , if it is full , you 'll have to backtrack into town : The National Park Service has a <URL> which you may be able to use . Some of these are standalone park and ride facilities ; others are sections of hotel or local business parking lots , or adjacent to them . In these cases be sure to follow the Park &amp; Ride signs ( which unfortunately are fairly small and can be hard to spot ) and park in the marked areas . This map also shows where the <URL> stops . The Park &amp; Ride sign looks like this : There is also street parking on parts of Zion Park Blvd. , but do n't count on finding an open space .
The cheapest option to get to the city is to take an MTA bus directly from the airport . You can transfer for free to one other bus line or , if you use a prepaid MetroCard " gold " , to the subway . The fare is currently $ 2.75 , but depending on which MetroCard you buy , you may spend slightly less . JFK is served by five MTA bus lines , all of which have a free transfer to at least one subway line . Three of the five stop at terminal 5 : the Q3 , the Q10 , and the B15 . The others do not stop at any passenger terminal . You 'll most likely land at the wrong terminal , so you 'll have to take the AirTrain to the bus stop , but this is free of charge . Plan on at least an extra hour for this trip , compared to taking the AirTrain to Jamaica or Howard Beach . I think most people 's time is worth more that $ 5 an hour , but maybe you have additional factors to consider . See <URL> for the Queens bus map .
That refers specifically to the Australian Document of Identity , which is a complicated and obscure legal fudge primarily intended to let people travel to Norfolk Island without a passport : <URL> Norfolk Island is an Australian territory that , until very recently , was largely self-governing and excluded from most Australian taxes and benefits . The government needed a way to track people traveling there , but could n't insist on a passport ( since it 's not a foreign country ) , hence the DOI .
I see from the comments that you 're from Bangladesh . As there is a centre in Bangladesh where you can take the exam ( see <URL> ) with three sittings this year , it would seem likely you 've not convinced the visa official why you need to enter the UK . If what you 're actually taking is PACES , while you ca n't take that in Bangladesh there are other centres closer to you - you probably have n't justified why you ca n't take it in a closer location to you , such as India No need to look for any anti-Muslim policy - there just seems to be no good reason to travel to the UK from Bangladesh to take that exam .
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
I have done an internet search in Dutch , I did not find the ' do not lean against buildings ' for Rotterdam , nor in general neither for this one event . In the Netherlands it is quite common for cities to have special rules ' with status of law ' for special events . The Ingress event is quite big and the city officials will likely not want it to get out of hand . I do not expect them to arrest people who lean against the buildings , but they might have police or security crews in the streets and ask people to move on if the crowds seem to be overwhelming for the street or blocking the normal activities for the street ( like shopping ) .
I have an APEC card . Mine does not include India - I must find if it has been added recently ! In a number of cases I have had visa free entry as a NZ citizen ( Singapore , Malaysia , Brunei , Australia ) so do not need the card there . In China I have used it once or twice without major hassles . It was more a matter of unfamiliarity on the part of officials that caused a slight ripple . eg the lack of a visa sticker in the passport needed to be explained on one occasion with reference to the card . As most airports have APEC cardholder lanes at customs this is usually not an issue . I did not feel under any threat of non-entry in China - which is what would happen without a visa as they have no visa on arrival arrangements . India does not appear to be part of the APEC card list for NZ . It may be different for the UK but I doubt that it is .
Yes , you will be offered food for free in the Nizzamuddin Eruklam Express ( 12284 ) as you are already charged in ticket . For evidence see the screenshot below which I took in the IRCTC website while booking ticket for the same train . <URL> To answer your second question the train usually reaches Manglore on time .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
Yes , a visa is required for EU citizens . Fortunately , getting one is free and ( usually ) pretty quick . The easiest way is to <URL> . See " Eligible passport holders " on that page to check if you are eligible for eVisitor . The eVisitor allows visitors to travel to Australia for short term business or tourism purposes for up to three months . eVisitor applications are free and are available to passport holders from the European Union and a number of other European countries . More information on Australian visas can be found at <URL>
Usually it 's a refuelling stop , and you just sit on the plane . You do n't go into the terminal , the plane is n't cleaned , and you 're soon on your way again . As an added bonus , the airline is n't charged for using the terminal , so the tickets are sometimes cheaper as a result . Edit After some reading of forums , the whole leaving the plane thing is possible depending on airline or terminal . In addition , another type of technical stop is where for example you have a fuel leak or engine failure and have to land to get it sorted . However these are usually ( obviously ) unplanned , so the fact it 's on your itinerary means it 's likely the former ( fuel stop ) .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
When you 're making rules like this , simplicity and objectivity are vital . You do n't want ( whether you 're a traveller , a supervisor of the security staff , or a person trying to prevent terrorism ) a situation where security staff need to make decisions on their feet based on whether the passenger 's story is good enough or any other kind of judgement call . Hmm , you have shampoo and conditioner , well yes your hair is quite long , you may pass . Oh my , you are almost completely bald , why would you need conditioner , we 're confiscating this , and so on . Travellers want to be confident their stuff wo n't be banned . Staff need to be able to do their jobs as quickly and consistently as possible . And the person who made the rules needs to be sure they will always be enforced as imagined . That 's why you ca n't bring 50 ml of stuff in a 600 ml bottle . Reading the label and seeing that it says 600 ml is simple , unambiguous and consistent . It works even if the security staff are not that bright . And there 's no need for a complicated appeal process . Someone else reads the label and says yup , 600 ml , this is a no-go . There 's no argument about whether you have 80 ml left in the bottle or 120 ml left in the bottle . The rule is just about the bottle . Your little bottles are each under 100ml and all fit in the baggie of freedom ? You 're free to go . Nobody stops to say hey , each of these bottles appears to have the very same stuff in it . That would require judgement . The volumes - the 100 ml and the dimensions of the baggie of freedom - have been chosen so that even if you brought 6 or 7 bottles ( whatever can fit ) of the maximum allowed size all of the same stuff , you would n't be able to do much damage . ( And really , checking that they are all labelled as different things would n't do much - we can all make labels . ) Also , if you used larger sub-bottles - say 200 ml - you could get more total volume into the baggie , so using small sub-bottles is another way of constraining the total volume . Designing a very simple and consistent system makes the checking faster . It lets people bring shampoo , conditioner , lotion , toothpaste , shaving cream etc. . And it was set up so that it still constrains the bad guys . Sort of . It 's not that hard to circumvent , in reality , since there are exemptions for things that are labelled ( eg saline solution , prescription medication ) and tremendous trust in labels . But it 's all tradeoffs , and this certainly makes people feel protected . It even has some effect . Nothing is 100 % , but the liquid-reducing measures do mean that more conspirators would be required for most terror acts , and more conspirators means more chances to catch them before they even get to the airport .
I can think of a few reasons : Verifying the identity of Wi-fi users , in case a court subpoena comes in requesting information about a certain user . It 's not a bullet-proof method ( many countries offer anonymous sim-cards ) , but it 's probably good enough in most cases . Some countries may also ban fully anonymous Wi-fi ( such as Germany or Turkey ) . Making sure they can cut-off users who use too much traffic or time ( some free connections are limited to 15/30/60 minutes ) . It becomes harder to reconnect once banned since changing your MAC address is not sufficient . Denying access to long-term users . It 's often possible for local residents to connect to major Wi-fi hubs close by . Maintaining accurate statistics on the number of users/their country of origin/etc . Showing targeted advertisements based on your phone number . Having a database of phone numbers for future text advertisements/sales calls/etc . It 's probably hidden away somewhere in the long " Terms and Conditions " that nobody reads .
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
end question
start question
Do baggage cart management units at Toronto Pearson International Airport accept bills and return change ?
I found <URL> . It says all rights reserved so I 'll just link to it . It clearly shows that they take coins credit cards bills I do n't see any indication of change-giving although it 's possible that is below the frame of the picture . Next to the coins slot someone has taped up a diagram of what coins are ok and they appear to be Canadian toonies , loonies , and quarters only . The bills appear to take both Canadian and US bills based on the pictures next to the bill slots - the top two have more colour and are probably Canadian $ 5 and $ 10 and the bottom three look , from a distance , like they might be US ones - $ 1 , $ 5 , and $ 10 would make sense .
As of July 2015 there is currently not a location to get a haircut at Miami airport <URL> lists all of the retail , food , and services at Miami airport has an information page on <URL> including information on art exhibitions at the airport .
I found <URL> . It says all rights reserved so I 'll just link to it . It clearly shows that they take coins credit cards bills I do n't see any indication of change-giving although it 's possible that is below the frame of the picture . Next to the coins slot someone has taped up a diagram of what coins are ok and they appear to be Canadian toonies , loonies , and quarters only . The bills appear to take both Canadian and US bills based on the pictures next to the bill slots - the top two have more colour and are probably Canadian $ 5 and $ 10 and the bottom three look , from a distance , like they might be US ones - $ 1 , $ 5 , and $ 10 would make sense .
Many do , but at a very poor exchange rate . At the time of this post , there are <URL> . But you 'll usually get an exchange rate in the range of 10:1 -11.5:1 . I saw several exchange rates in this range in Puerto Vallarta ( which is n't a border town , but does cater to many US tourists ) last weekend . The best exchange rate will probably be from your local bank , but will likely require that you order your pesos at least a week or two in advance of your trip . The next best bet is probably from an ATM , especially if your home bank does n't charge a currency conversion fee . Most credit unions wo n't , and many larger banks will have deals with a local Mexican bank to avoid such fees . Bank of America allows free cash withdraws from Santander ATMs , for instance . You can also change your cash from U.S. to Mexican currency ( or vice versa ) at many locations on either side of the border , and are called " Casa de Cambio " ( translation : Change House ) . The exchange rates vary , and are n't as good as you 'll get from a bank , but are better than you 'll get from a vendor accepting U.S. dollars .
Take the Airport Railroad to Seoul Station and from there a " Mugunghwa " train to Daejeon . The " all stop " train ( 1 hour journey ) from the airport to Seoul costs 3950 KRW . There is an express train doing the journey in 30 minutes . It costs 8000 KRW . <URL> The train from Seoul top Daejeon ( journey time : 2 hours ) costs 10800 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat . If you do without the reservation , you will save 1600 KRW . <URL> In total this option ( 13150 KRW for its cheapest variant ) is cheaper than an " Airport Limousine " ( = bus ) , which costs 20600 KRW . <URL> There are two slightly more expensive alternatives There are direct KTX trains from Incheon Airport to Deajeon . The 2 hour journey costs 36000 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat . As an alternative , from Seoul Station you can take a KTX to Daejeon . The 1 hour journey costs 23700 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
There are trains to Schiphol every hour through the night , it 's the Heerlen end of the trip that make it difficult . So you could first go to Utrecht , sleep there and catch a train in the morning . Or go all the way to Leiden or Amsterdam by train on Saturday afternoon and take a train , bus or taxi on Sunday morning . Depending on the type of accommodation/level of comfort , it should be possible to find cheaper ho ( s ) tel or B&amp;B in those cities than at the airport . You would also have more time to sleep in the morning than if you were to take your own car or a long-distance train during the night .
The one year validity was originally set in the <URL> and agreed upon . Anyway , in the 1968 convention of the same topic it was changed to no more than 3 years validity after the date of issue or until the date of expiry of the domestic driver 's license , whichever is earlier , but it seems that this is not followed . From <URL> According to the 1949 Convention on Road Traffic , an IDP remains valid for one year from the date of issue . However , according to the Vienna Convention , an IDP remains valid for no more than three years from the date of issue , or until the expiration date of national driving permit , whichever is earlier . An IDP is not valid for driving in the country where it was issued .
Yes , the regulations did change both in the US and in Europe . There is an older question about <URL> , where I recently added an <URL> explaining the change of rules of both the <URL> and the EASA . For your specific case with Swiss , the change by the EASA is responsible . Their <URL> states : The EU 's Aviation Safety Agency ( EASA ) has today updated its guidance on the use of portable electronic devices on board ( PED ) , including smartphones , tablets and e-readers . It confirms that these devices may be kept switched on in " Flight Mode " ( non-transmitting mode ) throughout the journey ( including taxiing , take-off and landing ) without a risk to safety . and then goes on The updated safety guidance published today refers to portable electronic devices ( PED ) used in non-transmitting mode , better known as " flight mode " . It allows , for the first time , the use of personal electronic devices in flight mode in all phases of the journey , from gate to gate . Swiss adopted this and reflected it in their regulations starting May 1 , 2014 . See this <URL> for example . Other European airlines are also starting to permit this . I am however not sure how the rules changed in other parts of the world .
The airport web site suggests you may be <URL> : A priority lane will be available for Nexus cardholders and airline guests with priority designations . NEXUS cardholders and airline guests with priority access may enter the U.S. Customs hall directly at any time by showing their boarding pass and/or valid Nexus card and U.S. Customs card . This may be because you have a membership with the airline that provides priority access to boarding and other services , because you are disabled , or whatever other reason the airline might designate you as a " priority " traveler . Such a designation would appear on your boarding pass .
They have <URL> in Argentina , HSBC ATM machines can deal with 6 digits pin code ( first hand experience in various countries since I hold an HSBC card with 6 digits pin code ) . I think it is safe to assume that you can use your card with 6 digits pin code at least in HSBC 's ATMs , also I have noticed that all HSBC ATM machines use the same software .
It depends . I 've entered it several times . Inevitably I 'm asked about my travel plans , and I explain my trip . Sometimes they 've asked how and when I 'm leaving Canada . Only on two occasions have they asked to see evidence of said trip . But they have asked , and have the right to ask . In addition , many airlines will refuse to carry you to a country ( eg Canada ) if you do n't have an exit ticket as well . Simple solution if you do n't have one yet - buy a refundable plane ticket , or a megabus/greyhound ticket from Vancouver to Seattle or Toronto to Buffalo .
You can even get an IDP from AAA via Mail ! The application form is at <URL> I do n't know if they would mail it to Spain , but if you have someone in the US to go to them with the filled form and all the requirements ( passport photos and copy of drivers license ) he will get the IDP and can express mail it to you ! If not , your best chance is to just call the AAA . While you usually wo n't get any trouble without it , if something happens and you do n't have an IDP you are in trouble . Insurance companies are happy for any reason to save money . The police will also take a closer look after an accident .
Assuming that Adria Airways closes boarding as usual 20-30 minutes prior to departure and you do check-in in advance , you have 45-55 minutes left for security clearance and finding the gate , what usually is more than enough time at Frankfurt Airport . You 'd also be fine if the train is 10 or 15 minutes delayed .
Well there is definitely free Wi-Fi at Guangzhou International Airport , including in locations that transit passengers can use . When I was in transit for four hours a few days ago I 'd say about every second departure gate had an Internet point which included I think two electric sockets on either side . These were of course a bit crowded with people using and charging various devices . There were various other sockets around the place that took various shaped plugs , but all the ones I tried seemed to have their electric supply disabled leaving only those at the Internet points working . It turns out that to get a login you need a mobile phone or an account on some Chinese Internet service I 'd never heard of called <URL> . I 'm a bit of a phone hater so I did n't understand some of the jargon but it seemed that only Chinese phone numbers would work , perhaps only certain carriers : China Mobile , China Unicorn , and China Telecom . As I had no telephone and no Sina Weibo account I spent my four hours without Internet at Guangzhou airport .
As Murphy 's Law dictates , the very next Google search I did for this info after giving up and submitting it as a question here , was successful ! <URL> : Sydney Airport opening times are : T1 International terminal is opened everyday from 3AM to 11:00 PM ( 0300 to 2300 ) • Customs are opened for departures passenger processing at 4AM daily ( 0400 ) T2 Domestic terminal is opened everyday from 4AM to 11:00 PM ( 0400 to 2300 )
A folio is a list of your charges . For example , phone calls , minibar , laundry services , room service , valet , etc. anything that is billed to your room . Hotels maintain separate folios , typical ones are : Guest Staff Master ( assigned for group accounts ; for example a tour group consisting of multiple guests ) Non-guest ( assigned for other services ; for example the valet service might be outsourced to a third party , etc. ) They are mainly used for accounting and to separate charges for easy tax purposes . The invoice in hospitality is no different than an invoice for any other good or service - it is simply proof of how much you have paid and against/for what ( good or service ) . As soon as you check in , a folio is opened for your room . All services tendered are recorded here , but when you come to checkout - only the billable services are recorded as part of your invoice . So , if in-room wifi or an airport shuttle is free for your room type , then these charges are still recorded in the folio , but are not part of your invoice . They are recorded in the folio because at the end , the hotel has to balance those charges .
I have met the " fruit sniffing " dog several times and am aware ( from watching Border Security ) of currency-sniffing and firearms-sniffing dogs in addition to the classic drug-sniffers . Generally , these dogs sniff people 's bags more than people . ( The Canadian beagle that met my flight from the Caribbean once sat [ the dog 's signal ] about my bag , but the handler did n't even want to look in the pocket when I said there was no fruit in it . The Australian german shepherd did n't sit and the handler was not interested in looking to confirm when I said there was peppermint gum in the pocket the dog smelled at the most . ) [ As an aside , in addition to being more interested in bags than people , the vast majority of these dogs work Arrivals not Departures and are found in the baggage hall . The chances of someone being sniffed on their way to a plane are very low . Still , since you worry about this , let me also add that they should allow plenty of time to get to the plane so that unexpected stop-and-search moments do n't result in them being paged to get to the gate and almost missing the plane . I found <URL> that specifically shows cash dogs working in Departures at Heathrow . Watch it and you will hear the handlers tell people " let the dog sniff your bags " ( not you ) and see that the dogs do not touch the people . You can also see people putting backpacks and other worn-high bags such as purses down towards the ground to let them be sniffed . ] My recommendation to you ( and it helps other things as well ) is to have your pockets as empty as possible . In my case that means completely empty . Everything , even my boarding pass , money , and cellphone , is in my carry on bag . Make sure that none of your bags [ carryon or checked ] contain fruit , meat , drugs , thousands of dollars in bank notes , guns , or illicit drugs of course . Also , have a quick chat with your imam to clarify the difference between going over to someone 's home and patting their dog and generally deliberately interacting with a dog vs being in a public place where a working dog approaches you , sniffs you without touching you , and then leaves . The public is not supposed to pat or interact with the sniffer dogs and the dog is not supposed to touch you at all . This conversation may reduce your anxiety about airport dogs a little , which is a good thing , because anxiety in an airport always gets you extra attention . Your imam may also advise you about the washing that is required after a dog has licked ( unlikely with a trained professional ) or nuzzled you or your possessions . If you need to bring something specific to clean up from the dog contact , have it with you in your carryon , in a size and format that wo n't cause issues going through security . Finally if the dog approaches you , put your bag down , stand up , step back from your bag , and hold your arms out a bit - partly to make yourself bigger and partly so your hands are up and away from the dog . Look at the handler , not the dog , and say " please do n't let the dog touch me " - the handler should understand that request and be fine with it .
According to <URL> <URL> <URL> , most taxis will take credit cards in Frankfurt . However , as the third link suggests , it 's always worth checking with the driver first to ensure that a ) they take credit cards and b ) whether or not there are any fees associated with doing so : Always confirm with your Frankfurt Airport taxi driver if they take credit or bank cards and if there are any card fees . So short answer - probably , but check with the driver/company before you get in/book .
Possibly . It 's not every passenger that has to , but you may , if : They ask you to do so , or Your shoes contain metal ( eg steel toed/capped shoes ) Source : <URL>
end question
start question
Which currency to use in Patagonia ?
Yes , in Chile most venues will only accept Chilean pesos . It 's different across the border in Argentina though , there you will fare much better with US dollars .
<URL> , anywhere in the country , because it 's by far the most important currency for trade and remittances . <URL> . However , the cash spread will almost certainly be higher than the rate you would get from an ATM , which is <URL> .
As much as you 'd like . But , if it 's a real lot , you might need to declare it . <URL> amounts exceeding EUR 10,000 . - or more or the equivalent in another currency ( incl . banker 's draft and cheques of any kind ) must be declared . <URL> amounts exceeding USD 5,000 . - ( or equivalent ) in cash , or USD 10,000 . - ( or equivalent ) in traveller 's cheques must be declared ; Local currency ( Indian Rupee-INR ) : Import of INR is prohibited , except for residents of India importing up to INR 7,500 . - Foreign currencies include currency notes , traveller 's cheques , cheques , drafts etc. . Edit : for future readers , make sure to check when this answer was updated last as I personally expect these numbers to be lowered soon-ish .
Adding a new answer since this needs an update : there 's now a new choice in town , namely the <URL> . As of Jan 2015 , it covers all public transport in Sydney and nearby , including trains , ferries , buses and light rail . Opal is your standard pay-per-use ' smartcard ' , just tap on and tap off every time you get on/off a vehicle . Some noteworthy catches/features : You pay for distance travelled , so long trips cost more . Every vehicle you use is charged separately , so train to ferry to bus means three fares , no discounts . ( Bus-bus , train-train , ferry-ferry transfers are free though . ) On trains ( only ) , you automatically get off-peak discounts when applicable . There 's a daily cap of $ 15 , which is handy especially for ferries , which get pretty expensive pretty fast otherwise . There 's also a weekly cap of 8 " trips " , after which all travel is free . ( Note that just transferring does n't start a new trip , you need to wait an hour for it to count . ) On Sundays you can travel all you want for just $ 2.50 . The airport access fee is not covered by any of these special rules , and must be paid in full each time . You can pick up an Opal for " free " at the airport , major stations ( not all though ! ) , 7/11s , newsagents , etc , paying only for the value you load onto it ( minimum $ 10 , IIRC ) . For time being , the MyMulti card covered in Gagravarr 's answer still exists , and a weekly MyMulti for the appropriate zone may be a better option depending on your travel patterns , particularly if you 'll be transferring a lot . The <URL> calculator can help you compare your options . ( Disclaimer : I wrote it ! ) But sometime in 2015 , they 'll pull the weekly MyMulti too ( they 've already killed off monthlies and longer ) , and Opal will be the only game in town .
<URL> . Or for a picture version ( albeit comparing them to Australian plugs , but at least it shows you ) - <URL> . Basically , international outlet/plug types A and C , and they run at 220V/50Hz . Coming from the Netherlands , you will need an adaptor .
<URL> offers " Sparpreis " saver fares up to a few minutes before departure . However , these are the regular saver fares that only rise and almost never fall in price if you are getting nearer to departure , Up until last December <URL> offered such tickets however that promotors on has stopped . A month ago they once again had a few without long notice so it pays to check from time to time . Note that they currently sell the same tickets as Deutsche Bahn directly but with a surcharge . You might be able to find someone selling their non-online saver fare on websites such as EBay Kleinanzeigen or local Facebook groups . However , never fall for offers to book a connection you provide them for a low price on those sites as an online-ticket . These are too good to be true . Other than that there are no last minute deals for Deustche Bahn trains in Germany .
I spent about half the day yesterday booking my flights . Here is the info I found : Airlines that do not allow in-cabin pets on transatlantic flights : American , Continental , U.S. Airways Airlines that do allow in-cabin pets on transatlantic flights : Delta , Lufthansa , United These are personally verified by calling the airlines , and by taking my dog to Germany from Frankfurt on Lufthansa .
The main difference between liquid soap and dish washer detergent is price . So not a good idea in general , but only because liquid soap is more expensive . One recipe for liquid soap is given <URL> -- note olive oil , coconut oil , essential oils . Some of the ingredients for a well-known brand of washing liquid are listed <URL> -- note Sodium laureth sulphate , Alcohol denat , sodium chloride . For the first of these three <URL> has " SLES is an inexpensive and very effective foaming agent . " For the second , consumers are used to alcohol ( ethanol ) being expensive , but that is only because of the tax . Denatured ( methylated spirits ) it is very much less expensive . <URL> is offered for AUD 3.30 . The third is common salt . Consider instead the first of the natural liquid soap ingredients . <URL> is offering one litre of olive oil for AUD 5.99 . Coconut oil is much more expensive still - AUD 20 per litre at <URL> . However , while Cocamidopropyl betaine features in detergents it is derived from coconut oil . According to <URL> " soap is natural and detergent is n't " . That was the case around the time detergents were being developed ( say 1930-50 ) but now most ' soaps ' are synthetic products . Another significant difference is the ecological effects -- see <URL> . Soap made from natural products is far friendlier to the environment . However , in terms of cleaning power they both work the same way . They are surface active molecules that cling to dirt at one end and to water at the other , and then get flushed away ( with the dirt ) on rinsing . Though there are some differences in how the two respond in ' hard ' water ( that is , where the mineral content is high ) . In terms of bactericides , some dish washing liquids are advertised for their disinfectant properties but , as with much else in the world of soaps and detergents , there is a LOT of hype . " Soaps " ( some TV programmes ) are not called what they are because the industry giants could not afford millions to promote products earning them billions . Dirty dishes are ones we have just eaten off -- they are not an environment that supports germs the way the human body does . Do we wash our hands in washing up liquid after a trip to the lavatory ? No we use ' soap ' ( at least , I hope you do ) because that kills germs . So , any form of detergent is good enough for dishes and liquid soap more expensive - but much more environmentally responsible . From a travel aspect however washing up liquid is generally more concentrated than ' liquid soap ' so might be more practical if to be carried around . The greater concentration is also a positive for washing up liquids to offset some of their environmental negatives .
It 's true you might not actually need hiking boots but you have to decide . Personally I did n't like the kind of backpackers that seemed to have all the expensive brand name gear whether they needed it or not . Felt a bit phoney to me when I was younger . So while others had $ 200 brand name hiking boots I had my cheap supermarket sneakers . I also felt the blingy stuff looked like $ $ $ dollar signs to potential thieves . I 'm not a serious hiker but I wore plain old sneakers all over the world in my travels for twenty years , including climbing volcanoes and in snow . This finally changed a bit when I took up hitchhiking last year . I had a heavy pack and spent a lot of time on the edges of roads which were often crumbly or wet or had a steep camber . A couple of times I came close to twisting my sneakers off my feet ! Then I found myself near a cheap chain outdoor gear shop on the edge of some Polish city while they had a sale on . For about $ 22 I got a decent pair of cheap non brand name non blingy functional hiking boots that are perfectly practical , that I knew would n't last forever , and that nobody would bother to steal . <URL> are definitely something I would buy again . They got me from Poland to Armenia , back to Frankfurt , up and down Korea and Japan a couple of times , and now from Istanbul to Albania and have finally started to let in a bit of water a year and a bit later . That 's great value for me ! I no longer carry sneakers travelling at all . I always wear my bulky stuff while I 'm actually moving about . My jeans and my biggest shoes or hiking boots and the smaller stuff in the pack . When I 'm at a city or beach the big stuff stays in the room and I 'll wear the shorts and flipflops .
If your itinerary is DUB-LHR-LAX , then that Dublin and Shannon have US Pre-Clearance facilities is pretty much irrelevant . Your DUB-LHR flight , while not technically domestic , is essentially similar since you should n't have to enter the UK during transit . You will clear US Immigration and Customs at LAX . You should expect to get any required forms * from the cabin crew sometime during the LHR-LAX flight . * CBP has notably automated their processes now . BA , presumably , will play a video before arrival that describes the process and what travelers are exempt from what procedures .
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
I 'd suggest taking a look at the website of the Paris Convention and Visitors Bureau , which has a <URL> . It lists a number of places ( mostly museums , some galleries ) that have late openings . The page is unfortunately organized by place rather than by what your options are on a particular day of the week , but the " fact sheet " for every place does clearly list " late opening " on the " prices and times " section . Here are a few suggestions taken from that page , but organized by day of the week ( non-exhaustive list ) : Monday : Musée Jacquemart-André ( until 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . Tuesday : Jeu de Paume Paris ( until 9pm ) . Wednesday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) . Thursday : Musée des Arts et Métiers ( until 9.30 pm ) , Musée d'Orsay ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Friday : Musée du Louvre ( until 9.45 pm ) , Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) . Saturday : Musée du Quai Branly ( until 9pm ) , Musée Jacquemart-André ( 9pm , only during temporary exhibitions ) . There 's also the Palais de Tokyo which is open every day , except Tuesday , until midnight ; and the Musée de l'Érotisme is open every day until 2am . Obviously these times can change , so do check the original " fact sheet " . For most places it also lists until what time before closing time the ticket offices stay open , which would be useful to know . ( Thanks for reopening this question ; the above is a slightly extended version of the <URL> ) .
Well firstly most buses wo n't go directly to El Calafate . You 'll likely have to change buses , and likely will want to - it 's a long way ! However , a convenient stopping point could be Puerto Madryn ( Chubut ) . It 's a great little beach town , with the Valdez Peninsula - and I kid you not - you can sit on the hostel balcony and point at the whales as they come near the shore ! Some great seafood restaurants too . If you 're going to consider the bus , consider upgrading from Semi-cama to full-cama or cama-suite or whatever the bus company you choose calls it . Semi-cama is seats that partially recline . However for about $ 5 more from Puerto Madryn to Buenos Aires ( that 's the price difference it was for me ) you can upgrade to full-cama , which gives you a seat that folds down into a BED , as well as good food , and tv . If you 're on a strict budget do n't bother , but once I discovered that , wow , it 's so much better for the huge trips . In El Calafate , I also highly recommend the America Del Sur Hostel - it had a spectacular view over the town and Lago Argentina , and you can organise trips to the glacier from their reception ( we did a day tour to the glacier - it 's spectacular ) . Much of the flat part of Argentina is fairly boring scenery , but I liked the coastal route , and once you get into the mountains it 's great . You 'll spot guanacoes ( like llamas ) and rhea ( like ostrich ) and other animals . But I guess it depends on your preference , how you handle seriously-long bus trips , and how much time you have as well . Look into Andesmar ( my favourite ) , El Rapido ( sometimes cheaper ) , Omnilineas and Plusmar .
Before I answer you Before I answer your question , please read this advise as <URL> and I can tell you this : The roads are not that easy , sometimes given the roads surface it was challenging doing 50 km in a day ; When the roads were alright , then the <URL> . When the wind blows strongly in the Argentinian side and the Southern you get the stronger is gets to the point were it is <URL> to even walk ( check pictures from the South Patagonia , trees grows horizontally ) . So you can have the sunny but windy Argentinian side , or the rainy ( heavy !! ) Chilean one . Sometimes the weather was so bad , that we had to take a rest day ; Argentinian and Chilean sucks at mapping or road signs . Both do not match in terms of how far is the next town , and sometimes even both are incorrect ! Locals only know distances in " hours by car " , not very helpful ( at least it seems that there are finally now Google Maps of Chile and Argentina , that did not exists before , so I do not know how good they are ) ; Finally , the important questions when you do Patagonia by bicycle ( or any other means ) is not where is the next accomodation , not at all . It is where can I " refuel " next ? For a car , it is the tank station . For a cyclist , it is food and mostly water ! You will need water for cooking , for drinking , and sometimes other purposes . And water can be scarce on the Argentinian side . So get a water filter , and ask fellow travellers cycling South to North where is the next water refuel point . However , the effort is well worth what you will experience ! It is a beautiful country , extremely beautiful , people are extremely nice and helpful . And here is the catch : if you plan on doing 100km/day , then either you are superman ( and there are a few , but I 'm not ! ) or you 'll get disillusioned ! But even if you 're superman ( who knows ) , what a pity to manage to fight so hard against bad road , bad weather , broken parts , a combination of all thoses , etc. and not having the time to enjoy the landscape because you need to rush on and continue ! One last piece of advice ( if again you 're not superman ) , take a rest day from time to time ( e.g. once a week ) you will need it for various reasons : Your body ca n't follow your mind and you 're completely tired and used ; You will need to wash your clothes or <URL> you did not think of , it can take a big part of a day ; It is nice to enjoy every 1000km a nice restaurant ; when do you plan on taking on the views ? Most of the time , the best views are not from the most direct North-to-South route , but one the side tracks . The answer When I left for Patagonia , I took a guide book with me ( e.g. Lonelyplanet , Footprint , etc. ) in case I need to find accommodation . But you do n't need to really . First of all and most of the time you will be camping among sheep or lamas . And second and last of all , when you get to a " city " it is small enough to get through most camping/guest houses/hotels in a short time to find where you want to sleep . There are n't that much choices and usually they are well indicated/advertised . And when all of the above does not work , open the guide book and you will find an answer . It does not require battery nor to have a network reachable :-) But as I said before , accommodation should not be a question , you should not care . Take great care of your bike , of the replacement part you 're going to take with you , of the tooling to maintain and repair your bike , on good clothes and camping gears , be ready to carry food for 7 days and water for 2-3 days ( worse cases ) . Be ready to do wild camping for 7 days in a row . Conclusion Do it ! Cycling Patagonia is extremely rewarding ! But do n't take it light ! Accommodation is a no problem , <URL> . Getting food and water is , you need to plan each time you have an opportunity to refuel . Superman can probably cycle from Bariloche to Ushuaia in 3 weeks and will be able to enjoy , visit , take on the views . We mere mortals could potentially do it also in 3 weeks , but then what for ? Do a shorter trip , or take longer vacation . If you are a good sport person , then you will probably be able to easily do 60-70km / day in Patagonia , but even if you are that sportive , take a rest day every 7 days ( or less ) . Your body will thank you for it .
Well <URL> in the world . I 'll ignore lightvessels for this question . For European countries : Belgium - 6 Bulgaria - 5 Denmark - 6 Estonia - 42 Finland - 9 France - several Wales - 25ish Scotland - tons Portugal - 44 continental , more in Azores Spain - tons Sweden - 20ish England - 50ish Norway - tons etc you get the idea . From that , you can either infer there are loads in Norway , Portugal , Spain and Estonia , or there may just be lighthouse obsessed fans in those countries . <URL> maintains an index for more than 14,700 of the world 's lighthouses . So that 's another good place to start . They also note : It is not so easy to define exactly what we mean by a lighthouse , and various organizations and individuals have used very different definitions when describing or classifying lighthouses . Clearly , all lighthouses are lighted aids to navigation , but not all lighted aids are considered to be lighthouses . Some definitions are not controversial . An aid to navigation is a structure placed on or near navigable water to provide visual guidance to mariners . A beacon is an aid to navigation that is fixed in place ( that is , not floating ) . A lighted beacon or lightbeacon is a beacon displaying a light , while an unlit beacon is called a daybeacon . Often , a lighted beacon is simply called a light . In this Directory , a lighthouse is a lightbeacon having a height of at least 4 meters ( 13 ft ) and a cross-section , at the base , of at least 4 square meters ( 43 sq ft ) . This simple definition does not require that a lighthouse have any particular form or appearance . The structure of a lighthouse may be enclosed , partially enclosed , or completely open . If you went state-side , apparently " <URL> " . According to <URL> , there are 1032 in England . Finally , I found <URL> , which plots lighthouses on a map . It 's not very detailed , but I 'd say Denmark in this case . You might also contact the <URL> , as they may well have statistics somewhere , or know who might . EDIT In addition , someone mentioned the coastline effect . While it would seem to indicate more chance of lighthouses , in reality it 's dependent more on dangerous , irregular and busy coastlines . If it 's easy sailing and deep water , why have a lighthouse ? However , there 's probably some rough correlation still - as a tiny coastline like Latvia is probably going to have fewer than Norway . To that effect , here is <URL> , and the longest European one is Norway , unless you also count Russia as European ...
That 's the kind of gear I 'd use when going to hike well into subzero temperatures . Attempting to hike in such a gear at +20 ° C , especially in humid air , you 'll not be comfortable at all . It 's a total overkill . Especially the pants . What I 'd use for such a hike : t-shirt , preferably non-cotton stay-dry kind ; soft shell fleece jacket ( Windstopper or equivalent ) waterproof , breathable jacket ( Gore-Tex or equivalent ) breathable hiking trousers ( not thermo insulated , either waterproof or quick drying ) waterproof , breathable hiking boots ( tall ones ) For sleeping at temperatures -5 ° C what you really need is not huge amount of clothes , but decent sleeping bag . With filling made either of goose down , or even better synthetic . You can find sleeping bags rated to as low as -30 ° C . As far as I know , in Cuzco you should n't expect torrential rains at that time of a year ( or much any rain at all ) . So rain poncho does n't seem necessary . Does n't weight much though , so you might take it just in case . Preferably the kind that also covers your backpack . Especially if your backpack is not waterproof .
Contrary to the popular opinion The City is not that big . So let 's lay out a few rules that will help your search : If you are going to stay in Manhattan there are very few places that have more then a 4 block walk to a subway that will take you almost anywhere you want to go , so drop a pin and there you will stay ( just do n't stay in the parks police does n't particularly like that :) ) . Areas of Brooklyn and Queens as well as some places in the Bronx also offer great views and ease of access to the city , such as Williamsburg , Brooklyn Heights have great views of east and south sides of Manhattan as well as access to the Subway so 15-20 minutes will get you to practically every place of interest in Manhattan . Consider looking in Hoboken or downtown Jersey City . These can be slightly on the expensive side but have access to PATH which runs 24 hours and buses that get you in and out of Manhattan really quickly ( having lived in Jersey City time to commute to Times Square was less then for some Brooklynites ) . Sights . Considering what you have listed I would assume you wanted to see Grand Central Terminal rather then Penn Station because the original Penn Station is gone . Hotels . Hotels could get expensive in New York City and around Christmas and New Years you might have to pay arm , leg , and a few other body parts for a room . If you are looking to stay a week you might look at <URL> to see if you can rent an apartment . One thing though is there are a few Supermarkets around so if you decide to cook locate those first . But in all enjoy the city .
If you pay by Dollar ( or home currency ) The hotel will add a charge for this , hence you will be paying more . If you pay by local currency the exchange rate will be decided by the credit card company or bank . These exchange rates are much better than the hotel rates . <URL> for more information regarding this service for Visa holders . AFAIK , Other companies have similar services so this applies to all other credit cards .
I 'm currently in Chile and have withdrawn money on several occasions . So far , once I 've aborted my withdrawal because the machine told me it was going to charge for my withdrawal . This , while , later , an ATM from the same bank did not charge . I 've tried with 3 or 4 different banks . This suggests to me that ATM withdrawal fees depend not on the bank , but on the ATM . Note , though , that my girlfriend , who does have a card from a bank in a different country to mine , does get charged ( and told she will ) , by ATMs that do n't charge me .
I know that some starwood hotels allow you to entirely skip the check-in process and simply walk up to your room and <URL> ; although this is n't anonymous . I also know of some hotels that allow you to check in as an alias ; but again , this is n't anonymous this is just an extra layer of privacy to prevent people from asking for you by simply calling the reception . It is also used as a layer of security by some . Truly anonymous clandestine checkin - where you simply open a door , walk up to the key rack , pick up your key and go off to your room , if there is such a place , I would definitely like to visit it . It may have been possible years ago , but this day of cross border terrorism and whatever else , data collection has become a sort of fever for any and all jurisdictions that hope to attract any kind of tourist dollars . You may have been able to do so previously , but I doubt you can today : Even if you use a pre-paid anonymous card , or have someone else pay for your room booking , you need to show proof of who you are when you arrive to collect the keys . The name on the reservation has to match the person asking for the key . This name can be an alias , but that is not the definition of anonymous . Further , it goes towards security and liability on the part of the hotel . God forbid there is some incident - say a fire or other such security issue , they need to know who is checked in where , who is accounted for , etc. . As mentioned by others , some jurisdictions mandate collection of hotel guest data as part of their overall security procedures/requirements - if they do n't they are breaking the law and may be subject to fines or worse suspension of their license to operate . It may be true that you are able to skip a lot of this formality if you use more informal means of stay ( like airbnb , hostels , or staying with friends/colleagues ; room sharing ) but I do n't think that was in scope of your question .
end question
start question
Tips for taking a dog on a long distances ( multiple day ) car trip ?
The big question mark is how well your dog travels . We 've got a dog that will just curl up and sleep for as long as we choose to travel - she 's done 14 hour non-stop trips with no issues - but I also know dogs that whine incessantly without regular ( three hourly or so ) stops to relieve themselves and/or have a walk around . This will significantly affect travel time and hence where you 'll be able to reach within a given time period . Other than that , you 'll need to confirm that anywhere you 're looking to stay is pet-friendly . This may not be as big an issue in the US , but in Australia options are more limited and require researching and booking ahead . If you 're going to go sightseeing the same applies - is the attraction dog friendly ? What will you do with your dog while you 're visiting the attraction ? Leaving your dog in the car can be ok , but it really depends on the dog and also the parking situation ( under cover is a minimum ) and the weather ( never do it on a hot day ) . The minimum of travel equipment that we 've found is : Water bowl and water . You can get a water bottle with a combined drinking tray that is useful for travelling . Food bowl and food . Something for your dog to sleep on/in , whether it 's a blanket or a bed . Ideally it 's something familiar to the dog and that they 're accustomed to sleeping in . Travel harness . This depends on the dog but our 's is known to try to hop into the driver 's lap - very bad . It also reduces the chance of the dog getting injured if an accident happens . The usual leash and poo bags for bathroom stops .
In general , no , you do n't have to , particularly if you 're just looking for a bed for one night , and are n't terribly picky . That said , the later you choose to pull off the road - particularly in peak travel season - the more likely you are to be greeted by that dreaded " No Vacancy " sign . ( Or , in nicer establishments , a polite refusal at the front desk . ) My typical MO when driving long distances , is to pull off the road at a rest stop or town about 2-3 hours before I intend to stop driving for the day ; ( in my case , this is usually right around the time the sun is getting low enough in the sky to blind me if I 'm driving west , so I can wait it out ; otherwise , around Sunset . ) Then , I 'll use my Smartphone ( or , if I 'm running low tech for some reason , a payphone at a rest stop and a map ) , to look up hotels that are about ~ 100 miles further along the road from where I am , and book a room online before continuing my drive . This gives me the flexibility to book same day for wherever I end up , while avoiding the occasional frustration of showing up at 9 PM to no rooms for 50 miles in any direction on a Friday night , followed by sleeping in the car in a parking lot ( it 's happened to me . It sucks . ) . All of the major US chains have pretty decent mobile sites that are geared towards exactly this sort of use . I find the IHG ( Holiday Inn et al ) , and Best Western apps are particularly good for looking a little bit ahead along a highway . YMMV . Keep in mind that in some cases , booking further in advance can give you access to better pricing or promotions , but you give up flexibility to do so .
Given that <URL> I 'd say that it would be perfectly legal for you to wear one on the plane regardless of which class you 're flying in . Worst case scenario you 'll get some looks from other passengers . Go ahead and fly comfortable .
$ 730 unfortunately is n't that shocking and in par with my experiences all over Europe . It is either : Common practice imposed on any car rental agreement by the software the rental agency uses . The amount you lose in case you are liable for in case of damage or an accident . It is not uncommon for rental companies to still apply a deductible even if you have " full coverage " insurance . If this is the case it typically is in the small print of your rental agreement . The last time the default was a $ 2,500 deductible , which I could decrease by buying additional insurance . Still after paying the maximum amount a $ 620 deductible remained . The rental was a small Peugeot 307 for $ 39 per day , with an additional $ 16 to cover liability up to $ 620 . Also be aware that in most cases even if an accident was not your fault , the rental agencies will keep the block up until everything is dealt with . I had this some years ago when some one tail-gated me . I had to wait one and a half years before I got reimbursed .
A lot of what you need you can just get in the grocery store - rice , pasta , dried potatoes ( either mashed or slices for " au gratin ) , sausage like pepperoni and salami that specifically does n't need refrigeration , dried fruit and nuts , instant hot cereal ( oatmeal , cream of wheat etc ) , dried legumes ( especially lentils which do n't need soaking ) jam , honey , and peanut butter will take care of a lot of your needs . You 'll want to put things into different packaging so they can survive in your pack and so that you 're taking the right amount for the length of the trip . My favourite camping breakfast is instant oatmeal . Add extra raisins , brown sugar , or other dried fruits if you like . Boil water in the morning and you have coffee and oatmeal and you are set for a pretty physical day . ( Bring a whisperweight stove that uses butane or liquid fuel - fires are far too slow for morning purposes . ) Beef jerky ( made at home if you have a dehydrator , or bought in the store if you do n't ) along with dried fruit and nuts will meet any snack needs through the day . If you must have lunch , you can use bagels or English muffins ( on week + trips I <URL> english muffins , your trip is short so just bring a few packages ) with cheese ( the " light " cheeses keep better , and buy several small ones so they stay sealed longer than one big one ) , sausage ( the no-refrigeration needed ones ) , peanut butter , jam , or honey . If one of your days features a big climb to a gorgeous lookout and you know you 'll want a rest , packages of soup mix from the grocery store can make a 30 minute stop into a delightful lunch . Again the whisperlight stove and some locally-sourced water . Dinner the first night can be meat you took from your freezer that morning , wrapped in plastic and several layers of newspaper . I 've done it and when we unrwap it , it 's not just cold , it still has ice crystals in the middle . Fry it , and cook some fresh veg with it as you would at home . The second night try <URL> using that no-refrigeration pepperoni , some cheese , and maybe some onions and any other veg you 've brought . The third night , something vegetarian built around lentils and rice - we love kusherie - or beans in a sauce , like meatless spicy chili with dumplings . You can also dry hamburger meat ( cooked ) in your oven at home and use that as the meat in spaghetti sauce or shepherds pie filling . Set the hot pan of cooked sauce aside with a towel around it while you cook the starch - it will stay plenty warm and you only need the one little stove . These need you to bring canned or dried veg , I choose dried for the weight and rehydrate them right in the sauce or stew . Bottom line is this is way easier than you think . Have a great time !
Accommodation in Stanley includes numerous bed and breakfasts as well as a handful of hotels . You can have a look at weather conditions for the Falkland Islands on <URL> . Several <URL> in the main town of Stanley as well . Visa requirements will differ depending on what passport you have . However , you can look at <URL> , which indicates that for a visitor visa at least , for example , New Zealanders do n't require a visa to visit :) For WORKING , however , I have a few sources of information for you : <URL> from the Government , including pension schemes and the like . From the <URL> , they indicate that for visas , you should contact as follows : To apply for a visa to visit the Falkland Islands , please contact the Falkland Islands Government Office in London ( +44 20 7222 2542 or Reception@falklands.gov.fk ) to request a visa form .
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
For a short term visit of less than six months , <URL> . In addition , there are special circumstances surrounding <URL> , such as tuberculosis , HIV , yellow fever , polio , and Ebola . In particular , the following are said about tuberculosis and polio : If you are applying for a temporary visa you may be asked to undergo tuberculosis testing on a risk management basis . Applicants will be asked to provide a polio vaccination certificate if applying for a visa from outside of Australia if : you have spent 28 days or longer in Afghanistan , Cameroon , Equatorial Guinea , Ethiopia , Iraq , Nigeria , Pakistan , Somalia or Syria , or in any combination of these countries , on or after 5 May 2014 Was it clear on your visa application that you would only be there for three days ?
By default , if you do n't see a ' no dog ' sticker , your dog will be allowed into restaurants . Dogs are not allowed in any of the major museums or churches but are allowed pretty much everywhere else . ( <URL> ) . From same source : Dogs of any size are allowed on the public transportation system including trams , metro , busses and trains . Dogs are allowed for free on all types of transportation except for trains which charge a 3 euro dog day ticket fee . You may also be interested in : <URL> .
Normally if you 're stopped or involved in an accident police officers are asking for 3 things : License Registration Proof of Insurance . Normally in the case of the rental from a private party or from a car rental company you do n't have car registration available but you do have a rental agreement signed by you and an authorized representative allowing you to drive the car . <URL> formerly known as <URL> provides this service for you so they must have formalized to process but I do n't have their contract available but I have found a few others online <URL> <URL> and so on . One of the things that could pose a problem is actually insurance . I have n't found any companies in the US in any state that will sell a policy to a non-US resident for a limited term , but a policy holder in the US ( and your friend will have to have one to register the car ) will be allowed to add you as a foreign driver to his/her insurance thus clearing the last obstacle ( this may vary from state to state and company to company ) . P.S. . There have been anecdotal evidence that a possession of a car registration allows you to legally drive someone else 's car but I ca n't find any proof of that so do n't take it at face value .
Difficult . You 're probably going to want to spend a night . In which case you could take a car . IF you wanted to take the train , the service is the <URL> . However , the <URL> , and you wo n't reach Bundaberg until 3.30 pm . Coming back , depending on the day , you <URL> . Then you 've got the <URL> , but there the departure times out of Brisbane are in the evening , so even less useful . Finally , you have the <URL> , which is meant to be one of the top rail journeys in the world . However , for getting to Bundaberg , your departure time in Brisbane is 9am , getting you in at 4pm , and returning times are 9.15 am . They only run some days of the week ( it 's a long line ) . Bus is going to be similar , unless you fancy some wee hour coach journey , if you can find it . Even in 2004 when I was doing a scenic flight out of Hervey Bay ( next to Bundaberg ) we got up early in Mooloolaba , rather than try and get there from Brisbane . Final option - Bundaberg does have an airport , there may be a convenient flight from Brisbane , and you could get a bus/train back , or vice-versa ?
I 'll try to answer on the assumption that you 're asking mostly about the relative practicality of a day trip , rather than asking for a sort of value judgment on the merits of an overnight . You can see a number of popular tourist destinations on a day trip to Kamakura from Tokyo . Additionally , it 's a somewhat sleepy city that , in comparison to much of Tokyo or Yokohama , as temples and shrines close to the public around sunset and retail mostly sort of shuts down around 5:30 -6 pm or so , and unless you 're staying for an unusually late dinner and drinks sort of thing , it 's perfectly easy to get back to nearly anywhere in Tokyo as long as you leave by 10pm or so . Train frequency decreases later in the evening , and that 's the main risk you have to getting back to your hotel . If you plan ahead or use the mobile version of <URL> web site , that should n't be a big problem . The primary benefit of an overnight is that it simply is n't practical to see more than two or three of the major shrines/temples in a single day . Some of the best known ones , like the Daibutsu at Kōtoku-in , can be a pretty substantial walk from other major destinations , like Hachimangu Shrine , so if you have a long list of places you 'd like to see and you 're not motivated to navigate local buses or take taxis to reduce your travel time , or if it happens to be a busy tourist season or pilgrimage season with lots of lines , you might lose a lot of time to travel and waiting . If you have lots of places you want to see , and you want to navigate the little shops selling lacquerware and leather goods and so on that Kamakura is fairly well known for , allow time for lunch and snacks , and stop impromptu at whatever sights you stumble on without advance planning , it can be nice to have the advantages of an early morning after an overnight stay so that you do n't have to push yourself too hard .
If you intend to stay in UK and Hungary more than a couple of days in each , you 'd need to buy a package for each country separately . The global services rates you cite are actually pretty competitive , if I compare with what I 'm charged for roaming in countries in Europe other than my own . I 'd just try to reduce my voice usage as much as possible , and look at a VoIP solution instead . Free Wi-Fi is not difficult to find in UK and Hungary ( obviously depending whether you spend your time in large cities or not ) . Apart from that , it 's best that you shop around yourself -- recommendation questions are actually off-topic for this site . Look at <URL> and check the available operators and conditions in each country . Check also <URL> for some more information . Skype charges $ 0.026 / minute for calling US numbers , and you can get a monthly subscription to the amount of 60 minutes for as little as $ 1.09 / month ( see <URL> ) . These prices are hard to beat . You can use <URL> ( using your Skype credit to access otherwise paid-for Wi-Fi networks ) . Granted , the Skype Wi-Fi rates are extortionate , but are per-minute rather than per-traffic , so they actually might work well enough depending on your use case . It will be certainly cheaper than $ 0.25 / MB , though .
The Antarctic Peninsula is a part of the sector of Antarctica claimed by Argentina . If you are taking a ship that goes only there ( and not to the Falkland Islands , for example ) , you are technically not leaving Argentina at all . I went to the Antarctic Peninsula from Ushuaia last November . The crew took my passport before I boarded the ship , and returned it just before we came back to Ushuaia . I do n't know what kind of formalities there were before the departure , but at least I did n't get an exit stamp to the passport . When the ship returned to Ushuaia , they just transfered us to our hotels without any formalities .
The passes for Vancouver and Victoria are different . I went two weeks ago from Vancouver to Victoria by bus and ferry . On the ferry you can buy in the gift shop a daily pass for buses in Victoria , costs 5 CAD . To add : you can do it in one day .
To the best of my knowledge Cambodia Tourist Visas and eVisas are single entry only . But it is possible to transit in Siem Reap without entering the country , assuming you can have your bags checked through to Laos . Are you flying on the same airline or are you changing airlines ?
Special pants are a must . I 'd start looking at sites like <URL> to get an idea . One thing that I would very much suggest is if you have any avid ski enthusiast friends talk to them because they would give you pointers on what is good and where to get it . But a short list for what you need is : Warm socks Pants Warm boots . Ski Gloves Ski Jacket ( Simple warm or even down jacket wo n't do ) I am sure I am missing something on this list but this will be a good start .
Great idea ! Hiking in southern Poland is very popular , and there is thousands of hiking trails all over Carpathians . It all depends what you like and how high you wish to go , because there is huge variety of mountain ranges from mostly forest mts like Beskidy or Bieszczady ( around 1000-1500 m.a.s.l. ) to higher more rocky ranges like Tatry ( Tatra in English ) reaching 2500 m.a.s.l. Feel free to ask for details , I 'm quite familiar with many of them so I can advise you basing on your preferences and experience . Maybe one thing to have in mind is that currently the weather may not be as nice as in mid summer , but there are couple of nice days being forecast for this week .
Like you I only took chicken buses but there are some long distances options . For example from San Jose in Costa Rica you can go to Panama City ( 15 hours : 1pm or 10pm ) San Salvador ( 48 hours , 6am , 7:30 am ) or even Guatemala City ( 60 hours 6am , 7:30 am ) . However when looking at an <URL> it turns out the buses are stopping overnight in places in El Salvador and Nicaragua . It seems the only overnight route is from Costa Rica to Panama City . Of course there are options in the opposite direction as well . On of the main companies doing these routes is <URL> I never seen any domestic overnight bus routes , but then again I never looked for them . I have a rule ' No night buses '
Good news . As a British citizen , assuming you 're visiting for under 90 days , you do n't need a visa . You can apply through the Visa Waiver Program under the <URL> ( Electronic System for Travel Authorization ) . <URL> : British citizens : please note that from 12 January 2009 all nationals and citizens of Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) countries - including the UK - will be required by law to obtain an ESTA travel authorization prior to traveling to the United States under the VWP . Our Visa section has full details of this on their Visa Waiver Program &amp; ESTA . It 's very easy to apply , costs $ 14 , and is valid for 2 years . <URL> . I 've done two applications in the past 4 years , and both were approved within days ( normally immediately , but the first time had some issue with their system confirming payment had gone through ) .
end question
start question
Flight flown + operated by completely different , non-code-share airline ?
Airlines wet lease aircraft all the time ( wet lease being a lease that includes crew , maintenance , pilots , etc versus a dry lease which is aircraft only ) . If the lease is long term , then often the plane is painted to match the leasing airline 's look and flight crews are provided with uniforms . But if the lease is short term , say filling the need for an increase in flights during a certain season or perhaps a delay in delivery of a new aircraft , then the aircraft may not be repainted .
<URL> Just choose the Whole Month as departure and arrival date . You will be presented with a graphic in which you can pick the departure date , the arrival calendar will update accordingly .
A two-year tour of <URL> ( 962 places ) is now available , offered by a British luxury company . By the way , it costs about 1 million pounds . It claims to cover all the sites if they are safely accessible . <URL> lists some of the stops .
No , you can not transfer points between Star Alliance carriers . There are some mechanisms that can be used to transfer between specific carriers , such as <URL> , or transferring via a hotel program ( eg , carrierA - > hotel program - > carrierB ) , however these are generally poor value as you end up losing a significant number of points during the transfer ( s ) .
You can go the airport 's website . There you will usually find a list with the departures and the arrivals of the day and sometimes even the seasonal flight plan in pdf format . For Zurich , have a look at <URL> . Some airports have apps for smartphones and/or mobile versions of their websites which show live departures and arrivals.If you have a smartphone , you can then check immediately . This only works for commercial passenger flights . For cargo flights or private flights you will have to stick to a more classical method , and use e.g. an airliner identification book . For a recommendation , you could ask on a dedicated site , such as e.g. <URL> . Obviously , with this method you wo n't find out anything about destination or the provenance of the aircraft .
<URL> These are the <URL> as defined by ICAO . Looking at <URL> you can see that the ISO 3166-1 codes are used both to identify the issuing country as well as the nationality of the passport holder . So your cousin 's passport seems to be correct . For completeness sake note that ARE is also the NATO 3-letter code for United Arab Emirates .
The rules will apply to the operating carrier . ie , the one that is actually flying the flight - not the one that you booked with . EU Compensation applies to EU airlines regardless of where the flight is to/from , AND to non-EU airlines for flights DEPARTING an EU member state . eg , a Lufthansa flight between the US and Frankfurt would be covered in either direction , whilst a United flight would only be covered from Germany to the US and NOT in the other direction . So if you book a Lufthansa codeshare that was actually operated by United , then the regulations would apply only on the legs that depart from the EU , and not for any other legs as United is the operating carrier .
I believe that the oldest ones in service right now are on the <URL> , which is part of the South West Trains franchise . Not to be confused with the <URL> , the Island Line is a regular part of the UK rail network run as normal services . Because of the low ceiling of the Ryde Tunnel , the Island Line has a much smaller loading gauge than the rest of the UK mainline rail network , so has to use different trains . Today , those are <URL> , which are <URL> ! As explained in the <URL> The stock is around 75 years old , making it the oldest type in Great Britain to remain in regular service And they look like this , in their current ( returned to historic ) colour scheme :
While sites like Wikitravel do n't seem to help too much in this case , fortunately we can look at anecdotal evidence and quotes on VirtualTourist <URL> like <URL> . Quotes from these pages for a selection of clubs : " Dress Code : No jeans or sneakers/trainers , must be very fashionable . " " Dress Code : No Jeans , shorts , or flip flops !!!! " " Dress Code : Just do n't look like a COPLETE MUPPET !! " ( sic ) " Dress Code : Dress to kill , place is Ultra HIP !!!!! " " Dress Code : Casual Chic , everyone 's an expat or a chuppie ( chinese yuppie ) over here . " " Dress Code : Dress like a rich hobbit . The place here is small and the food/drinks come at a price . " " Dress Code : Trendy and stylish " " Dress Code : I dont know that there is a dress code but we did have proper evening attire on and fit right in . " " Dress Code : Your with the movers and shakers of the Hong Kong world !!!!! Dress to Impress is the word !!!!! " " Dress Code : Cool lounge wear - jeans are fine , flip flops are not noticeable but dress cool " So it sounds like for a lot of them , smart-casual is the plan , and given there 's some suggestion of style and smartening-up , personally I 'd pack town shoes .
The flight number has basically two parts , the first two characters identify the airline selling the flight and the remaining digits are the airline 's flight identifier . The first two digits are the IATA assigned airline code , which were originally based on the airlines name , ie : BA - British Airways , DL - Delta , etc. . But due to the proliferation of airlines , many newer carriers are simply assigned whatever 2 characters are available still ( including numerals , which are usually paired with one letter ) . The remaining characters ( anything from 1 to 4 ) are the airlines internal designator for that flight . Most airlines have a numbering system , such as 1 to 1999 for domestic flights , 2000-4999 for international flights , 5000 to 7999 for code share flights , etc. . But there is no standard , each airline creates their own . Likewise the airlines are free to choose how to assign flight numbers to a flight or series of flights . This aspect can be more confusing , because there is not much consistency even within a single carrier . A flight number can be assigned to a flight that just goes from A to B . A flight number can be assigned to a flight that goes from A to B to C ( even one that changes aircraft at B ) . A flight number can be assigned to a round trip going from A to B to A. Code share flight numbers can sometimes match the operating airline 's number or more often simply use the selling airline 's numbering system . The flight number used for air traffic control is different , as the airline portion is a three letter code combined with the original flight number . They also use the tail number , which is unique for each individual aircraft . Tail numbers are assigned based on rules of the country in which the aircraft is registered . Because of the numerous airlines cropping up , the three digit airline codes could soon be commonplace on the travelers side of the flight as well .
It 's true that you can often see details of the aircraft on the website now , so you could have some expectations or think you have a contractual agreement to be flown on that aircraft . But in practice , airlines merely promise a best effort to bring you somewhere and can and do do a lot of things ( switch airplanes , reschedule , cancel a flight outright , change the itinerary or even the means of transportation , etc. ) that impact the conditions in which you will travel . In this particular case , if you check Turkish airlines ' <URL> , you will read that Carrier undertakes to use its best efforts to carry the passenger and his or her baggage with reasonable dispatch and to adhere to published schedules in effect on the date of travel . That 's really pretty vague , they do n't promise much beyond getting you to your destination ( or , in fact , merely trying to get you to your destination ) . Even regulations on monetary compensations for significant delays or the right to be informed about the name of the airline operating the flight ( not the actual aircraft or aircraft type but simply the name of the airline ) are relatively recent so it does not seem they have to do more than that as far as the law is concerned . Note that in the EU , there are <URL> so it certainly seems rational for the airline to bring you as soon as possible to Madrid in a slightly less comfortable aircraft rather than wait for the other one to show up and possibly be liable to pay some compensation to all passengers .
I ca n't speak specifically to Lufthansa , but with some experience on other airlines - if you change your flight on a saver-style fare , you pay a change fee and the difference between the fares . If you are close to the date of travel the saver fares are generally sold out , so you are paying the difference between saver and flexi , and often a " we 've got limited seats " premium on top of that because of airline yield management , e.g. buying six months out may save you 500 euros or more compared to a change two weeks out . Looking at Lufthansa 's website , the same flight is 2,146 euros in two weeks time , so using that and your totals as an example , a late change might result in overall payment of : Obviously this is substantially more than the 1,300 euros for purchasing a flexi fare to begin with .
Not lots of airports , but lots of rich people : <URL> operates a regular flight between Nice airport and Monaco every 30mn . Fee is 105 $ from Monaco to Nice and 120 $ from Nice to Monaco , or 210 $ for both .
Your compensation , if any , is governed by the <URL> you agreed to by purchasing the ticket , which in this case states ( emphasis added ) RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS American will endeavor to carry you and your baggage with reasonable dispatch , but times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract . American may , without notice , substitute alternate carriers or aircraft and , if necessary , may alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket . Schedules are subject to change without notice . American is not responsible for or liable for failure to make connections , or to operate any flight according to schedule , or for a change to the schedule of any flight . Under no circumstances shall American be liable for any special , incidental or consequential damages arising from the foregoing . In the absence of any superseding regulation or legislation -- of which there is none , as the origin and connection are both in the U.S. , which <URL> -- American is not required to give you anything . Despite the new routing , they still fulfill their fundamental obligation , which is to transport you from city A to city B . At best , you could request a refund for the ticket -- though this would necessitate purchasing a new one , which being closer to departure is more likely to be more expensive . If you are an elite frequent flyer with them or on one of the more expensive fares , they may be willing to give you some miles or other token gestures for the inconvenience , but purely in the name of customer relations . Some version of this paragraph is included in most airlines ' contract of carriage . The airline is similarly under no legal obligation to compensate you , notably , for switching a nonstop flight to a connecting flight , a frequent complaint . The same goes for equipment changes -- you may have purchased a ticket expecting a widebody in a three-class international configuration , but have no recourse if it gets swapped for a one-class turboprop at the last minute .
Code sharing and alliances are two different animals . Code Sharing is when airline A blocks seats on airline B 's route from city XYZ to city DEF . Then sells those seats with airline A 's flight number . Airline A may only contract for one code share route with airline B or it may contract for 50 routes . Airlines can code share with whomever they wish , irregardless of alliances . And they choose the routes they feel match their marketing goals and customer 's needs . Alliances revolve more around joint marketing of all members , plus convenice of connecting travelers with fellow alliance members . And while alliance members frequently code share with each other , the majority of flights are exclusive to the operating carrier .
No you do n't need to apply for a new one if you change airlines or country of origin , the conditions that require you to reapply does not include change of airline or country of departure . You do n't need to update your US address either . From the <URL> ( conditions that require you to reapply for ESTA ) : You are issued a new passport , You change your name ( first and/or last ) You change your gender Your country of citizenship changes Your circumstances change , e.g. , you are convicted of a crime of moral turpitude or you develop a contagious disease . Such a change may require you to get a visa to travel to the U.S. . You must re-apply and your application must reflect the change in your circumstances or you may be denied entry upon arrival in the United States .
Not yet . The City has <URL> a 700 bike system with initial plans to open <URL> ( 2017 ) . There are , of course , <URL> options available in the meantime .
What you are trying to do is " hidden city ticketing " and it 's forbidden by AA 's <URL> , so I would not expect them to make it easy for you to accomplish this . I would think that if you try to split the itinerary , they will compute the total fare for one-way trips EWR-PHL and PHL-PIT and then charge you for the difference above what you have already paid , perhaps in addition to a change fee of $ 100 - $ 200 if your original ticket was non-refundable . So this is even worse than just changing your itinerary to PHL-PIT .
Let me start by saying that over the past few years I 've collected over $ 3000 in airline vouchers , plus a few hotel and meal vouchers , from volunteering for oversold flights . Unfortunately the specific questions you 've asked are hard to answer , as they vary between airlines , and often even individual airports/staff . In general all airlines will announce that they are looking for volunteers at the gate . Depending on factors such as how many people they are oversold they may start announcing this an hour or so before the flight , or they may only do it closer to the departure time . In addition , some airlines will offer to add you to the volunteer list during check-in , especially when using an airport kiosk to check-in . There 's also nothing to stop you simply going and asking - especially if it 's an airline where you can view the seat-map and see that the majority/all of the seats are taken . Although the seat-map is n't necessarily a good indication of how busy the flight it , it can still give a good idea , especially if the flight is full . I 've been bumped off several flights where they never announced that they were looking for volunteers - I got in before they had a need to announce it ! As far as compensation , it varies a lot depending on the airline . There are NO regulations on what they must offer for volunteered denied boarding , but most US airlines will start at a few hundred dollars , and then go up from there depending on the length of the flight , the length of the delay ( e.g. , you should get more for taking a flight 24 hours later than one 2 hours later ) , and how desperate they are to get people to volunteer . Sometimes you can ask them to sweeten the offer by putting you in business/first class on the later flight , although doing this may end up with them offering you less compensation . The compensation they offer will almost always be in the form of vouchers for future travel - not cash ! Sometimes there will be limitations to these vouchers ( the most common being that you often ca n't combine multiple sets of vouchers to use on a single flight ) . Frequent Flyer status sometimes help - again it depends on the airline and the specific staff . Even when the airline does n't have a specific policy around status , some gate agents will prefer to " bump " someone with higher status - partially because they see it as a benefit ( they are paying you , after all ! ) , but also because bumping a frequent traveler is likely to result in less problems . Many airline/staff will also give preference to people travelling without checked-in luggage . If you do have luggage checked , then depending on country and airline policies , it 's possible that your bags will travel on your original flight , which means they might sit around in the destination airport for some time before you arrive . I once volunteered off a flight to Miami and instead flew to Fort Lauderdale ( about 20 miles away ) , and then had to drive to Miami to pickup my luggage as they had n't been able to change it to the new flight . There are some big disadvantages to " volunteering " . Frequently you will be told to remain in the gate area during boarding in case they need you , only to be told that they do n't need you as another passenger did n't show up . You then end up being the last person to board , which may result in trouble finding overhead space , etc. . If you do get moved to a later flight , there 's a good chance you 'll end up finding yourself in a middle seat given how late you were booked onto that flight . Occasionally you can hit agents who make mistakes when rebooking you onto the new flight ( especially as they are normally busy with boarding your existing flight/etc ) , and find when you get to your new flight that you do n't actually have a confirmed booking on it ! Personally over the past few years I 've volunteered to be bumped dozens of times , and been successful about 8-10 times , including one occasion where I " double-bumped " as the flight they put me on after the first bump was also overbooked !! On some of those occasions I 've had replacement flights that landed a few minutes after my original flight , and on other occasions it 's been the next day ( with a hotel provided ) . Sometimes I 've ended up at the same airport I was supposed to go to , and sometimes to alternate airports ( Miami v 's Fort Lauderdale , San Francisco v 's San Jose ) . I 've had compensation of everywhere between $ 200 and $ 600 , and on occasion I 've received First class on the replacement flights - although on at least one occasion I 've also given up a first class seat and ended up in economy on a later flight !
First there is no legal requirement to have health insurance for anyone . Ireland has both a public and a private health system . Anyone can pay to see a doctor ( about 50 $ ) and you can go to a hospital as a private patient and pay for your treatment ( $ $ $ $ ) If you are an EU citizen OR are legally resident in Ireland you can avail of the ' free at the point of use ' public health system ( not actually free , as most people have to pay for GP doctors visits and prescribed drugs ) . This page has more details <URL>
end question
start question
If all I have are US dollars when I first arrive in the Philippines , is it okay to tip with that ?
In general I would always arrive in a country with a least a little local currency ( if it 's legal to do so , which it is n't always but is in the Philippines ) . There 's been a couple of times I 've been close to stranded on arrival because I did n't . You probably need money to get from the airport ( unless you 've pre-arranged transport ) , and exchanging money in the airport is n't the best deal ( plus the counters are n't always manned ) . In Manila airport there are ATMs just outside customs that will take international cards . You can certainly tip dollars , be aware that people will probably getting a very poor exchange rate for them . You 'll need to pay transport in pesos . Try and have some smaller bills if at all possible , taxis ( airport taxis in particular ) will often claim to have no change to force you to pay them 1000 pesos for the trip . ATMs will dispense down to 100 peso notes if you request an amount they ca n't make in larger notes .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
When your passport is filled , you get a new one , new number and the old one is cancelled . They do not " continue " . If you have long term visas in your old passport , you can bring the old passport as well as the new one when you travel to those destinations .
It 's very easy , and a quick google search for ' antipode ' and ' map ' will find sites that find it for you . For example , <URL> either detects your location , or you can enter one , and it 'll show you on a zoomable map where your antipodal destination is . Unfortunately as shown by <URL> , only about <URL> , and only a tiny fraction of Brazil is antipodal to Japan ( in fact , to the islands of Okinawa and Amami ) . A rather larger amount of Brazil ( but still a small fraction of the country as a whole ) is antipodal to the Philippines and Indonesia , along with Brunei , parts of Malaysia and the South Korean island of Jeju . Without knowing your exact location I ca n't be sure where it ends up . I 'll leave that last step up to you ! Another <URL> site shows it quite nicely side by side . I can click and zoom in on New Zealand and the other window zooms in at the same time to show me northern Spain - the antipode .
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
For wait staff at restaurants : from 10 % -20 % , depending on quality of service . For the bell-hops ( the person that takes your bags to your room ) : $ 2 + ( $ 1/bag , with a $ 2 minimum ) . <URL>
You have bumped into one of the Spanish habits . In Spain there are a lot of people that wake up early just to leave their things at the beach/pool and then go back to bed . It 's like planting a flag saying " hey , this is my territory and you should keep away " . I hate this behaviour of my fellow countrymen . What to do ? At the beach , there is a recent law that forbids doing this . The pools are different though because they are private spaces . The rule of thumb should be : if there 's no space available , wait 5 minutes and remove one of the towels that is not wet ( because it could show you that it is in use ) and has nothing more in the surroundings , like bags , flip-flops , etc. . Leave the towel over other not-really-busy sunbed . This wo n't stand surety for not to discuss with the towel owner , but decreases the chances . Even at the beach , I 've had discussions where the law has assisted me .
ESTA stands for " Electronic System for Travel Authorization " . The key word here is " Electronic " . This refers not only to the fact that the ESTA is applied for online , but also to the fact that it is checked electronically . When you checked-in for your flight to the US , the airline would have electronically confirmed that you had an ESTA , and thus you were allowed to board the flight . When you went through immigration in the US , the immigration officer would have confirmed that you had an ESTA , and thus you were allowed to enter the country . If you did not have an approved ESTA you would not have been allowed board the plane , and if somehow you had made it onto the plane you would not have been allowed past immigration . Once you are past immigration your ESTA is no longer relevant - instead the stamp in your passport becomes the proof that you are allowed be in the country , and controls when you must depart by . Taking a print-out of the ESTA is a good idea , but it 's simply a backup in case there are any issues - in general the entire ESTA process is automated , and as you 've experienced , once approved is completely transparent .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
The answer depends on 4 things : How you are getting to the airport What airline you 're flying with How frequent the flights on that route are How good your travel insurance is If you have great travel insurance , are on a route with one flight roughly ever hour , and are just hopping on the tube for 20 minutes to get there , then arriving just before you 're airline 's cut-off time is probably fine . If you 're taking two trains a bus on a 3 + hour journey , with travel insurance that is n't very good about missed departure compensation , to take a once-a-day flight , I 'd say aim to be there at least 3 hours before The close of baggage check and at-desk checkin times varies between airlines . BA , for example , have a <URL> , AA <URL> , so check with your specific airline to see what they require . Security queues can be bad at Heathrow , but not as bad as you find at some other airports world-wide . I often grumble about the Heathrow ones , but frankly I 've had worse at JFK and Seattle recently ! If you 're a frequent traveller who knows how to properly unpack your bag , take out liquids properly , already has liquids in a suitable bag etc , you should be fine within the minimum checkin times . For less frequent travellers , I 'd say 1 hour should be OK . The question then is more about possible delays getting to the airport . You need to leave enough time so that if you get delayed , you wo n't miss the flight . The 2-3 hour figure tends to be more about that , at least for Heathrow . Think about what could go wrong , what 's likely to go wrong , backup options , delay lengths etc. . Then , check your travel insurance , and see what they require . If your travel insurance wo n't cover missed departures due to delays getting to the airport , go for 3 hours minimum unless really close . If your travel insurance says you must have aimed for 2.5 hours before if they 'll cover it , obviously leave 2.5 hours ! Finally , there are shops airside in T3 , and some restaurants , so it 's not the end of the world if you get there with lots of time to spare . There are also some lounges you can pay to enter ( the No. 1 Traveller lounge in T3 is very nice , for example ) . If you have status or are travelling in a premium cabin , that could be a reason to get there extra early so you can enjoy the lounge more ! There is no universal answer
So I found an answer in a <URL> , although someone may have a more detailed route , especially as it gets closer to the Olympics themselves .
The answer is yes , but you will have to speak a bit slower to most Brazilians , since they are not so used to listening to Portuguese with " Portuguese accent " . The other way around is easier because Portuguese people are used to listen to Brazilian accent in soap operas . In Angola , Mozambique , etc. differences also exist but the understanding might be a bit easier due to several cultural and historical reasons . There are also some minor differences in word spelling and meaning between country 's but if you learn Portuguese in any Portuguese speaking country it should be easy to overcome those differences . With the orthographic agreement recently settled these changes are fading away . There will still be differences in pronunciation and even specific words in each country , specially in colloquial language , but that 's the beauty of a language , it 's live and dynamic . There are actually very nice , lets call them , regional terms in each countrys : Portuguese / Angola : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> ( a very nice article , unfortunatly in Portuguese , where some minor gramar explanations and some idiomatic expressions ) These are just 2 examples . But I am sure you can find them also for Mozambique , S , Tome and Princepe , Guine Bissau , Cape Verde , India ( Goa ) , Timor and Macau .
The answer will depend significantly on what country you 're traveling to . As you have n't listed that , this is just a general answer and may vary depending on the specifics . In general , as long as the medications in question are legal to possess in the country you 're traveling to , and as long as you are carrying documentation to show that you are allowed to posses the medications in your home country , then you are fine . Documentation could include a prescription for the specific medication you 're carrying , a letter from your doctor , labels on the container with your name on them - or preferably multiple of these . This documentation should in the language of the country you 're visiting , or if that 's not possible then in English . Most countries will limit you to carrying a " reasonable " quantity . Obviously what that entails depends on the specific circumstances , but if you 're in a country for 3 days , and you bring a 3 month supply , that would probably not be considered a reasonable quantity . Most countries do NOT require you to declare medications that fall into the above category , however always check the immigration/customs form you need to fill out to see if there are any questions regarding such medications , in which case you should obviously answer " yes " . Of course , you can always be over-cautious and declare them to customs even if not required - although that will likely do little more than cause a delay . Obviously if you are going to declare them , it is best to refer to them as " medications " and not " drugs " , as that 's likely to have negative connotations . Again , this is a general answer that WILL vary from country to country .
Given a train + plane TGVAir journey , it seems that taking the train is mandatory to validate the electronic plane ticket for the second leg of the journey . Quoting from <URL> : J’ai raté mon train ou je souhaite me rendre directement à l’aéroport . Que se passe-t-il ? Si votre voyage commence par un trajet en train , il est impératif de vous présenter en gare de départ au comptoir TGV AIR pour valider votre billet électronique . Dans le cas contraire , la compagnie aérienne se réserve la possibilité d'annuler l'ensemble de votre réservation , avec une pénalité pouvant aller jusqu ' à 100 % du montant de votre billet . Which roughly translates to : I missed my train and I plan to travel directly to the airport . What happens next ? If your trip begins with a train journey , it is mandatory to present yourself at the departure station TGV AIR counter to confirm your e-ticket . Otherwise , the airline reserves the right to cancel your entire reservation , with a penalty of up to 100 % of the cost of your ticket .
There 's a bit of per-country variation , but the rule of thumb across Western Europe is that service charges are already included in the bill ( sometimes as a separate line item , sometimes not ) and it 's not necessary to tip in addition to this . If you must , and you usually would n't unless the service is really good , rounding up a euro or two to the nearest suitable number is sufficient . This is usually done only with cash , since the kind of places that accept credit cards tend to also be the kind of places with hefty service charges already in the bill , but you can usually tip by credit card as well the same way you would in the US : just write in the amount after tip and sign . Wikipedia has a fairly handy <URL> . Edit : Sigh . The OP asked about tipping in " Western Europe " , I 've summarized the rule for " Western Europe " , which is that tipping is generally not necessary . Of course there are exceptions and not every restaurant and every country is exactly the same , hence the link to Wikipedia , but the key point is that , unlike the US , you never have to leave 15 % in addition to the bill .
<URL> do not mention this , and <URL> seems to argue that you can use just the return journey without taking the outward train . According to several users , return tickets are treated like two singles and are therefore independent .
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
I am curious , though , if a US citizen could potentially * be prosecuted upon returning home for " breaking US laws while on foreign soil " . Yes . The U.S. maintains embargoes against <URL> . Many of these include travel restrictions . The U.S. government generally <URL> that U.S. citizens are liable for taxes , regardless of where they live . Many countries have tax treaties with the U.S. that in some cases reduces or eliminates this burden , but in general , if you are a U.S. citizen and you make enough money in a foreign country , the U.S. government will expect you to pay U.S. taxes . ( Here 's a Wall Street Journal blog entry on the subject : " <URL> " ) It is against U.S. law ( the <URL> ) to bribe foreign officials . I would also guess that the U.S. sometimes has jurisdiction in foreign countries . Obvious examples would be military bases and embassies , but perhaps also in matters pertaining to U.S.-registered ships and aircraft ( ?? ) . References <URL>
I did n't want to just provide anecdotal notes , but since Mark Mayo encouraged it here are some -- I 've been to several weddings in the Philippines and I 've heard about many more . The short answer to your question is : it varies . Wildly . A lot of what the Wikipedia page says can happen , but none of it is guaranteed -- weddings are really up to the couple , their family and are often bound by how much money they have . Weddings may be in a church , a resort , a hotel or on a beach , etc. . Similarly the reception may be in the same place , or a different place an hours drive away . There are some pointers I can give you -- for what it 's worth Mark 's advice is excellent . Dress Code Dress smart , you will be OK with a little less formal than you might do for a western wedding -- and remember it 's hot and humid here so you 'll be more comfortable . Philippine men wear a <URL> , you 'll be fine not wearing one and should n't worry about it unless you really want to or you 've been asked specifically to wear one . A white shirt , with smart trousers and nice shoes is fine -- I tend to wear a tie because I think it 's appropriate but you 'll get away without one in all but the most formal weddings . Jacket is optional -- chances are you 'll be too hot with it on . Ceremony If it 's a catholic ceremony it 'll likely be like many others , with slight differences here or there . It 'll likely be on the long side , and depending what they do there are parts where you 're supposed to do or say something particular . You 'll be able to pick it up easily enough and it 's likely to be a lot less uptight and rigid than you might expect . Traditions/Gifts I 'm assuming you 're not part of the ceremony , bear in mind that there 's an extended group of ' sponsors ' who are involved . If you are one you 'll be told what to do , but you 'll probably be expected to give some money to the family ( in a sealed envelope normally , someone will probably point out the right time ) . Otherwise any normal gift is fine , including a card with cash which will be greatly appreciated and is n't frowned upon as it is in some places . Local currency please , whatever you 're comfortable with , do n't go overboard . There may or may not be speeches . Do n't expect anything like the traditional western format of father , best man , groom ( is that the order ? ) , more likely a few people will say some words . Speeches may or may not be in Tagalog , most likely they 'll be in a hybrid of Tagalog and English ( Taglish ) . Reception Receptions can be quite basic , there will be food , there may or may not be alcohol . Food might be catered , brought by guest pot-luck style or cooked by the family . It 'll likely be buffet style . If you 're lucky ( and can eat pork ) there 'll be <URL> -- if it 's a buffet head for that first , everyone else will . Food is a good point -- if you have dietary restrictions you need to let the family know and possibly be prepared to eat in advance . Purely vegetarian dishes are rare ( dishes may be only vegetable but there 's likely meat in any stock ) . Similarly some common western allergies are just not common here and so are n't catered for . Some receptions end after the food but you say it 's a party -- so expect music and dancing . Expect a lot of cameras and picture taking . Possibly a roving video guy asking for soundbites from guests . Just relax and enjoy . Nobody will judge you . People will make an effort to talk to you and find out more about you . Everyone will appreciate the effort you made to travel . I ca n't think of anything you could do that would offend anyone accidentally . A few other things you may want to consider : Timing -- depending how far you have to go make sure you have enough time . Traffic can be pretty bad and it can easily take you three times longer than it looks like it should . Arrive early , but expect things to run late . Make sure you know how you 're getting between the two places if necessary . Weather -- it 's rainy season now , it almost certainly will rain at some point every day . And it 'll rain a lot . If there 's any chance you 'll be caught outside have an umbrella with you . Mosquitoes -- again if you 'll be outside consider wearing and taking insect repellent . I would n't worry so much about disease but they 're annoying as hell if they take a liking to you .
end question
start question
What time of year is best for taking the Trans-Siberian Express ?
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
I 've been told by friends who have worked with cruise lines that you can always just try calling on the day , or the night before , and can often get an astonishing deal . ( It does n't always work , though . )
Once you go outside of your home country the vast majority of ATM transactions are handled via either the Visa or MasterCard owned networks . Even where they are handled via other mechanisms , you can pretty much presume that any ATM which is going to to allow international cards to be used is going to be a part of the Visa and/or MasterCard networks . This is true regardless of whether the card is a Credit Card , a Visa/MasterCard logoed Debit Card , or just a plain bank ATM card with the Plus , Maestro or Cirrus logos on the back . Both Visa ( Plus ) and MasterCard ( Maestro/Cirrus ) have features on their websites where you can search a specific city anywhere in the world to find ATMs that will work with any Visa/MasterCard cards . Presuming your ATM card is marked with either a MasterCard , Maestro or Cirrus logo then it should work at any of the ATMs listed on the <URL> . Mastercard also have a <URL> for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry . If it 's marked with either a Visa , Electron or Plus logos , then it should work at any ATM on the <URL> , or on the <URL> .
I was thinking a long time on how to best answer this question . Despite the tininess of Liechtenstein I think it is nevertheless necessary to concentrate on one specific part . So I wrote three answers in one . The first for persons who are interested in cultural life , the second for people how focus on some sports and the last one for people who want to party ! ( Yes that 's possible in Liechtenstein ;) ) Cultural Activities If you 're interested in cultural activities I would start the time with an aperitif at the prince 's winery . This winery is called <URL> . Since the prince has bought the country in 1712 he owns some vineyards . The result you can try and buy at the Hofkellerei . The wines are widely known in the region and you can particularly get Pinot Noir and Chardonnay there . After testing some wines I would stroll around the old town of Vaduz . It is n't really big but you can see there some old houses . In the afternoon you can visit a famous art gallery called <URL> . There you can see modern and contemporary art and also some of the prince 's private collection . In the evening you can go to one of the best restaurants in Liechtenstein . The <URL> is n't really a budget solution , but it really offers good food . It is located just above the prince 's vineyard and it is his majesty restaurant . The Lonely Planet writes : " The garden terrace enjoys a wonderful perspective of the castle above , while the ancient , wood-lined interior is cosy in winter " . Party time If you 're looking for some partying I would make sure to visit on August , 15th , the national holiday of Liechtenstein . We 're celebrating then the birthday of the former prince that is not living anymore . In the morning you can go to visit the prince in the garden of his castle . This is n't as boring as it sounds since you get there free beer and wine . There will be enough , since the prince is n't poor . It is assumed that he owns more than 5 billions swiss francs . From lunch on there is a big public party in whole Vaduz . You can drink , eat , dance , talk , etc there and it lasts until early morning . As soon as it gets dark , there is another gift from the prince ;) A firework is started at the castle that can be seen from the whole valley and lasts for approximately 40 minutes . ( This pictures says more or less : Hail to God , the prince and the fatherland ! ) Sports If you 're a sportive guy I would recommend to do a daylong hike in the mountains and then go watch a soccer game in Vaduz . Start early in the morning in <URL> . There a really famous hike route starts that will you guide through sheer mountains along the border between Liechtenstein and Austria . Almost the whole path is built out of rock and a lot of steel ropes are necessary to make it save for hikers . You will also have to climb some ladders . At the end of the route you have the possibility to mount three sisters . No joke , the mountain is called three sisters ( Drei Schwestern in German ) and it is one of the most famous mountains in this region . Judging from the picture above it is not sure that you can easily access it , but if you 're free from giddiness it is n't a real problem . I added another picture to show you the situation on the path : If you 're interested in this tour , I can recommend a <URL> that describes a lot of mountain tours in the Alps . It is not only useful for Liechtenstein , but also for Switzerland , Germany and Austria . In the evening when you 're back in Vaduz , I would recommend to go to a soccer game . I would choose a game against a very famous opponent . <URL> , but from time to time there are some attractive opponents , e.g. Germany , Spain , Portugal or England . All past games can be found <URL> . The actual events will be posted on the <URL> of the Liechtenstein soccer association .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
Clicking " show more " below the video you will read : The Performance of Russian guitarist Estas Tonne at the Buskers Festival Stadtspektakel in Landshut in September 2011 in the Old Town with " The Song of the Golden Dragon " . . The shoe store " Lipp " and the Commerzbank in the video give away the precise address : Altstadt 76 , Landshut , Germany . Here is a link to the website of the <URL> . It is also shown ( among others ) during the last seconds of the video .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
I had to deliver exactly that some months ago . It is right what you described , and it makes not much sense at all , but that 's what they want . A ' notary public ' is a very common side-qualification , every office has typically one or two people that carry it . What you do is make photocopies of your ( Green Card ) , the go to a Notary Public show your ID , and sign in front of the notary public that you confirm that the copy is identical with the original they give you a seal that confirms that they saw your ID and they saw you signing . Note that the seal does not need to be on the photocopy ( but it can ) . This was accepted without questions , and - I asked them - that 's what they wanted . Of course , that leaves various obvious avenues of cheating - you can bring a picture of your dog instead of the requested photocopy , and the notary public would not care ; and you can replace the photocopies after the sealed stamp is signed , as they are on different - not physically connected - sheets of paper . The core point is that you signed it , and the notary just verifies that is was you that signed . If anything turns out wrong or fishy , they know whom to talk to - you signed it for correctness . There are probably better ways - like have the notary public make the photocopies and put the seal physically onto them - but that is not what is done in the USA . For whatever reasons .
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
Many airlines will send out periodic mailings detailing points promotions and/or discounted/special fares . There is - of course - no guarantee that the flight you want will come up on sale , but every now and then you 'll also get coupon codes for double miles , 10 % off , etc. , which can also be very helpful . To opt into these mailings , check your online profile settings for your miles program ( s ) . ( for example , to opt into American Airlines mailings , log into your account at <URL> , click on " My Account " at the top , and then click on the " Email and Fare Alerts " tab on the following page )
Obviously " best " is always subjective and depends on the particular person , but ... Having done 1-day stopover trips in Hong Kong a few times over the past few years ( including a 22 hour stopover there 2 weeks ago ! ) , my vote would be for the area on one side or other of Victoria Harbour - either the Kowloon/Nathan road area on the north side , or Causeway Bay/Connaught Road area on the south . Both of these areas have excellent access to the Airport via either the Airport train ( quicker and more predictable , but a little more expensive at HK$ 100 each way ) or via bus . Both have access to the harbour , including various tourist favorites like the Star Ferry , The Peak Tram , shopping on Nathan Road , the Temple Street Night Market , etc. . Public transport in Hong Kong is very easy to use , and regardless of which side of the harbour you end up on getting between the two sides is easy . Taxi 's are also relatively cheap - a trip up to a few kilometres will cost you only HK$ 20 ( about USD$ 2.50 ) so even if your hotel is n't right next to the train stations it 's easy to get around . There are obviously countless other areas of Hong Kong you could visit , but unless you 've been there before and already seen the sites around the harbour area then I would n't suggest going anywhere else - especially given your limited time on the ground . If there 's a negative about this area ( and all of HK to some extent ) it 's that hotels can be relatively expensive . There are cheap options available , but make sure you read up on the reviews on sites like TripAdvisor as some of them can be fairly poor quality . Unless you 're staying in a 4 + star hotel you can expect to get a small room little larger than a bed , most likely without a window - but for such a short trip that should be all you need !
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
The " Express " here is for express buses , which serve parts of the " outer " boroughs that are not well served by subways . These buses have a higher fare . Express trains in the subway system do not have a higher fare . Your fare card is checked when you swipe it in the turnstile to enter the system . Once you 're in , you 're in . You can stay as long as you like and ride as many trains ( express or otherwise ) as you like . Why did n't you just ask someone on the platform ? You would have learned very quickly that you could take the express trains .
Count your Metro Trips The only metric I would use when budgeting public transportation costs in Rome is the number of metro journeys you think you 'll travel per day . The reason is simple : <URL> . In other words , if you exit the metro and still have some time to spare on the ticket , you wo n't be allowed to use it again on another metro trip . The Roma 24-hour ticket costs 4.67 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 24 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 5 or more times per day , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 5 single BIT tickets , since you 'd be saving money . Similarly , the Roma 48-hour ticket costs 8.33 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 48 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 9 or more times in two days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 9 single BIT tickets . Finally , the Roma 72-hour ticket costs 12 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 72 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 12 or more times in three days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 12 single BIT tickets . Frankly , most of the times I just stick with BIT tickets , since I usually only need 2 metro trips per day . Moreover , you 'll probably be walking more than you 'll be taking public transport , once you get to your designed tourist area .
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
From at least <URL> : Whether clocks stay set on " ship " time or are changed as the vessel moves through time zones depends on the ship , the itinerary , and the time of year so it 'll depend on the company you use , and the zone of the ship and where it travels during the tour . Most ships adhere to the time zone they are in and clocks are set forward or back to adhere to local time . Passengers are also advised to change their watches to the ' correct ' time -- there is usually a reminder card on your pillow before you go to bed . However , not all ships do that , particularly in the Caribbean ! Some ships stay on " ship " time , which can be different from " island " time . So the best authority is the ship itself , and they 'll know from experience that people get it wrong , and will do their best to ensure you do n't miss the boat . From friends who have travelled on a cruise ship in the Mediterranean , breakfast and lunch could be literally ' whenever we wanted ' - there was often a buffet . <URL> has seating times for dinner that you can request , and for breakfast , say , on their ship <URL> : Breakfast times vary daily , so please check the Personal Navigator -- the Disney Cruise Line daily newsletter detailing all there is to see and do -- for specific dates and times while onboard . So yes , times can change , and meal times can change accordingly as well , so in the end you 'll have to check with your operator and whether they have any special time-operations on the ship you 're travelling on .
HSBC , then Credit Cards , then Banks There 's over 10 % difference between the best ( HSBC ) and the worst ( Travelex ) , so doing your homework can earn you several more cervezas ! This was a relatively small sample size , so if you want to be absolutely sure , call your own banks and credit cards . Best : Credit Cards A ) Credit Card Payments Each of the following includes a 2.5 % exchange fee MXN$ 4914 from RBC Infinite Avion Visa MXN$ 4913 from BMO Airmiles Mastercard MXN$ 4813 from Platinum Airmiles Amex B ) Credit Card ATM Withdrawals Each of the following includes a per-transaction fee and ignores cash advance interest charges MXN$ 4870 from BMO Airmiles Mastercard ( C$ 3.50 fee ) MXN$ 4853 from RBC Infinite Avion Visa ( C$ 5.00 fee ) MXN$ 4780 from Platinum Airmiles Amex ( C$ 2.75 fee ) Second Best : Canadian Banks Amounts listed are for in-person currency purchases in Canadian bank branches for customers of the bank . There may be extra charges if you are not a customer of these banks or if you withdraw MXN using an ATM in Mexico . MXN$ 4967 from <URL> MXN$ 4768 and a limit of C$ 500 if non-customer ( 4 % fee ) MXN$ 4689 from <URL> MXN$ 4673 from <URL> No additional fees if Scotiabank or <URL> customer using a <URL> ! MXN$ 4667 from <URL> Worst : Canadian Currency Counters MXN$ 4674 from <URL> Includes $ 3.50 transaction fee . MXN$ 4653 from <URL> MXN$ 4444 from <URL> Actual Value : Current Exchange Rate <URL> tells me that C$ 400 is currently worth MXN$ 4985 . Note : In my answer , I use specific dollar amounts . These amounts were accurate as of April 16-17 , 2015 , but obviously exchange rates fluctuate . More important than the specific dollar amounts is the differences between these methods , so even if the numbers are obsolete the answer to the question ( the best way to convert these currencies ) wo n't change .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Why is the Lonely Planet Mongolian phrasebook so small ?
Very roughly speaking , the size of any non-fiction book is determined by two competing factors : the publisher wants to print as little as possible to reduce costs ( not just printing , but writing , editing , layout etc ) and sell it at the highest price possible , while the reader wants to buy as big a book as possible at the lowest price possible . And the marketplace works out an equilibrium somewhere in the middle . For guidebooks ( and phrasebooks ) , the amount of content necessary is determined by the size of the place and its popularity with tourists . Mongolia is small ( populationwise ) , rather obscure , and there is n't a whole lot of competition , so books will tend towards the skinnier end of the spectrum . Source : I used to work for several guidebook publishers .
Passports are your ID when traveling globally . Driver licenses and national IDs are not always accepted as a form of ID in many countries . As such everyone who needs to verify your identification will ask to see your passport . For flights to the USA , there is often several layers of security employed . The first is a security check before you reach the check in counter , with a number of questions regarding destination , what you might be carrying etc. . They will check your passport . When you check in for the flight , the airline will need to document your identity ( via your passport ) and also if you have the proper visas or permissions to enter the country , as the airline will be fined if they knowingly board you without proper documents . Departing Immigration is only concerned about your visit to their country , they could care less if you are permitted to enter the next destination . At the gate , another layer of the US imposed security will again check your passport , boarding pass and sometimes even look through your carry on bags . They may also ask if you have the necessary documentation to enter the country . Why this last security check ... because you could give your boarding pass to someone else after you have checked in , someone who has less than desirable ideas in mind . And as I mentioned in my comment , it is impossible for any of these people to know all the rules for all the passports that might be presented . Too many rules and exceptions .
Here 's the official announcement from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs : <URL> . There 's no reason given for the increase . In the warnings for Turkish citizens travelling to foreign countries , I do n't see anything about visa rates for Australia having gone up , whereas there are announcements about changes for other countries .
I 've been unable to find anything that is definitively less than 20 people , but there are a few promising options . Day trips between Boston and New York typically leave around 7 a.m. and bring you back to your starting city around anywhere between 7 p.m. and 11 p.m. ( that 's scheduled only - do expect delays due to traffic and construction , as the entire route is extremely heavily traveled ) . About $ 150-160 per person ( including children ) seems to be the going rate for transporation + guide , though you 'll have to pay food and possibly some admission fees on your own . <URL> has 1-day trips from NYC to Boston for about $ 149 per person . These tours are available year-round , are fully-guided , and provide transportation in either a bus or van . I could n't find any information about the typical size of groups ; they clearly do small groups since one of the transportation options is a van , but I do n't know if they cap tour numbers or just decide the vehicle based on how many spots are booked . <URL> has day trips that are about 12 hours long , but they are only offered on Fridays and Saturdays . These are also $ 149 per person ( child and adult ) . The majority of their services are tours within New York City , and that 's what all of the reviews I found were for . Those tours feature large , " hop on , hop off " buses or serve large groups . I have n't been able to find any information about what size groups they take for day trips , but I can tell you that after growing up in the Boston area , currently living in NYC , and frequently traveling between the two , I suspect the day trips are much smaller groups - I 've never seen CitySights ' distinctive huge blue buses outside of the city . <URL> offers day trips from NYC to Boston on Fridays and Sundays for $ 149 + per person . Also unclear what the typical tour group size is , but they mention luggage restrictions for tours by van , so you may be able to request a smaller group . Honestly , if you 're willing to spend $ 200-250 per person , you 're really better off booking your transportation to and from Boston separately from a tour . Bus is by far the cheapest way to get between the two cities ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> / <URL> , and <URL> tend to run $ 20-40 per person round trip ) , and you 'll have a LOT of choices for when you leave and come back . Just make sure you pay attention to whether you 're booking a reserved seat ( good only for your selected route/time ) or if you 're booking a ticket that can be used for any departure that day . All of those companies will pick you up and drop you off at convenient , central locations . Once you 're in Boston , you can tour at your own pace . Many historic sites that tours would take you on are free ( like Quincy Market/Faneuil Hall , Harvard Square , Boston Common , etc. ) , but if you 're looking for some history you can purchase audio guides . ( The <URL> has an audio guide you purchase online for $ 15 and download to an mp3 player in advance , for instance , and you can do the <URL> . ) My recommendation would be to book your own transportation at times convenient for you , take a look at the itineraries of some of the tour companies , and build your own custom tour . It 's the only thing that really makes sense if you do n't want to be slowed down by a large group but want to get some more in-depth knowledge than you 'd get just by wandering around reading the ( sometimes sparse ) signage .
Airlines have a pricing strategy known as " yield management " or " revenue management " - they charge less for some seats than others , and expect these seats to be bought a long time in advance . They know that only a certain percentage of their customers are able to buy seats well in advance , and that those customers would n't fly if they could n't get inexpensive seats . A speculator could buy a $ 100 ticket and then offer it on eBay close to the flight date for $ 200 . If more than half the seats this speculator bought were sold this way , the speculator would be making money . But the airline , which wants to sell seats close to the flight date for $ 500 , would not . In fact very quickly the speculator enjoying selling 75 % of tickets for $ 200 would see it fall to 0 % because of another speculator selling them for $ 150 , and then later another for $ 110 and so on . This is just how reselling markets tend to work . By insisting that a ticket is not a commodity to be bought , traded , resold , and passed around from hand to hand , the airline is able to keep its complicated pricing structure in place . Overall , this is a good thing , because those last-minute high-price tickets cover a LOT of the cost of the flight - their existence is what keeps the long-advance-notice tickets so cheap !
I used to travel a lot I would say that you can also take : some handmade laces from Koniakow , what is a world known place with the tradition of over 200 years of lace making handmade christmas or eastern decorations made of straw - very light :D another option for you would be some amber . All thoses products you can find in " CEPELIA " in the shops spread all over Poland that are promoting local decorative handicraft and design .
I am not too sure about the " despite colonization " bit . I ca n't really see a pattern , one way or the other . Some ex-British colonies offer visas on arrival for British citizens ( e.g. Kenya ) , some do n't ( e.g. India ) and most treat <URL> or <URL> in exactly the same way . And then for some reason , Luxembourgish and Finnish citizenships -- but not British citizenship -- are the only ones in Europe to enable a visa on arrival in India . At the end of the day , the <URL> ( <URL> ) has British citizens tied with Swedes and Finns and not far above citizens from a host of other European nations , Australia , the US and Canada . So the small differences that do exist might simply be accidents and the main fact in all this is that citizens from rich nations generally have easier access to other countries , whatever their colonial history . Explanations for that might include the fact that it 's good for business and tourism or that these countries have more means to secure agreements through diplomacy , foreign aid , etc. . One glaring difference between UK and US citizens ( lack of visa-free visit or at least visa-on-arrival for Brazil ) might however be explained . I ca n't find an official source for that right now but I think Brazil has a strict reciprocity policy and only grants visa-free access to citizens of countries that do the same for Brazilian citizens . Brazilian citizens <URL> but <URL> .
Cars with manual transmissions are simply more popular in Europe . While the cost of automatic cars is usually higher by a small percentage that does not make up for the difference . What allows rental agencies to increase rental fees is that automatic cards are a specialized demand which is almost exclusively catered to tourists . Locals are most likely to look for manual transmissions since that is more prevalent . When renting to tourists the cost of ownership of the car , from the point of view of the rental agency , must be divided by the volume of tourists renting which is likely lower than that of locals . One place where this is taken yet a step further is Iceland where the cost of automatic car rentals is quite expensive . They have a very short tourist season , around 3 months , where they most cover their costs and accumulate profits . The large fleets of rental cars remains largely unused the remainder of the year . That is exactly what the explained to me when I commented about how much more costly it was to rent a car there .
things I do occasionally with my towel while traveling : fold it to a pillow at night , or cover any ( stained ) pillows i encounter in cheap hostels/motels place wet clothes on one half , then wrap the other half over it and sleep on it , and the clothes should be dry next morning as a beach towel group loose or dirty/wet items together in your backpack fold it a couple of times and rest my arm on it while driving ( the armrest in my car door vibrates too much ) cover the steering wheel while you park your car in the sun , so it wo n't get hot use it as blanket so you wo n't get sunburn make it wet and wrap it around your neck if you go hiking in summer strangle the noisy , drunk backpacker who walks into the dorm at 3am , yelling , slamming doors and waking everyone up or i just dry myself after a shower with it
One reason is that not every country has computerised their passport/visa system . They 're coming along , but still . In addition , not every country 's system is linked together . So even if you scanned it in at one border , you ca n't tell that 's happened at the next . Crossing into Zambia in 2005 , they opened their book to the date , drew in a line for New Zealanders , and literally crossed off 5 lines ( | | | | with a -- through the four vertical lines ) . It costs a LOT of money . Some countries ca n't afford the investment to get all those systems built , and staff trained to use them . It 's cheaper to hire some chap who can ask questions and cross off lines in a book . So given all the different computer and paper based systems , the only way to transmit the fact that you have a visa , is to carry a piece of paper - ie , a stamp/visa . However , it 's improving . With the arrival of those smart passports with chips in them , we now have a common way of having data stored electronically and ( mostly ) securely . Next that needs to turn into visas . New Zealanders arriving home ( or visiting Australia ) can merely walk to a barrier , scan our chipped passports , get a photo taken and walk through . British citizens arriving home can have their iris scanned , no stamp required . So these are slowly changing , but will take time . In the meanwhile , you get to collect cool stamps ! :)
I can answer this for the UK and Schengen members ... In the first instance , consulates take your passport because there are <URL> is issued . Prominent among those are ... Paragraph 24 , which states ... The following must produce to the Immigration Officer a valid passport or other identity document endorsed with a United Kingdom entry clearance issued to him for the purpose for which he seeks entry : ... Paragraph 27 , which states ... An application for entry clearance is to be decided in the light of the circumstances existing at the time of the decision ... Paragraph 28 , which states ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application ... ( These rules are all found at <URL> ) From these it 's clear that they need to take possession of the travel document in order to assess its validity . And from Paragraphs 27 and 28 they need to be sure that the conditions of issuance are ' fixed ' to a specific date and time . It means that the applicant has not travelled with the passport in the interval between submission and issuance , and ( to the extent possible ) the applicant is not in the UK when the decision is made . In addition , the Entry Clearance Officer has to assess the application . These things can not be done ' while-you-wait ' and holding the passport helps to guarantee that Paragraphs 24 , 27 , and 28 are diligently observed . There are some practical and administrative considerations that come into play ... Those visa stickers are affixed to the passport page by a machine and there 's usually one machine per post . The passports need to be sequenced , fed in to the machine , and then checked by a human . This is done as a background task by local hires who may be on shift work in a batch . Trying to arrange a batch according to whoever showed up is administratively impractical . In the UK case , they do n't like people hanging around the consulate , they like to make the decision entirely by paper-based evidence ( they really do not like to engage the public directly for various reasons not worth going in to here ) . Moreover , the security is not staffed up for lengthy queues . So they use a VFS to ring-fence the consulate from engaging directly with the public ( yes , there are exceptions where they need to see someone but these are not the normal case ) . In keeping with the above , most of the world is set up to use the <URL> as a intermediary , the applicant drops off their stuff and then returns to collect it when they get a notification email . The VFS has no decision-making role and largely acts as a secured courier , so it really makes no sense to have a queue of people hanging around the VFS waiting for a visa to be affixed . In places like Nigeria , the passport and evidence may be sent to their special assessment unit that performs ' deep analysis ' . This can take several weeks and it would not make sense to separate the passport from the other evidence during this phase . In the Schengen cases where the applicant must report to the consulate for an interview , it would mean making two trips to the consulate : one for the interview and one to collect their stuff , this is thought to be an unreasonable burden on the applicant . Especially in the British case , there is an overarching cultural influence best called : ( TITWTW , ' titwah ' ) . This usually operates as a stand-alone rationale for a lot of things in the UK and visas are no exception . If you encounter TITWTW , the discussion has reached its conclusion . Other answers in the archives here have pointed out that the application location is not necessarily the decision location . Applications submitted in Morocco for example are decided in Croydon ( London suburbs ) . Applications submitted in Kabul are decided in New Delhi ( graphic from UKVI presentation ) . So where would the applicant queue ? <URL> And as a final note , yes , it 's possible for an applicant to have an ECO come around to their house or office , or for an applicant to show up at the consulate on a while-you-wait basis . They are very flexible and will accommodate almost anything you want ( I attended the <URL> on this topic and can attest to the flexibility ) . I have n't checked recently but the last time I looked , those services started at about GBP 15k and upwards from there . A person can also arrange for a private landing interview at Heathrow ( etc ) and they will even send someone to small airports like Robin Hood . Note : most of the above are stated as UK specific , Schengen members have comparable or similar conditions . Note : dual nationals ( or holders of duplicate passports ) always come up with the corner case : can I apply for entry clearance with one passport and simultaneously enter the UK on my other passport ? This is theoretically possible because the IO may not always know that the person has applied for entry clearance using a second passport . But returning to Paragraph 28 , if they ever find out that the person was in th
While what constitutes a " best " spot is subjective , here are some popular options : <URL> This road is located in Tokyo , between the Gaienmae and Aoyama-Itchome stations . The best time to visit is from mid-november to early december . <URL> <URL> While this doesnt feature only Ginkgo trees , you can enjoy the view in this traditional japanese garden . <URL> <URL> The temple grounds feature many Ginkgo trees , plus you get so visit one of the biggest temples around . <URL> The lesson here is that there are n't many dedicated spots for Ginkgo trees , but they are more or less omnipresent in Japan . Visit during the end of november and you are sure to get your fill of beautiful colors . <URL> <URL>
Because they can . Not all tourists spend money in the cities and most cities do not get direct benefits from tourist money while they do spend money on public transport , roads and other things tourists use . In most places I have been tourist tax was a very small amount , about 1 % or less of the cost of being a tourist in the town .
It 's because China manages its air traffic by routing flights along relatively narrow air corridors . For a discussion , see <URL> .
If you ignore the semantics of " Visa " v 's " pre-approved Visa-like thing " , then Australia is generally no different ( or frequently better ) than many other major countries . For example , comparing Australia , the US , and Canada ( based on their new regulations starting March 15 , 2016 ) . Citizens allowed without any form of pre-approval : Australia - 1 country ( New Zealand ) Canada - 1 country ( US ) US - 2 countries ( Canada + Bermuda ) Citizens allowed after electronic pre-authorization : Australia - 45 countries ( eVisitor + ETA ) Canada - ~ 50 countries ( eTA ) US - 38 countries ( ESTA/VWP ) Citizens allowed apply for visa electronically : Australia - all but 4 countries Canada - All countries ( ? ) US - 0
This <URL> in a <URL> thread on flyertalk shows a boarding pass which indicates a personal item is allowed : <URL> and others posted in positive too . Unless something changed in the last year ( and there 's no trace of that ) you are good to go .
This is prohibited for safety reasons . Each row has one extra oxygen mask ( there are exceptions , some rows have no extra masks and they will be marked somehow ) . If more than one infant is seated in a parent 's lap and the oxygen masks were to be used one of the row occupants will have no oxygen mask to use . Usually the reservation system/agents will avoid such a situation but it could happen that a family with two infants will be given boarding passes in one row , the cabin crew then will move one of the parents along with one of the infants to the other side of the row or to another row . Update : in some larger jets the set of seats in the middle ( 4 or 5 seats ) may have two extra oxygen masks , in that case two infants can accompany their parents in their laps .
Yes . I have seen small bags that could have been carried going around on the baggage belt . I have personally checked a bag larger than a purse , but small enough that it could be carried on , on several occasions with several different airlines . Some important considerations : can you close it completely and securely ? If you mean " handbag " like the North American word " purse " , not all such bags zip shut , they may just have a clasp . You need to make sure nothing will fall out no matter how the bag is turned , dropped , thrown etc. . Does it have prominent handles ( as some purses and backpacks do ) that might catch on handling equipment ? If so you should work out how to constrain them - bungee cords , wrapping in plastic , or the like lithium batteries , including spare laptop batteries or external batteries for phones , are not allowed in checked luggage . If you have such things you will need to move them to whatever you are carrying on . You may be charged a fee for each bag you check Other than that I do n't expect a problem . I have yet to meet an airline that had a minimum size limit for checked bags .
There are many possibilities here , and there 's no definitive answer , travel pricing is complex enough just looking at flights when you start talking bundles it gets worse . First off , this is n't impossible but it 's also not always the case , depends on where you 're going , for how long and what time of year ( also what particular days , weekend/weekday ) . So I 'd just accept it , be pleased and move on . You 'd have to check the conditions on your confirmation to see if you need to stay at the hotel , but the most you 'd likely have to do is check-in / check-out nobody will check you 're actually staying in the room . So why the low price ? First you 're booking something on short-notice , generally that means higher prices . Perhaps Expedia have a deal with the airlines where they pre-buy X seats on a given route at a much lower price a long time ago . Expedia knows from experience that they can sell enough to cover the costs , the airline knows that they have some guaranteed money which is good on flights that might not otherwise sell out . The same goes for hotels . I 'm assuming the flight you 're getting is the same as one of the ones you priced separately -- i.e. Expedia has n't given you a charter flight or linked two different ends together . It may just be that Expedia gets a discount from some airline that 's not available to people booking directly . As I said , there are lots of possible reasons , if you let us know where you were going ( and where from ) it might be possible to come up with something more specific .
I would suggest getting a doctor 's note to help but TSA has a <URL> for people with disabilities or medical conditions : Disabilities and Medical Conditions To ensure your security , all travelers are required to undergo screening at the checkpoint . You or your traveling companion may consult the TSA officer about the best way to relieve any concerns during the screening process . You may provide the officer with the TSA notification card or other medical documentation to describe your condition . If you have other questions or concerns about traveling with a disability please contact passenger support . If you are approved to use TSA Pre ✓ ® lane at a participating airport , you do not need to remove shoes , laptops , 3-1-1 liquids , belts , or light jackets during the screening process and TSA officers may swab your hands , mobility aids , equipment and other external medical devices to test for explosives using explosives trace detection technology . You are not required to remove your shoes if you have disabilities and medical conditions . However , your shoes must undergo additional screening including visual/physical inspection as well as explosives trace detection testing of the footwear . You can request to be seated during this portion of the screening . Please choose a situation to see more information . Prosthetics , Casts , Braces , Support Appliances Inform the TSA Officer Inform the TSA officer if you have a prosthetic , cast , brace or support appliance and require assistance with the screening process . You may provide the officer with the TSA notification card or other medical documentation to describe your condition . Screening Passengers with prostheses can be screened using imaging technology , metal detector , or a pat-down . A prosthetic , cast , brace or support appliance may be subject to additional screening . You may be asked to lift or raise your clothing to screen the prosthetic . Sensitive areas should not be exposed during the screening process . You may voluntarily remove your prosthetic , cast , brace or support appliance and have it screened by the X-ray . So you may have to remove it just request that you 're seated and your leg in a comfortable position before you do this .
end question
start question
Last minute flight bookings - better to book online or at the airport ?
I might contribute some inside knowledge since I am working for a company which contributed the software for a major cheap-flight company . Generally the prices are determined by offer and the demand BUT there is another major variable ( in fact several ) in the game for short-booking . Statistics show that most ( 80 % ) last-minute bookers are in an important need for the short booking and therefore willing to pay more . So the function which generates the price for short-bookings is not a complete function of offer and demand any more like it was years ago . If you want to know what 's the deal do the following : Go to your online bookers homepage . Search for a flight which is taking off today and try to book that ticket . With this you firstly know how short you can book online and secondly if the prices are acceptable for you . Your question is also highly location dependant . In the country I live ( Switzerland ) I get the cheapest flights through a friend who works at the airport and calls me when a certain flight is available . I can only recommend trying both the online and physical approach .
Your reasoning is correct . Kayseri + rental car is the most convenient option . You have much more choice to and from Kayseri : better schedules and better prices , through competition . Moreover , the car rental facilities tend to be better at Kayseri . And it is not that further . Anyway , the drive is a quite relaxed one . Renting a car is definitely a good idea to explore that region . You will be more flexible . Getting from Göreme to more remote places like Mustafapaşa , Ihlara Valley or Kaymaklı is much easier and quicker with a car than with public transport . And you will be at ease to visit Kayseri . Indeed , if you have the time , stop by for a couple of hours . It 's worth it . An alternative would be to use an airport transfer , pulbic transport when possible and eventually take part in organised trips to the more remote areas or rent a car for that purpose on a daily basis . The organisational effort is however much bigger . You also lose some flexibility and spontaneity . A last word on the airports . Check carefully if your flight to Kayseri is operated from Istanbul Atatürk Airport ( code IST ) . There is another airport called Sabiha Gökçen ( code SAW ) . The latter is 50 kilometers from what one would call the city center . And transportation to and from this airport is by far not as straightforward as from Atatürk airport .
The most usual case when the rental companies will upgrade your car to the next better class is when there are no cars of your class available , so if you rent from an off airport office you 're more likely to get a better car then when you rent from a larger office like the ones at major airports .
One hour is not impossible , but it 's cutting it mighty close -- I probably would not take the risk . Bahamasair 's <URL> is checking in two hours before departure , with a cut-off at 30 min , although I 'm not sure how strictly this is enforced ( it 's a pint-sized airport after all ) . They are notoriously flaky though , and the veiled threat about getting bumped off even a confirmed flight if you do n't show up at least an hour beforehand should be taken seriously . Nevertheless , if you figure on 10 min to get to immigration , 0 to 30 min waiting in line ( use the Interisland Transit line on the right , it 'll be slightly faster ) , then 10 min to walk over to the domestic terminal , the odds are two in three that you 'll miss the 30 min cutoff . And that 's assuming you have no checked bags and that your flight lands precisely on time .
Last time I flew Spirit , I was able to print my boarding pass at a kiosk without paying an additional fee . I believe the $ 10 fee only applies if you get a counter agent to print it for you .
You 're a little off , but if you Google for ETOPS you 'll find the details on what you 're referring to . In short , twin-engine planes ( eg , 737 , 767 , 777 , A320 , A330 , etc ) were originally required to remain at all times within 60 minutes of a suitable airport where they could land . This was done so that in the event of an engine failure they could land as soon as possible so as to significantly reduce the chances of the second engine failing . Quad-engine planes ( 747 , A340 ) did not have any similar restrictions due to their ability to lose at least 2 engines and still remain flying . As engine reliability improved , and as the twin-engine planes started to prove their reliability , the FAA ( and other similar organizations around the world ) brought in a classification called " Extended Twin Operations " , or ETOPS , which allowed for certain approved aircraft , being flown by approved airlines , to fly further distances from an airport . There are a number of different ETOPS ratings , such as ETOPS-120 ( 120 minutes from an airport ) , ETOPS-180 , ETOPS-207 ( 180 +15 % ) , and now even ETOPS-330 which allows certain Boeing 777 's to be up to 5 1/2 hours from their nearest airport ! Airlines without ETOPS ratings will sometimes need to take alternate routes in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport . eg , when Virgin Australia ( Virgin Blue at the time ) started flying Sydney-Perth they had to take a much more northern route in order to stay within 60 minutes of an airport , where rival Qantas could take a more southerly/shorter route as their planes were ETOPS rated . ( For a good story on what can happen when both engines on a twin-jet fail , Google for details of the " gimli glider " )
The problem is that flight paths change quite often depending on prevailing winds , air traffic and weather patterns . So there 's not always one exact flight path that you can rely on . However , if you want to see where a plane is at any given time and what path it took , I use <URL> , which is remarkably close visually to the air traffic radar screens we used to use when I did ATC software development .
When I was last at T3 in Dubai , the terminal did have free wi-fi but it was excruciatingly slow . Boingo hotspots are present in all terminals in Dubai International Airport . <URL> . <URL> : <URL> : For a more long term option , and if you are a frequent traveller , consider purchasing a data stick from your home country that you could use in Dubai . If you travel to Dubai often , consider purchasing a data stick from one of the two ISP 's : <URL> and <URL> .
Sleeping in airports is not uncommon when transiting through . Quite a few people stretch out and nap while waiting their next flight . But this is primarily in the transit areas , security often frowns on folks sleeping in the public area around the check in counters ( otherwise homeless folks would flock to the heated airport lobbies armed with a second hand suitcase ) . Both the Mecure Schipol and Yotel are inside the international transit area , so you ca n't access them until you check in for your flight . The Yotel was closed last September during renovation , not sure if it has reopened yet . The best bet is to book one of the other three on that website , since they are all within walking distance . Or look on a booking website like Agoda and pick a hotel that offers free airport shuttles .
It varies for different airlines , so it 's best to telephone your individual airline or check their website . It seems to be standard for international flights but not so for domestic flights . These depend on the model of plane and some airlines also have a weight limit for allowing a child to use the bassinets . Check with your airline to determine if your child is below the weight limit specified for use of your airline 's bassinets . On long haul flights most airlines will provide Bassinets providing for by infants under the age of 2 years with the condition that the infant does not way more than 10kg and under 6 months of age Article Source : <URL> These are fitted in front of the parents seat , so it 's best you get the first row of seats in each block of the airline as these have more legroom . How do you book it ? Once you 've checked the website , call them to request for one . Ideally ee-confirm 48 hours before your flight that your bassinet is available . Sometimes you might have to wait till check-in to get it confirmed on certain airlines . Is it tied to your seat assignment ? Yes - I assume you will get a seat with enough legroom to install the bassinet . And if the seat with the bassinet is taken by someone without an infant , will they change your seat assignment ? They should do so - provided you inform them in advance Additional Info From a few websites , you can see the policy for some airlines . <URL> offers bassinets for ticketed infants weighing 22 lbs ( 10 kg ) or less on international flights operated with 777 , 767 and 757-200 aircraft . Bassinets attach to the wall in front of the specific seats . Qantas - If you require a bassinet onboard , you must notify Qantas at the time of reservation . Bassinets may be requested for infants up to 18 months of age , but the recommended age limit for bassinet use on international flights is eight months United - A limited number of bassinets can be reserved for use , free of charge , on international aircraft ( Boeing 747 , 767 and 777 ) . These bassinets are large enough to hold a child up to approximately six months old . Air NZ only allows pre-booking for infants of 8 months and less , otherwise you must wait until check-in to see if a bassinet is available
Since there is only eight hours of daylight in London in January I would suggest you take the afternoon class . If you take the morning class then most of the daylight hours will taken up studying inside . It is probably safer and more enjoyable to wander around an unfamiliar city during daylight . For typical sunrise / sunset hourse see : <URL>
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
There is n't really a definitive answer to this question . It all depends on how many people book for said day , what time of day , and then who books in advance . Personally , I would buy tickets in advance , so that if there was a big queue on the day for the non-advance tickets , I would be fine . Based on the fact that people have only got to scan QR codes in the advance tickets queue , I would say that you 'd be looking at about five seconds per person . With the other queue , it 's probably going to take about 30 seconds or more per group as they decide on tickets and then pay for them . In busy times , you would be much better off going through online booking beforehand . You have said that you would go on a Saturday in non-holiday season , so both queues would be relatively short . Other users have commented queues were empty , and one in chat said it was similar in holiday times . I would advise you to book online in case , but you are probably fine either way .
I used to ' get around this ' technicality by asking at the info desks at airports where there might be a power point to charge my laptop etc , even if I 'd spotted some . They 'd usually helpfully point out one , or say ' oh just use any you find ' . That way I figured I 'd be able to argue being covered if it came down to security yelling at me or worse . I 've also since seen some airports tape over power points , presumably because they do n't want it to be used . Others openly point to them , and indicate free Wi-Fi all around and so on . One view is that you can walk in - anyone 's welcome despite it being private property . They 're certainly happy for you to use their power and water in the washroom , on the assumption you 're a passenger as well . One could argue reasonable assumption in court if it came down to it , but it 'd be interesting to see how that went . <URL> notes that many airports have made quite the effort in deactivating outlets . <URL> to have power outlets for passengers to use . I think the difference between the Leaf incident and what you 're asking is that the guy was not somewhere he could reasonably be expected to be , with no reasonable expectation of use of their facilities . Much like if you use the electricity at your friend 's house , they 're unlikely ( I 'd hope ) to be able to sue you , the airport already offers you its facilities , and indeed wants to you spend time eating , dining and so on there . Of course , until this actually goes to court , we are not lawyers , and likely can not do much more than speculate on what would result , unfortunately .
Yes , there 's a ' rest area ' of sorts if you can get airside , according to <URL> , and the airport is open 24 hours . Nothing great though , unless you pay - there are hotels available . Rest Zone - The Kainuu Lounge is a space that is open to all passengers who are looking to a quiet place to rest and relax between flights . They do n't offer much in terms of seating , but apparently laying on the carpeted floor is comfortable . Location : Airside , Gate 31 . Hours : open 24 hours . There are some lounges , hotels , and 24 hour cafes , which if it were me , would be where I 'd head - they often have comfy seats and do n't care about overnight nappers , based on many experiences in other airports .
The solution to the language barrier problem may be much simpler than relying on the immigration to provide the interpreter for the native language of your family member . Given that he/she is coming from your native country it is much simpler to do one of the following : Find a person on the plane who speaks one of the major languages as well as the native language of your family member . My mother-in-law does it all the time . When she arrives she asks to come through immigration with that person to help her understand what 's being asked and she had no problems on her numerous visits . Ask the air crew for the same help . Yes it may require them to stick around longer then they would normally would but they normally speak at least one language in addition to the native and on most international flights ( if not all ) you will be able to find a person in the crew that speaks the native language of the destination country in this case France . He/She can try to arrange it prior to departure this service definitely is available for kids traveling alone but you can try it for your relative .
There is ! But there are n't any signs to tell you ... As explained on the <URL> , the SkyBus ticket office at the airport sells the <URL> . That costs $ 14 , and comes with $ 8 credit ( plus a few other bits ) . There are no signs at the SkyBus ticket office about myki , it is n't listed on any of the prices shown , but if you queue up and ask they 'll get one out of a secret drawer and sell one to you ! Once you 've bought your myki , it 's a moderately well signposted 1 minute walk to where the 901 bus goes from - follow the signs for Public Buses . Alternately , there are in theory some regular myki topup and purchase machines in <URL> , but they 're not well signed and rather hidden . You 're looking for a silver/grey machine with a blue sign on the top . I could n't find the T2 one , the T3 one is on the far left as you go to leave the baggage claim area by the toilets . For topping up a myki it may be worth hunting , though do n't forget you can also top up on the bus ! For visitors , heading to the SkyBus ticket office to buy one is likely to be much quicker and easier
It is a bit of a drive ( probably around 30-45 minutes , as you said ) , and as far as I know there is no public transport so you have to get a taxi ( about $ 30 one way ) . However , you have 8 hours , so you are still left with 5 hours in Panama City . If I were you , I would definitely go for it . For example , you would manage to see all of the <URL> and have a nice lunch there .
Your question reminds me of a quote from a quantum mechanics teacher I once had : Only after teaching a subject twice , one may begin to understand it . Apart from hosting the occasional Couchsurfer , I have no experience myself in being a tourist guide . But I guess : to become a better tourist guide , be a tourist guide . I think in many places , tourist guides are often student jobs , relying not ( only ) on professionals but also a lot of amateurs . Therefore , if you 're genuinely interested in becoming a better tourist guide , you could apply to be one in your own city or region , maybe during the summer months ( or weeks ) . I 'd expect that this means following a few classes and then heading out in the city centre . You 'll tell the same story on every trip but might get different questions on every trip , that you would need to figure out . That 's probably a highly effective way to learn the touristic information for your city or region .
Also it is more likely to get a jet bridge when traveling with the local airline . Say you are leaving Stockholm for some obscure Balkan city . You will always get a jet bridge at arlanda so do n't travel with SAS in that case . Use the Balkan airline that is more likey to get to use one of the two jet bridges at it 's hypothetical home airport .
end question
start question
Travelling from Portugal to Finland - is it recommended to get a passport ?
Because you are an EU national you have the right of free movement inside EU . The national ID card is enough , the portuguese one is called Cartão de Cidadão .
I went ahead and asked the NYS DMV directly . In short , an interim license is not valid to legally drive in NY . My question was : I just received my interim driver 's license from the state of California . I will be flying to New York before the regular license arrives in the mail . Can I legally drive in New York State with this interim driver 's license ? It contains my name , physical descriptors , and license number , but no photograph . I do have a valid photo ID however . Their response : Dear Claudiu , You will not be able to legally drive in NY with an interim license . You will need a valid drivers license with a picture ID . Thank you . Sincerely , [ name redacted ] License Production Bureau If another state in the same country does n't recognize the license , I would be very surprised if another country does !
I think you have to look a little closer at your page that claims widespread acceptance . each entry is a single claim ( supported only by a photo of an entry stamp page ) of one person who has managed to get into that country using a World Passport . Many of the claims are obvious fakes and the photos are not of entry stamps . So for most countries , only a handful of people in the history of the passport have been successful with it . Most of those could simply be due to an immigration official not paying attention . If you look at <URL> you will find a much more realistic assessment . Many countries and territories have stated that they do not recognize the World Passport because it is not issued by a competent government authority , and thus does not meet the definition of a passport . As a result , travelling on a World Passport has never been easy . By 1975 , Garry Davis [ founder of World Service Authority ] had already been imprisoned 20 times for his attempts to cross international borders with nothing but a World Passport . The United States Department of State 's official position on the World Passport is that it is just a booklet issued by a private organisation upon payment of a fee , and not a passport.As early as 1991 , the US Air Transport Association specifically included the World Passport in a training film as an example of unacceptable travel papers . In the United Kingdom , the Criminal Records Bureau of the United Kingdom 's Home Office states that registered bodies should not accept the World Passport as a proof of identity , warning that " a fake ' World Passport ' can be purchased online by members of the public and should not be confused with a genuine passport " . EDIT : If you follow the links where the WSA claims that the passports are officially accepted , many of them are letters in which the country says it accepts documents issued by the WSA as an identify document . An identity document is not a travel document , and wo n't necessarily get you into a country .
This heavily depends on the type of train you are planning to use . In general there are 5 different type of trains you can use with your Interrail/Eurail pass regional trains which are included in a pass and no reservations are possible trains with reservations available but not compulsory . If you do n't buy such a reservation before boarding the train you might not get a seat at all . you are not allowed to board trains with compulsory reservation without one . There is mostly only a limited contingent of reservations available for rail pass holders ( typically high speed and night trains ) sometimes you are only granted a discount on standard ticket fares . ( E.g. Eurostar and Thalys ) some trains in Europe such as hotel trains for example do n't offer any discount for rail pass holders There are the following train categories operating in finland : Yöjunat ( night train ) and Pendolino ( highspeed train ) require reservations . You ca n't take those trains if they are already sold out . For intercities ( IC ) reservations are only recommended . The odds are high that you might not get a seat on this train if it is already booked up . Pikajunat ( P ) and Taajamajuna ( H ) are interregional and regional trains and do not require reservations . Just board those trains ! You can actually find details on reservations organized by country on <URL>
I think you have the basics right . In your case , both passports could let you enter Germany but the US also has a rule that US citizens must use their US passport to enter the country ( I think European countries , including Germany , are much less concerned about that ) . Since the US uses airline data to replace exit immigration and checks passenger manifests ( <URL> ) of incoming aircraft , I would guess that using your US passport to book the ticket might be required to avoid problems . You can always show both passports to the airline staff ( although they might not even ask for it as US citizens do n't need visas to enter Germany ) and use your German passport for the German passport check ( although I am not even sure that using the local passport is required there ) , even if the ticket was booked on the US passport . Finally , under EU law , relatives ( spouse and dependents under the age of 21 ) who are not EU citizens should only undergo a ' minimum check ' ( i.e. checking the validity of their documents and establishing their identity but not asking questions about purpose , financial means , etc. see article 7 of the Schengen Borders Code ) and can use the EU/EEC citizens lane ( article 9 ) if they are travelling with you . But since you are travelling to your country of citizenship ( and not to another EU country ) , you are not formally exercising your rights to free movement within the EU and the rules could theoretically be different .
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
China has lifted most of the restrictions on trade in Chinese currency , so it has been possible to ( legally ) obtain renminbi outside China for a few years . When entering and leaving China , you are allowed to bring 20,000 CNY in local currency ( appr . 3,200 USD ) and 5,000 USD or equivalent in foreign currency ( source : <URL> ) . Assuming that you are in the United States , I ca n't tell if you are actually able to obtain Chinese currency there . Here in Germany , most currency exchange offices sell renminbi , but I would expect the exchange rates to be better in China . If you really have to exchange cash , check a site like xe.com for the " real " exchange rate and find a Chinese office , where the offered exchange rate is not much worse . My experience is that the best deal is usually to withdraw cash from a local ATM if you need paper money .
As a general rule : If you can get there by bus , you can get there by car . There are of course cases where there are restrictions regarding private cars , but that 's not the case for the places you 're asking about . Steinsdalsfossen og Vøringsfossen are both on FV-7 . Have a look at <URL> in Google Maps to see how to get there . Folgefonna is large , and there are many different places you can visit . If you want to start at the <URL> , it will take you <URL> .
From US Department of State ( <URL> ) : " In Singapore , you may be taken in for questioning if you do n't have your passport with you . " There is also a section titles " Surrendering your Passport " that addresses surrendering your passport to police officers , hotels , or employers as a guarantee . It is common for domestic helpers to surrender their passports in Singapore . If you are required to have you passport on you at all times it is usually explicitly stated . The US DoS page for Malaysia states , " You should carry your U.S. passport and current social visit pass ( visa ) with you at all times ... " The US DoS page for Thailand states : " We strongly recommend that U.S. citizens carry proper travel documentation at all times . Thai police occasionally stop travelers in popular tourist areas to check their passports . Please carry at a minimum a copy of your U.S. passport identification page and current Thai visa to avoid detention by the Thai immigration police . "
Are there any current major Finnish cities where the architecture is medieval , or at least " pre modern " ( before the late 1600s ) ? In short , no . Compared to most countries in central and southern Europe , Finland has very few remaining medieval buildings ( or indeed buildings older than 100-200 years , sadly ) . Most buildings back then were wooden ( and primitive ) and have burnt down at some point or another . There are some medieval castles , however . These three are the most notable and best preserved : <URL> , oldest parts of which date from 1200s . Photo : <URL> , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1300s , in Hämeenlinna , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1400s , in Savonlinna , in the historical province of Savonia , Eastern Finland . <URL> ( Åbo in Swedish , which used to be the dominant language during most of its history ) is by far the oldest city in Finland , and besides the castle , there 's <URL> , originally from 13th century ( but largely rebuilt in 1800s ) . But if you go to Turku expecting to see a city centre with lots of historical buildings , you 'd be disappointed . Much of the centre consists of rather ugly buildings from 1960s and 70s ; e.g. . <URL> shows what I mean . To see lots of beautiful old buildings in Finland , even whole neighbourhoods of them , I 'd definitely recommend Helsinki . ( Besides the area around Senate Square , check out Kruununhaka , Katajanokka , Eira , Ullanlinna , Töölö , and Kallio districts . Oh , and the <URL> sea fortress which is awesome in summer . ) But by " old " , I mean mostly 1800s and early 1900s , nothing even close to medieval . Edit : Besides the castles , there are nearly 100 remaining medieval stone churches in Finland . <URL> ( in Finnish , but at least photos and dates are universally understandable ) . Of course , there 's typically just one of these in a town or village . Wikipedia also has a pretty comprehensive <URL> , ranging from 1748 to 1889 , with photos and addresses/coordinates . Edit 2 : <URL> , <URL> , should be mentioned too . It 's a UNESCO world heritage site that a guidebook I have ( The Rough Guide to Finland ) describes thusly : Despite the large number of tourists it attracts , the medieval core of Old Rauma ( Vanha Rauma ) , held within a narrow triangle of land bordered on two sides by the trickling Raumanjoki river , holds enough quiet lanes , paths and alleyways -- a total of six hundred individual buildings across a thirty-hectare area -- to allow you to explore almost undisturbed . ( Oldest buildings date from 18th century , as fires in 1640 and 1682 destroyed the town , so I guess it 's not strictly medieval . Or perhaps the architecture is ? )
The main difference between liquid soap and dish washer detergent is price . So not a good idea in general , but only because liquid soap is more expensive . One recipe for liquid soap is given <URL> -- note olive oil , coconut oil , essential oils . Some of the ingredients for a well-known brand of washing liquid are listed <URL> -- note Sodium laureth sulphate , Alcohol denat , sodium chloride . For the first of these three <URL> has " SLES is an inexpensive and very effective foaming agent . " For the second , consumers are used to alcohol ( ethanol ) being expensive , but that is only because of the tax . Denatured ( methylated spirits ) it is very much less expensive . <URL> is offered for AUD 3.30 . The third is common salt . Consider instead the first of the natural liquid soap ingredients . <URL> is offering one litre of olive oil for AUD 5.99 . Coconut oil is much more expensive still - AUD 20 per litre at <URL> . However , while Cocamidopropyl betaine features in detergents it is derived from coconut oil . According to <URL> " soap is natural and detergent is n't " . That was the case around the time detergents were being developed ( say 1930-50 ) but now most ' soaps ' are synthetic products . Another significant difference is the ecological effects -- see <URL> . Soap made from natural products is far friendlier to the environment . However , in terms of cleaning power they both work the same way . They are surface active molecules that cling to dirt at one end and to water at the other , and then get flushed away ( with the dirt ) on rinsing . Though there are some differences in how the two respond in ' hard ' water ( that is , where the mineral content is high ) . In terms of bactericides , some dish washing liquids are advertised for their disinfectant properties but , as with much else in the world of soaps and detergents , there is a LOT of hype . " Soaps " ( some TV programmes ) are not called what they are because the industry giants could not afford millions to promote products earning them billions . Dirty dishes are ones we have just eaten off -- they are not an environment that supports germs the way the human body does . Do we wash our hands in washing up liquid after a trip to the lavatory ? No we use ' soap ' ( at least , I hope you do ) because that kills germs . So , any form of detergent is good enough for dishes and liquid soap more expensive - but much more environmentally responsible . From a travel aspect however washing up liquid is generally more concentrated than ' liquid soap ' so might be more practical if to be carried around . The greater concentration is also a positive for washing up liquids to offset some of their environmental negatives .
Night train through Germany are operated by <URL> . It may help to look at the map in <URL> <URL> . Another useful way to visualize your options is <URL> . For train schedules across Europe ( except the Balkans and the Russias ) , everything is conveniently available on the <URL> . If you do the whole trip by rail , there are several hurdles : From London to the continent , there 's only one option : a day train to Brussels . To cross Germany by night , you have to start in the west ( not much further than Cologne ) , and go at least as far as Hamburg ( for a very early morning arrival ) , with a train arriving in Copenhagen late in the morning . From Germany to Östersund by rail , you need to change at Copenhagen and Stockholm . You need to choose between a night trip from Copenhagen to Stockholm , one from Stockholm to Östersund , and spending the day in trains from Copenhagen to Östersund . So here are a few possibilities : There is one way to finish the trip with a long straight train journey ( on most days ; check the schedules , especially if you 're traveling near a week-end or holiday ) : take the night train 40447 to Copenhagen arriving at 10:02 , change for <URL> to Malmö then <URL> to Stockholm and <URL> to Östersund ( arriving at 22:20 ) . You need to depart from Amsterdam at 19:01 or Cologne at 22:28 ( or other points along the route ) . The problem with this approach is that since you 'll be spending so much time traveling by day that there 's no stretch of the journey left with a night train . If you 're willing to take a ferry , you can cross the North Sea from <URL> by night . You 'll be in Holland at 7:45 , giving you the best part of the day to catch the 40447 in Amsterdam or Utrecht ( 1 1/2 hours away ) . If you hurry along the western part of your journey and to the 40447 , you can be in Stockholm at 15:50 , then leave at <URL> for the night train to Östersund . That 's not much time to spend in Stockholm , and best reserved for the summer so you at least can spend some of it in daylight . If you take the <URL> , you can leave Hamburg as late as <URL> . That does n't leave much time to come from Berlin , unless you want to sample Berlin 's night life ( which is pretty lively ) . You could leave London in the afternoon , take the <URL> from Cologne to Hamburg ( 4am arrival ) , and spend a bit of time in Hamburg . You could take the night ferry to Hoek van Holland , travel to Berlin by day and spend the night there . A longer and more expensive journey goes via Paris : take a morning Eurostar , spend the day in Paris , take the overnight train to Hamburg , continue via the route of your choice . You can take a ferry from <URL> to Sweden . You can even take an <URL> on this route , the <URL> : board in Berlin at 22:31 , alight in Malmö at 08:01 ( with a connection to Stockholm arriving at 12:45 , in time to be in Östersund in the evening ) . This lets you bypass Copenhagen . If you do n't sleep through it , you 'll have the nowadays rare experience of a train loaded onto a ferry .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
Be aware that for the most part , you ca n't go from the US to Cuba , unless specifically authorized by the government . Most people go to Canada or Mexico and fly from there . From Wikitravel : Jose Martí International Airport outside Havana is the main gateway and is served by major airlines from points in Canada , Mexico , and Europe . There are also regional flights from other Caribbean islands . Cuba 's national carrier is Cubana de Aviacion , connecting the island to a handful of destinations in Mexico , South and Central America , Canada and Europe . Flights from Miami to Cuba are offered to authorized American passengers . Try calling Cuba Travel Services ( CTS Charters ) . They offer daily non-stop flights between Los Angeles and Miami to Cuba . There are also regular holiday charter flights to resorts such as Varadero , and these can sometimes be less expensive than those going to Havana . Please note that if you have purchased a oneworld ticket then further flights into America within that year will be disallowed through American Airlines . As for what is the cheapest , that 's hard to answer as airlines change their prices and ca n't be answered objectively and accurately as they 're subject to change . In addition , it 's not possible to search for flights on large booking engines ( such as Kayak ) due to United States travel restrictions . As a result , you need to be creative : use European booking engines or go directly to the airlines ' websites . On a large European booking engine ( <URL> ) you can find flights from Cancun to Havana on combinations of Cubana and/or AeroMexico flights , . The flight time varies from 1 hour 15 min to 13 hours , depending on connections .
If you ever do have a situation where a visa stamp in your passport will preclude you from visiting another country , your passport agency will likely be fine with granting you a second passport . This happens not infrequently with US journalists -- the US government issues them a second passport for what some call the " terrorism tour " countries . ( The second passport is not free and is only issued after an interview with an FSO , Foreign Service Officer . ) The idea that you can only get one passport at a time from a particular country is NOT true . Your mileage may vary if your passport is issued by a country other than the US .
I ca n't help with the logistics of actually getting the vehicle between Thailand and Australia , however despite what is and is n't possible there , there 's no cheap way to do what you 're asking . Australia has a relatively strict process for approving imported vehicles , which would normally only be worthwhile if the car was in some way special . If the vehicle is left-hand drive ( ie , the steering wheel is on the left ) then there are even stricter rules regarding importing . You can most of the details in the <URL> . If you are only planning to import the vehicle temporarily you can get by with having a <URL> ( CPD ) , but even this will not be cheap -- especially as you 'll have to pay for transportation in both directions . There have been a few other questions here regarding CPD that you 'll be able to find by searching . Unless there are ( very ! ) special circumstances , selling your car in Thailand and buying a new one in Australia will work out much cheaper than trying to transport it .
Aside Greyhound ( costing 30-60 ) , <URL> shows various other bus options including <URL> costing 20 . There is also a bus combination using <URL> which supposedly costs 19-24 . <URL> can get you there for as low as 11 one way depending on what day of the week you 're traveling and how far in the future you book your ticket . The bus trip takes 4 to 4.5 hours
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
end question
start question
Does Amazon Japan deliver to hotels ?
From my friend 's experience , It is possible . However you should do arrangement with the hotel prior your arrival in the hotel .
I will speak on this topic based on my own experience of having lived here in Japan for 8 years as well as being familiar with the experiences of many other non-Japanese people : One of the most important things to note here is that Japanese society strongly encourages people not to give voice to judgements they have about people who are not in their in-group ( like family , co-workers , etc ) . A very important aspect of the Japanese is that while they can be very judgmental , they maintain an admirably live-and-let-live outward attitude towards people they do not know well . It is rare in public to see people reprimand or criticize someone for anything . So , to use your example of a Muslim in full hijab , I can not imagine a Japanese person going up to and verbally accosting this person under almost any circumstances . What is very likely is that they would stare at this person , take a picture , ask them if they were too warm inside , ask them for their autograph , or other behaviors that would make this Muslim feel rather alienated , but if they were to say anything regarding that person 's clothing choices it would be " wow " , " that 's amazing " , or " look Dad , it 's a strangely-dressed foreigner ! " - but saying something along the lines of " I do n't like Muslims " would be exceedingly rare . That said , people from China and Korea ( particularly North Koreans ) are the most likely to be treated poorly , due to a sort of deep-seated racism that exists between the East Asian societies that has persisted for centuries - and current political tensions in the region are having a further effect here . <URL> . I can not comment on all nationalities , but black people I know have generally had good experiences in Japan because , like white people , they are considered exotic by the locals . Though , they are frequently asked questions that would be inappropriate in the United States , like " Black English is cool ! Can you teach me how to talk like a black person ? " . It is also not uncommon for Japanese people who 've been out in the sun for a long time in the summer and gotten tan to jokingly say " I look like a black person " . In these ways , the Japanese have little comprehension of racial sensitivity and appropriateness that less homogenous societies have developed . One of the biggest percentage of foreigners living in Japan are from South America ( particularly Brazil ) , and they are the descendants of the many Japanese people who emigrated there about 100 years ago . They mostly work in factories ( particularly in the Tokai region of Japan , near Nagoya ) . From my perspective they are not rejected by their local Japanese communities , but not wholly embraced either . They are frequently unfairly blamed by the police for crimes in the areas they live though . On the topic of the police - it is OK in Japan for the police to stop foreigners and ask for their " papers " to see if their visas are valid . From what I understand , this is more likely to happen to other Asians , Hispanics , and Middle Easterners . My wife and I are both from the United States , however she is of Filipino decent and has been stopped on occasion and asked to show her papers . I am pasty white and have never been stopped . A guy from Iran I know has been stopped a total of 8 times in his few years in Japan , often by people from the same Police Box near his apartment . I have never heard anything to indicate that a bald white person would experience more discrimination than a non-bald one . Lots of white lifers in Japan are missing their hair anyway ! A final thing to note is that all foreigners , regardless of ethnicity , will face institutional discrimination for bureaucratic procedures . First and foremost is renting an apartment : landlords are allowed to ask if the potential tenant is a foreigner and if so they will usually reject them -- there is no legal framework to prevent this . Rental and real estate based discrimination is probably the most rampant form in the entire country . However , if you are just traveling this will probably be no problem . Other similar forms are signing any kind of contract , for foreigners they will often ask for a Japanese guarantor because these institutions are of the opinion that anyone from outside Japan is unreliable in making payments . Another form of guaranteed discrimination is foreign kids ( regardless of ethnicity ) attending public schools , however this is not really limited to Japan as kids love making fun of each other for superficial things the world over .
When ? As a general rule , reservations for a given train open at 10am ( Japanese time ) one month before departure . For example , reservations for a train departing on May 20 open at 10am on April 20 . Reservations close when the train departs . Some things to note : If there is no " matching day " in the previous month , reservations open on the first day of the month of departure . For example , reservations for a train departing on May 31 open on May 1 . During busy travel periods , reservations may open earlier than normal . There is no set rule for when or how this happens ( it is announced in various ways , such as on JR websites and on posters in stations ) . For trains operating after midnight , the departure day is the day on which the train leaves its departure station . However , if you board the train after midnight , you must make a reservation for the day when you board . For example , reservations for the Sunrise Izumo leaving Izumoshi for Tokyo at 18:57 on May 20 open on April 20 . However , if I board this train in Osaka at 00:32 , I must make a reservation for May 21 ( but I can make this reservation on April 20 ) . Just like some trains are all-reserved , some others are all-non-reserved , and thus do not allow reservations ( at least for ordinary class seats ; they may have some reserved Green class ones ) . This is mostly the case for ordinary commuter trains , but also for some express trains such as Nasuno trains on the Tohoku Shinkansen between Tokyo and Koriyama . As mentioned at the bottom of <URL> , Hyperdia can be used to check the available seating options on a particular train . At ticket offices For most trains , this is the only way to make a reservation with a rail pass . The most common way to reserve a seat , especially for foreign travelers , is at ticket offices such as the Midori-no-madoguchi ( みどりの窓口 , lit . " green window " ) which can be found at most JR stations in Japan . ( Only the smallest stations , usually in rural areas , do not have one . ) It is not necessary to make the reservation at the departure station of the train ; there is usually a long wait line at the ticket offices in major stations , so doing it at a smaller one usually results in shorter waiting times . The business hours of the Midori-no-madoguchi at a given station ( if there is one ) can be found on its station information ( 駅情報 ) page on the operating company 's website , which can be found by just typing the station name in Japanese ( with the suffix 駅 ) into a search engine . For example the one at <URL> is open from 7:00 to 21:00 . The necessary information to make a reservation are the departure and arrival stations , and the date and time of departure . Also mention any specific request such as specific seats , and present your rail pass if you have one . For easier communication if you do not speak Japanese , you can just write the information on a piece of paper beforehand , or take a <URL> screenshot on your phone . Payment ( if necessary ) is by cash or credit card . Foreign cards are normally accepted . If paying by card , you will be asked for your signature ( not your PIN ) . At ticket machines <URL> can also be used with screen text in English , but their usage can be confusing if one is not familiar with the Japanese rail system , and they do not work with rail passes . Payment is again by cash or credit card ( if paying by card , you will be asked for your PIN ) . On machines displaying the <URL> , payment can also be made using the balance on a Suica or compatible IC card . Online in English <URL> and <URL> operate online reservation services in English , but they come with many caveats . They can also be used to just check seat availabilities . JR East 's service is the only rail-pass-friendly one , but it only allows reservations for travel within the <URL> ( in yellow/green ) . In addition , tickets must be picked up at a JR East station by 9pm the day before departure , and so it is not possible to reserve seats for trips on the day of arrival in Japan . Although the English website is part of the eki-net system mentioned below , tokudane discount tickets can not be purchased from it . Consult the website for the ( many ) other restrictions , especially regarding the times when reservations can be made . JR Hokkaido 's service allows reservations for travel within Hokkaido , and also for Shinkansen travel with departure and/or arrival in Hokkaido . It does not work with rail passes , and tickets must be picked up at a station in Hokkaido . If one wants to travel between Tokyo and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto with a rail pass , it is not a bad idea to reserve a seat between Tokyo and Shin-Aomori on JR East 's website , as the northernmost section ( between Shin-Aomori and Shin-Hakodate-Hokuto ) is the least busy and can be reserved separately on arrival in Japan . In both cases , payment ( if necessary ) is by credit card only . A simple registration process is also required . Online in Japanese Each JR company operates an online reservation portal in Japanese , where reservations can be
In general , it does not make sense to appeal for something like that . Whether an appeal is likely to succeed depends on the specifics of your situation and it 's not a good idea to discuss all this on this site . You would need help from a Greek legal professional ( which is presumably neither cheap nor easy to get from Abu Dhabi ) to get an informed opinion about this . But even if you have solid grounds for an appeal , it can take a ( very ) long time and it 's impossible to do without knowing the local language and legal system ( that 's always true but the letter you received even states as much in the last paragraph ) . Additionally , the letter also suggests that lodging an appeal by post without formally hiring a lawyer is simply not possible in Greece ( it is in other Schengen countries ) , which makes any appeal more expensive than a fresh application , even if you know Greek and feel confident drafting it yourself . So in practice you are not going to quickly get satisfaction and save your trip that way . You will only receive an answer several months from now , long after your bookings have expired and your holidays are over . At this point , there wo n't even be a valid premise for your application ( it makes no sense to issue a visa for a trip supposed to take place in the past ... ) An appeal only really makes sense if you have strong legal arguments and no hope to succeed in another application ( and of course for long-stay visas but that 's another thing entirely ) . Alternatively , you could still lodge a fresh application . Even taking the fees , documents , etc. into account it would still be much cheaper than an appeal and definitely quicker . But only do that if you think there is something you could add to make your case stronger ( detailed itinerary , bookings , etc. ) without making you look unreliable ( do n't make up a story ) , otherwise you risk getting a new refusal and damaging your credibility for the future .
The best way to leave a tip is in cash and prominently with a note . It 's best to tip once at the end of the stay . It makes it more convenient for you , and for them . Do n't worry about not getting the right person - it all averages out , and tips are frequently pooled anyway . However the rest of this answer applies if you are leaving tips daily . Do n't worry about the language issue . Most domestics know enough English to understand " this tip is for you " , and they are used to this so just leaving a note is enough , even if they ca n't read it . The real reason for the note is so that they can prove to management that they did n't steal the money . Again if you leave the tip at the end it 's obvious they were n't stealing , as you were n't taking any money left behind .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
I have encountered this practice in the past as well . Once I actually talked to them about the reason for it . In that particular hotel , this was encouraged , but not required . They explained that there were two reasons ( for that particular hotel ) : It 's much easier for them to know when the guests are out , so they can go and clean the room . They have had cases when the maid would knock on the door , receive no answer , and open the door with her own key -- just to find the guest still in the room , often in a state rather not expecting anyone to come in ( this did include on a few occasions walking on people having sex ) Minimise the risk of the key being lost/stolen . This reduces the cost in the long run - both in term of the keys/locks needing replacing , but also the liability . In that hotel , the keys were quite distinctive , clearly showing the hotel name and the room number on the key . If a key is lost , whoever finds it can just come in to the hotel , go to the room and steal something - and the guests would hold the hotel liable for the stolen property . The sign at the reception actually stated that the hotel would bear no responsibility for guests ' property left in the room unless the key was handed to the reception upon leaving the hotel .
A few tidbits about Visa Debit cards ( from the USA I am guessing ) . While they work in all USA ATMs , as you discovered they are not always tied to the Plus ATM network so you need to make sure the ATM machine displays the Visa logo . If you have a choice , when outside the USA the card should be treated as a " credit card " not a " debit card " when used for POS ( points of sale ) transactions ( food , stores , gas , etc ) . The USA systems for pin based debit transactions are n't link to many countries outside . Many banks now limit the cash advance amount to the same as your ATM withdrawal limit . They used to allow you to withdraw up to your daily limit for purchases , but now most treat the advance the same as ATM transactions . If the ATM asks what account , what we call a " checking " account , many countries call a " current " account . Always let your bank known you will be traveling and where .
This is n't , so far as I can tell , any kind of travel jargon . It looks the standard definition of <URL> used in any kind of business : Done or existing within an organization That is , if you want to book a room directly through the hotel itself , use the contact information provided . Presumably , you could also book the room through a third party like a consolidator , online travel agency , or corporate portal -- which might or might not be cheaper and/or easier .
The short answer is no , you do n't need it . The long answer is that all Japanese have been vaccinated for it since the 1960s and statistical incidence is down to background noise levels : <URL> figures less than one case per year since the 1990s . So unless you 're planning on spending a lot of time in rural pig farms , it 's not worth worrying about . The CDC is , as ever , more cautious , but even they state that " <URL> " . The Australian Dep ' t of Health goes a bit further , stating that " the risk of travellers in Asia acquiring JE is extremely low " and only <URL> for " travellers spending 1 month or more in rural areas of Asia " ( unless there are significant other risk factors ) . All that said , the vaccine is reasonably effective and provides lifetime protection . So if money and needles are n't a concern and ( probably more importantly ) you plan on traveling in places where the disease is more common , like Vietnam or Indonesia , you might as well go for it .
I would not give to much about the official information on those sites , since it 's mostly marketing and/or eventually a few years old and the owner never updated it on mayor booking sites . Fun fact : there is a marketing language in the travel industry ; for example " central location " for a hotel could mean that it gets a lot of traffic or street noise all day long , and you might have trouble sleeping , while " quiet area " can mean that you wo n't have any public transport or other facilities nearby .
To have an idea of the prices you can go to the <URL> ! And when I read the menu web page , it tells the " chef 's recommended course " is worth 30,000 yen , which is around 300 euros .
No , it 's not " always " an option . Most taxis do take credit cards , and specifically in Tokyo virtually all do ; but some do n't , so you ca n't rely on this . Minimum fares of up to & yen ; 5000 may also apply . One interesting alternative is transport smart cards : most visitors to Japan will have a Pasmo/Suica/etc , which are also increasingly accepted by taxis ( look for a little decal on the window as you get in ) . They 're very fast to use too ( tap ! ) and have no surcharges , minimum fares or other hassle .
An american software engineer living in Japan gives a <URL> and why you should n't be afraid to travel there after the nuclear accident . Essentially , the summary is that Japan is very large . It 's unlikely that your travel plans as a tourist will be anywhere near the accident . Source : <URL>
No this is not a problem . When you leave you will hand in the form that is presently stapled into your passport and you will be stamped out . When you return you will get a new 90 day period ( in my experience ) . It is possible that the immigration inspector will notice that you have been in Japan very recently . She/he may ask you about it . Of course you should be honest . However , since you intend to leave before your original 90 day period is up , you can not be accused of trying to extend your period with a visa run . You may want to have a copy of your itinerary handy to show this . Informally , I do not think Japan is worried about westerners coming to visit and making frequent entries , as long as they do not break the rules . I have always found the immigration staff to be very polite , courteous and friendly .
Possibly one of the clearest comments about it comes from <URL> written about the ice hotels : When checking in to the cold accommodation , you 'll get a key to your own locker where you can store your clothes as you change to your sleeping attire . If you 're staying in a suite , you 'll get access to your own small changing room where you can leave your outdoor clothes . When it 's time to go to bed , you pick up a sleeping bag and sheets from the reception desk in the warm building connected to the ICEHOTEL . You can choose between single or double sleeping bags . For a good night 's sleep , we recommend sleeping in thermal underwear ( such as a long-johns and long-sleeved undershirt ) and a hat . Preferably woollen . Your luggage will be stored in a locked luggage room during your stay . If you bring it to your room , it will freeze during the night . You 'll find warm bathrooms , showers and a sauna in the warm building connected to the ICEHOTEL . If you need to use the bathroom during the night , you 'll have to get out of your sleeping bag and go the warm building . So here 's a tip ; do n't drink too much coffee before going to bed . The bed you 'll sleep on is made of blocks of ice , a wooden base and a mattress covered with reindeer skin . Instead of a door , you pull a curtain in front of it . The snow walls are very sound isolating , so a loudly snoring neighbour will not keep you awake . Around 7.30 am , you will be awoken by one of our guides and served hot lingonberry juice by the bed . In the warm building , you can enjoy a warm morning sauna before going to ICEHOTEL Restaurant for breakfast . So it would seem there are both warm and cold parts , and you will sleep in the cold part , but be adequately padded and protected .
Many pillows in hotels are decorative . You certainly do n't need to keep them all there . Generally you just put them to the side / on a chair / on the floor until you make the bed in the morning . It may also be easier if you tend to sleep in the fetal position , rather than stretched out , but it 's up to you to find the position that suits you best .
Requesting specific criteria for your booked room is indeed a service provided professional travel agents . My employer 's corporate travel agency ( <URL> ) for instance provide a common selection of special requests as shown the in the picture below . Choosing one of these only indicates a preference , not a guarantee , since it 's highly dependent on the yield management system / occupancy at the hotel . ( There may be specific exemptions on whether it 's binding , usually for persons with physical disabilities for instance , who may need an accessible room . ) Providing this kind of choice is considerably less common with many consumer online booking tools . However , in most cases you can phone / contact the hotel following the booking and make the request . Having higher tier status on a hotel chain loyalty programme - if it belongs to one - may also help your chances of having your request fulfilled . That said , I 've mostly found that hotel checkin staff will try to ensure your request is met . Reminding them of it helps .
Picking Dawson City as a representative worst case , you can see from <URL> and <URL> that it can snow a bit as early as late August , but the average snowfall for the entire month of September is less than 2 inches . From experience not too far south of there I can tell you it is generally warm enough during the day in September that any snow is unlikely to remain on the ground very long . A little bit of snow is not very dangerous in any case as long as the vehicle has half-way reasonable tires ( I.e. not big , wide slicks ) . It seems like the probability of a problem is pretty low .
Shinto is at heart an animist religion that imbues many natural features ( rivers , trees , mountains ) with spirits , and Japanese buddhism has been influenced heavily by this , so yes , " sacred mountains " are pretty common in Japan . For Buddhism , sacredness is usually centered around places where famous Buddhist teachers lived , taught or are buried . The two religions are very much mixed , and it is common to have small Shinto shrines within a larger Buddhist temple , and vice versa . One famous sacred mountain ( group of , actually ) is <URL> , reachable from Osaka by a 1.5 hour ( very sceninc ) train ride . It 's actually a small town next to the burial place of the founder of an important Buddhist sect . The town has a large number of temples , many of which have rooms for guests to stay in ( basically like hotels ) , and I very much recommend staying for at least one night . The area around the town has some nice hiking trails , but do n't expect alpine conditions or grand panoramic views ( the mountains are not high enough for that ) . If you want a bit of a challenge , you can walk <URL> , which is over 20km long ( but only 600 meters of altitude difference ) . You could do this to get there ( instead of the final leg of the train ride ) , but plan for 7 hours walking time . Out of Tokyo , there is <URL> , not really a sacred mountain as such , but a mountainous area which has a number of important shrines and temples ( including the burial place of the founder of the Tokugawa Shogunate ) , and lies next to a national park with great scenery ( including a lake and a famous waterfall ) and hiking trails . Scenery-wise , this is probably the better choice . Be aware that both of these are major tourist destinations - you wo n't be alone ( except on the hiking trails ; the Japanese do n't seem to be much into hiking ) .
end question
start question
Long-ish term trailer rentals ?
You 're probably looking for something like <URL> . They will drive a large ( 8m3 ) storage box to your home , you load your things into it , and then <URL> and then they will bring the box to your destination and you unload it again . For an additional fee they will also <URL> .
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
You 've a multiple ICT T2 visa &amp; you 're eligible to travel back to UK again but as you do n't have any assignment here in UK , its better that you apply for a separate tourist visa . Why so ? The UK immigration officers will ask you the purpose of your visit &amp; when you 'll say " just a friendly visit " or something like that , it would be a violation of your ICT visa . I hope this helps .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
There 's no time limit - as long as you 're traveling that day you will be allowed through security and allowed into the lounge . You do n't even need to be flying AA - as long as you can physically get to the lounge and have paid your money then you will be allowed in . The only real restriction is if you are planning to check luggage , in which case you will not be able to check your luggage until ~ 3-4 hours before the departure time of the flight .
The very next day , if you can convince the border agent that you 're using your visa for the appropriate means , and are n't trying to ' live ' there instead . They 're going to wonder what took 141 days and now needs more . If you 're backpacking across the country , say , they can see evidence of your travels and you can show that say , you were now heading up to Churchill to see the polar bears and therefore need another few weeks . They 're going to want to know how long you 're going for this time , and what you 're planning on doing . It gets a bit more unclear if you 're a digital nomad like yourself . Technically you 're working for a US company from Canada . Some countries and guards can be very iffy on that . Essentially , they may see it as you living and earning money there , benefiting from their roads and so on , without paying and Canadian taxes . And that 's not approved . However , if you provide them with your business address and show that you 're travelling as a tourist as well , it might be deemed more acceptable . Short version : You 're going to have to convince the border agent that you 're not living there tax-free , but are a bona-fide visitor , there for normal visitor reasons , who plans on returning to the US where you live . EDIT : Indeed , from the <URL> : To visit Canada , you must : have a valid travel document , such as a passport , be in good health , convince an immigration officer that you have ties -- such as a job , home , financial assets or family -- that will take you back to your home country , convince an immigration officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your visit , and have enough money for your stay . ( The amount of money you will need can vary . it depends on things like how long you will stay , and whether you will stay in a hotel or with friends or relatives . ) I 've highlighted the key bit . If it 's apparent or seems that your plan is just to keep re-entering Canada , they may well disqualify you . Indeed , when I lived in Vancouver I had a friend from Utah who went to renew her visa , and was seen to be ' living ' there ( She was actually trying to move to Vancouver long term , just did things in the wrong order ) and was given 2 days to pack up and leave . So basically , that 's what your entry request will be tested against .
People in CS can tell on their profile which is the maximum number of nights they want to host , so I think that filtering on that you will be able to identify the kind of hosts that fit your travelling policy . In my personal experience , being member of CS since the beginning of 2009 and living in Pisa ( so , a lot of requests every day ) , people ask for 1 to 3 nights so , yes , it is unusual to stay for more than 3 days . Of course this can depends on the nature of the city : Rome is not visitable in just two days while Pisa is . Moreover , it is not unusual for people to ask to be hosted several times , usually at the beginning and at the end of a trip . That 's what happened with some Americans I hosted when they landed in Pisa and at the end of their travel through Italy before taking the plane back .
I think it 's impossible to give a definitive answer to that question . The controlling norm is the Schengen Borders Code , specifically article 5 : For the purposes of implementing paragraph 1 , the date of entry shall be considered as the first day of stay on the territory of the Member States and the date of exit shall be considered as the last day of stay on the territory of the Member States . Periods of stay authorised under a residence permit or a long-stay visa shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the duration of stay on the territory of the Member States . I do n't think it unambiguously answers your question one way or the other . As all languages have equal weight , I also checked the German and French versions of the regulation and they are similarly ambiguous . The strongest evidence that this sentence should be interpreted in a specific way would be a ruling of the EUCJ but as far as I know it never had to decide on this particular issue . And of course , with no entry or exit stamps at internal borders , enforcement would be nearly impossible , but that 's obviously a distinct question .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
Take a taxi to the nearest MTR Airport Express train station , which would be Tsing Yi or Kowloon . Then take the train . It takes 24 minutes to get to the airport , and <URL> . There are many buses that also go to the airport . You can find a full listing of them <URL> .
Although they say <URL> , when I did it , it only took a couple of weeks after submitting my application . At that point I had to make an appointment to go down to the airport for an interview . I was able to find an appointment date easily . The process at the airport took about half an hour and then I was good to go right away .
You do not need ( and can not get ) a short-stay visa for the Schengen area ( including France ) as the US is on the list in annex II of <URL> . You can therefore present yourself at the border ( i.e. take a plane to Europe ) without any prior formality . Theoretically , you might be asked to show you fulfil a number of conditions like having sufficient financial means ( e.g. that you have a credit card ) or a valid purpose for your stay but in practice and unless you raise some red flags , you will just be asked a couple of questions and stamped in . And yes , you can go in and out of France as much as you wish for the next six months ( or even after that ) , provided you never exceed <URL> . Since you do not have a visa , there is no need to renew anything . You will merely get entry and exit stamps that document your stays in the Schengen area and are used to enforce the 90-day limit I just mentioned . It 's not relevant for you as US citizen but for people who do need a Schengen visa , what is allowed depends entirely on the visa . A Schengen visa can be valid for up to 5 years but can also be ( much ) more restrictive , there is absolutely no guarantees that it will be valid for six months or allow a 90-day stay and no direct link with the 90/180 days rule ( which , for visa holders , is just an upper bound on what can be granted ) . First-time applicants usually get a visa that covers their first intended trip , nothing more , and might be forced to apply for a new visa for each subsequent trip ( which means providing all the documents to the consulate , paying the fee and waiting for the decision again ) . It 's only after several trips and if they have a good reason to visit the Schengen area regularly that visa nationals get a multiple-entry visa valid for one year or more ( in which case the 90-day limit applies ) .
Some rules explained here ( in French ) : <URL> And a version in English : <URL> It depends on which fare you have paid when booking your ticket . TGV are in the category Trains à réservation obligatoire , that 's why there 's a car/seat number . Concerning your experience , either you had a Tarif Pro ticket , either you were lucky . Because with all other tickets , you either can not use it in another train ( Prem 's ) or have a fee to pay to change train .
You must arrive within 6 hours . The ticket expires 6 hours after validation and if your ticket is checked on the train more than 6 hours from validation , you will be subject to a fine . You may get on and get off multiple times and use the same ticket . The validity of the Cinque Terre train ticket is specifically designed to allow you to visit multiple or all towns on the one ticket . <URL> Tickets are good for 5 , 10 and 20 kilometers , you have to validate them at the yellow machines in the station before you start your journey . They are valid for 6 hours . 10 km tickets are all you need for the 5 villages . Tickets will be checked on the train ! The trains run till about 11:30 pm And a single ticket exists which allows you to visit all of the Cinque Terre . <URL> An alternative for those who decide not to walk and want only to move by train would be to buy a round trip ticket Sestri Levante - Riomaggiore at a cost of $ 4.00 per person each way ( always with the regional trains ) , this ticket has a validity of 6 hours from the validation time and you can stop about 1 hour in every village . This solution is certainly the most economically advantageous but it seems that the Park intends to force all visitors to the <URL> , in this case we will inform you in time !
It depends on if you are a visitor or if you are a Californian resident . Visitors are allowed to use their foreign driver 's licence without limitation . If you become a resident of California , you must obtain a Californa driver 's license within 10 days . Source : <URL>
While there 's always an inherent possible risk with these types of sites ( VBRO , AirBnb , even hostel websites ) - for the most part , they work fine - otherwise they would n't work ! Always look at any reviews on the property/owner - if any , and see if there have been any noted problems in the past . Perhaps Google the address or property as well , just to make sure it is where it says it is . If there 's a phone number , you could call to double check on some aspects - what 's included , and so on . However , if you 're really paranoid , or cautious - say , if you 've just put down $ 1000 on a rental , you could consider their <URL> , where from $ 39 , they 'll cover you for up to $ 10,000 in fraud , misrepresentation or even just a double-booking .
It 's definitely legal and possible , but whether it 's practical depends on the airline . Some ( typically state-run airlines ) will allow or even promote such long stopovers as a way to attract tourists to the stopover location . I believe Emirates does this for Dubai . But many other airlines will have drastically higher prices for such tickets as a part of yield management ( which is all about making people who have specific time requirements pay more ) .
my name is Brando Yelavich . I 'm 19 and I 'm simply walking around New Zealand without using roads , so on the beaches and coastlines living off the land . You can watch my progress here <URL> ( facebook page ) . I 'm 78 days in and just about at the bottom of the north island . It is going to take me about 1 1/2 years . I 'm doing it solo , so no support crew , just me and my pack . Just the mapping took 3 weeks , to do it depends on the type of person you are to whether you could take this adventure on .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
end question
start question
Are there visa issues when transiting in India if connecting flights are booked separately ?
The biggest factor will be if the two airlines have an interline agreement , which will determine if you can check your baggage through to your final destination . It would be wise to check with your originating airline to find out who they have agreements with ( often listed in the baggage info section of their website ) before buying your HK ticket . If they can check your bags through AND you are transiting through a major airport like Delhi , Mumbai , etc AND you will be in country less than 24 hours , then you can remain airside in the transit lounge without a visa . If they can not check your bags through or if you are transiting via one of India 's secondary international airports without a sterile transit area , you will need a visa . But India does offer transit visas for this purpose .
Straight from the source : <URL> If you are a U.S. resident returning from a foreign country with goods acquired abroad in your possession after a stay of 48-hours or more , you may be eligible for a personal duty-free exemption . If you are returning from Mexico , the 48-hour rule does not apply . The personal exemption you are eligible for depends on the country you are returning from . For instance , if you are returning from countries other than the Caribbean countries or U.S. insular possession you are entitled to an $ 800 duty-free exemption and the next $ 1,000 worth of the goods you purchased is subject to a flat rate of 3 % . If the value exceeds $ 1,800 , the remaining duty will be determined based on duty rates in the harmonized tariff schedule , which are generally between 0-10 % ( except for clothing and textiles , which can be much higher , up to 25 % ) . If you are returning from a U.S. insular possession ( i.e. U.S. Virgin Islands or Guam ) you are entitled to a $ 1,600 duty-free exemption and the next $ 1,000 worth of the goods you purchased is subject to a flat rate of 1.5 % . If you are returning from a foreign country other than Mexico and were not there for a total of 48 hours you are entitled to a $ 200 duty-free exemption and the next $ 1,000 worth of the goods you purchased is subject to a flat rate of 3 % . If the value of your goods exceeds $ 1,200 , the remaining duty will be determined based on duty rates in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule . Resident " Resident " here basically means anyone who is not on a visitor 's visa , and includes not only citizens and permanent residents ( obviously ) but also students ( F1 visa holders ) , H1B visa holders etc. . Counterfeit goods As asked in the comments , there are restrictions on importing counterfeit goods , but individuals are allowed to bring single instances of a counterfeit item so long as it is for personal use . So importing one knock-off Prada bag is fine , bringing two more for your friends is not ( even if the counterfeit brands are different on each . ) Full details are to be found here <URL> .
Since you 're not using an agency , you 'll need a credit card with a big enough limit . In order to get the confirmation in order , they will need to get the charge approved and posted to your account . When you cancel , you 'll get a credit from them . Time it so that the debit and credit fall within the same billing cycle to avoid having to make a payment or accrue interest . Cancel well in advance of the flight , do n't check in , and use the same website you used to book the ticket . Booking with a Chinese carrier can be expensive . You 're getting the money back ( probably ) , but there will be a sizable charge ( could easily be several thousand RMB ) posted to your card . You may also incur foreign transaction or currency conversion fees from your card provider , quite possibly both coming and going , and these will not be refunded . <URL> will let you cancel full fare economy class tickets for free , as long as you do n't wait until the last minute to do it . I put together a sample ticket on their site from Ho Chi Minh to Guangzhou , leaving May 7 and returning May 8 . Full fare economy price : ~ 8500CNY ( ~ 1400USD ) . To see the details of their cancellation policy , you have to actually select an itinerary through the booking interface , because the refund policies vary by ticket type . 1.3 Rebooking Fee ( per change ) : free to change/rebook . Passengers will also need to pay the difference in fare ( if any ) . For tickets booked on Air China official website , rebooking can be done through the official website or 95583 . For tickets booked through other channels like Taobao flagship store , rebooking can be done through 95583 only . [ 95583 is a special service number you can call only via a Chinese mobile carrier . ] 1.6 Refund fees ( children 's ticket are subject to the same standard that apply to adult tickets ) : Free to refund . For refunds of partially used tickets , the refund amount will be calculated after deducting the fare and taxes corresponding to the flight segment ( s ) used . <URL> ( emphasis added ) : 10.3 Voluntary Refunds 10.3.1 If you are entitled to a refund of your Ticket for reasons other than those set out in 10.2 , the amount of the refund shall be : 10.3.1.1 if no portion of the Ticket has been used , an amount equal to the fare paid , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees ; 10.3.1.2 if a portion of the Ticket has been used , the refund will be an amount equal to the difference between the fare paid and the applicable fare for travel between the points for which the Ticket has been used , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees . 10.5 Right to Refuse Refund 10.5.1 We may refuse a refund where application is made after the expiry of the validity of the Ticket . 10.5.2 We may refuse a refund on a Ticket which has been presented to us , or to Government officials , as evidence of intention to depart from a country , unless you establish to our satisfaction that you have permission to remain in the country or that you will depart from that country by another carrier or another means of transport . That last bit is most likely intended for trying to cancel the return trip after arriving in China , but could technically be employed in your case . The Air China website is actually quite good as Chinese e-commerce platforms go . To cancel , <URL> , click the cancel tab , enter your information , and confirm through . If there 's some problem with the site , it should n't be an issue getting English language <URL> , but you may need to make an international call as I do n't know if the <URL> have English speaking reps. You can probably also cancel by logging in and viewing your details , but I ca n't verify that at this time . For a much lesser charge , ITA Matrix lists China Southern as the cheapest carrier at ~ 7m VND ( ~ 325 USD ) ( same dates and airports ) . <URL> does n't list anything terribly specific either way about cancellations , though it does sound relatively reasonable . After actually picking out an itinerary on their site , I was able to find this ( translation by Google ; no link as it 's JSP generated ) : Cancel Totally unused tickets Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 20.00 ( usd ) . Partially used ticket Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 40.00 ( usd ) . <URL> . They 're a reputable site for English language booking of transportation within China . The copyright notice at the bottom says 2010 , so I do n't know if the data is out of date . According to them , most of the carriers charge a 5 % cancellation fee assuming you cancel well in advance and are flying a full class economy fare . Discounted fares have much steeper cancellation penalties . I have not vetted most of this information , but it matches my experiences with Air China and China Eastern . I also do n't cancel flights much , so take that for what it 's worth .
You 're going to have to dig really deep into the specs of the phone to answer your question . The issue is not the features themselves but the frequency spectrum on which these features are available . You can look at : <URL> <URL> to see what is typically available in Israel . From experience : IPhone 4S from AT&amp;T works like a charm in Israel for both Data and Voice . As far as I know GSM Voice Frequencies used in Israel are : 800 ( old , possibly decommissioned ) , 900 , 1800 , which IPhone and most Androids support . The rest you will have to find out . Now if you wanted to use CDMA , like Verizon does in Israel , roaming does n't work on Cellcom 's network as far as last information I have .
As far as I know there is no such website or app that allows to book last-minute cheap flights . So you have to use any of the well-known services . In particular , the flight trip between Barcelona and Madrid ( or viceversa ) is known as " puente aereo " ( literally " aerial bridge " ) and in general the cheapest company that operates this route is <URL> ( 13 flights per day ) . Prices starts from 50-70 $ but it depends on the schedule . Also the high-speed train is a good option and the bus is the cheapest option .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
" Airline transit passengers travelling with a stopover at Dubai Airport ( or other UAE airport ) who do not leave the terminal building , do not need a UAE visa since they are not entering the UAE . " Taken from <URL> Moreover " Transit passengers stopping at Dubai International Airport for a minimum of 8 hours and meeting certain conditions mentioned below are eligible for obtaining a 96-hour transit visa . " from <URL> So technically you CAN NOT and therefore need not apply for a transit visa
There are some <URL> ( common but <URL> ) that the lower air pressure ( and humidity ) in a plane 's cabin increases the risk of thrombosis . Another factor is that buses usually have toilet breaks every couple of hours , which gives everyone an opportunity to stretch their legs - and people are more likely to make use of these opportunities than to do it regularly in a plane because there is more room and they 're reminded and encouraged by the bus stopping and lots of others getting off .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
If you 're on international flight , staying less than 24 hours in airport , and are not leaving it , you do not need a transit visa . Look at <URL> .
<URL> list all the big Christmas markets in Switzerland . I can really recommend those two that are in the <URL> It sounds weird but they are really nice . As a plus next to the Christmas market in Zurich 's main station , there are a lot of open air bars in the courtyard of the <URL> where you can get Glühwein and Raclette , typical food and drink during Christmas in Switzerland . As lejohn already mentioned , also the <URL> is worth a visit . Here you see a picture of the Christmas market in Zurich 's main station . The huge Christmas tree is decorated with <URL> crystals . And here is a picture of the Landesmuseum 's courtyard where you can get Raclette and Glühwein . It is also possible to do some ice skating there :
You can easily fly to Zurich . The connections from Brussels to Zurich are way better than the connections from Brussels to Basel . And from Zurich you 're in less than a hour in Basel when you take the train . The prices for that train travel start around 15 Swiss franks . The SBB ( Swiss national train carrier ) has an <URL> . I found flights for around 300 euros for next week ( with <URL> ) You could also fly over Geneva to Zurich which is cheaper ( around 200 euro ) . Then I would think about only take the first leg of the flight , leave the plane in Geneva and take the train . But this really depends on the actual date and time you 're going to fly . You could also fly to Geneva , but this is a little bit further away from Basel . The train takes <URL> . There are also other airports nearby which may be useful ( even if I doubt it ) . This are particularly Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein .
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
I found a list of laundry service providers in Bangkok . You can look over it . I hope it will help you to find your nearest service provider . <URL>
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
No issues as long as you put it in your checked luggage . Refer to <URL> page . Remember to pack extras of important health supplies in case of travel delays . This is especially important for items that may be difficult to get at your destination , like prescription medicines . Note that for special medicine/equipment like Needles or syringes , you may need a letter from your doctor .
Great question , I will try to give at least a partial answer . <URL> , CAT , is more prominent where there are high mountains . The mountains might direct air up , or suck it down etc. . Making the winds normally found at any given altitude mix in such a way that air pockets are born . One example are the <URL> . BOAC Flight 911 broke-up in flight in 1966 after experiencing severe lee wave turbulence just downwind of Mount Fuji , Japan . What might not be so easy to figure out are the <URL> . In the jet streams wind has a vastly different speed compared to winds of the surrounding air , transitioning such a barrier in a plane can cause a lot of turbulence . I do n't remember exactly how those jet streams work , but I believe there are some areas where they are more or less all the time , and some areas where they are not so frequent . They are formed in areas of high temperature differences . So I say yes , there are routes with more turbulence than others . However if there are any numbers on that I 'm not sure :( As far as I can tell you are simply more likely to encounter CAT in certain areas than others . The main commercial relevance of the jet streams is in air travel , as flight time can be dramatically affected by either flying with the flow or against the flow of a jet stream . Clear-air turbulence , a potential hazard to aircraft passenger safety , often is found in a jet stream 's vicinity . With this commercial relevance in mind I am not sure if the airlines try to avoid these potential problem areas or if the economic interests are too strong .
A BitCoin Visa debit is a Visa debit card , and will <URL> as one where <URL> are accepted . Where can I use my card ? ( BitPay ) You can use your BitPay Prepaid Visa ® card at any online or brick and mortar merchant that accepts Visa ® Debit cards . Where can I use my <URL> Debit Card ? At any merchant that accepts VISA . The Xapo Card works just like any other debit card , but instead of drawing funds from your bank account , it debits purchases directly in bitcoin from your Xapo main wallet . You can use the card for online purchases , to shop at your local store , or at ATMs . Where can I use my debit card ? ( Wagecan ) Almost everywhere ! Any retail , merchant , point-of-sale terminals and ATMs , as long as you see ' Card Issuer Accepted ' , you can use it . Note that not all companies will ship their cards to India , BitPay <URL> , Xapo <URL> and CryptoPay <URL> . <URL> seems to ship worldwide . According to this <URL> , BitCoin is not yet regulated in India , but it is n't illegal . As you 'd expect , adoption rates are higher in urban centres ( Mumbai , Delhi , Pune , Bengaluru , Hyderabad , Kolkata , and Chennai ) , but <URL> still seems <URL> . This <URL> and particularly this <URL> ( both July 2016 ) discuss the state of BitCoin in India .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
end question
start question
Can I stay in UK after finishing my short English language courses ?
The student visitor route was <URL> and student visitor visas were " rebranded " into <URL> . At that point your visa automatically converted into a " short-term student " , and those visas are governed by Paragraphs A57A - A57H of the rules ... Rebrand the student visitor , and extended student visitor routes into new routes for short term study , which sit in Part 3 of the Rules , so that the routes are conceptually clearer for those undertaking short courses The rule pertinent to your question is covered in <URL> ... intends to leave the UK at the end of the study or at the end of 6 months whichever is sooner . So you need to figure out which of those two events happen sooner . But ... Because you were caught in a transition , you may wish to challenge it . In that case you should <URL> . Trying to sign up for more courses is unlikely to be successful and may damage future applications . Because you are a visa-national , it could get complex fairly quickly .
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
The answer is " Yes " but only if you are arriving from an intercontinental flight . EuroBonus Gold &amp; Diamond members can also access SAS lounges if arriving from a SAS-operated intercontinental flight ( except at Newark due to airport authority regulations ) . <URL> I would presume from the phrasing that access would not be granted on arriving from a shorthaul flight . Since CPH is SAS 's hub , it is likely that the " Lounge Dragons " ( or " Lounge Angels " if we are to be kind ) know the regulations better than most . I suppose it could not hurt to ask if you can enter .
Staying in Croatia does indeed not count towards your Schengen stay . <URL> : Stays in Bulgaria , Croatia , Ireland , Romania , Cyprus and the United Kingdom shall not be taken into account as they are not ( yet ) part of the Schengen area without internal borders . Croatia has its own 90 out of 180 rule , as can be read on <URL> of their Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs . Holder of a valid Schengen visa do not need to apply separately . Note that Croatia intends to apply for joining the Schengen area in 2015 . Depending on the outcome and how soon your journey is , this should be taken into account .
If you want to use data on your phone then you need to buy a local SIM card . Do not use data if you are using your original SIM on a roaming plan . The costs are beyond insane . Call Verizon and establish whether your phone is unlocked and whether you are able to change SIMs . If the phone is locked and Verizon wo n't unlock it , then your options are nil , and you have to pay the insane roaming costs . Make sure you understand those costs well before you leave . For advice on how/where to pick up a SIM card , see feklee 's reply to this answer .
Want to know if I can travel alone to UK and then can my wife join me later in UK once she get 's her standard visa ? That 's fine . This is not an unusual case . Your wife should explain this in her application . Will the Immigration Officer at the Heathrow airport allow her to enter UK ? If she has an entry clearance in her passport with all the implicit caveats ( not forged etc ) , then the IO will land her in the normal case . You should absolutely be in the arrivals gallery with a name tag or something else that makes you easy to identify in case the IO wants to ask you a question . It 's all very normal .
It seems reapplying is one option . Since rebooking the flight is much costlier than reapplying , I am going to reapply . EDIT : - I reapplied following exactly same procedure as I did the first time . Got a call from British Consulate , NY as to why I am applying again when I already have visa . I explained the reason and that person was okay with that . Got approval email a couple of hours later . My UPS package has already started from there and should be here tomorrow morning . In the end , saved more than a grand ! It was worth the effort .
The Visa-Waiver Program , or VWP ( which is what the ESTA relates to ) allows you to enter the US for the purposes of Tourism or Business , but not for ' work ' . The distinction here is really down to where you are paid . Presuming you are already working for this company , and being paid in the UK , then your visit to their US offices is classified as a " business " trip , and is thus eligible for entry under the VWP . Whilst you are in the US you are able to participate in ' business ' for your company , but in effect this must be the same type of business that you would have been carrying out whilst you were in the UK . They can not pay you any additional wage ( other than expenses/etc ) over what you would normally have done in the UK , and they can not pay you locally in US dollars or in any form that would require you to have a US Social Security Number . ie , you 're good ! This is one of the purposes the VWP was designed for , and I 've personally done exactly what you 're describing at least a dozen times ( from Australia rather than the UK , but otherwise the exact same situation ) The definition of what is allowed under a B-1 visa ( and thus also under the VWP ) is defined in the <URL> The relevant section is : 9 FAM 41.31 N8 ALIENS TRAVELING TO UNITED STATES TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS , NEGOTIATIONS , CONSULTATIONS , CONFERENCES , ETC. . ( CT : VISA-701 ; 02-15-2005 ) Aliens should be classified B-1 visitors for business , if otherwise eligible , if they are traveling to the United States to : ( 1 ) Engage in commercial transactions , which do not involve gainful employment in the United States ( such as a merchant who takes orders for goods manufactured abroad ) ; ( 2 ) Negotiate contracts ; ( 3 ) Consult with business associates ; ( 4 ) Litigate ; ( 5 ) Participate in scientific , educational , professional , or business conventions , conferences , or seminars ; or ( 6 ) Undertake independent research . It 's also worth specifically reading the section in that document regarding the " Board of Immigration Appeals in Matter of Hira " , which basically holds that partaking in work actives whilst in the US , whilst not being paid locally ( other than expenses ) as a part of future work that will principally be performed outside of the United States , IS covered by B-1 status . You can find a copy of the Hina ruling on the <URL> The main confusion with B-1 / VWP is the very mis-used term " work " . In general in immigration law , " work " when used in most contexts actually relates to being employed and/or remunerated ( other than reasonable expenses ) in that country , not the act of actually working . As an example of this , the Department of Justice/INS document " <URL> " specifically states that the " B-1 classification applies when a foreign employer requires an alien employee to work temporarily in the United States ( US ) pursuant to the foreign employer 's international transactions . " ie , it is permissible to " work " in the US whilst under B-1 status , but not to be " employed " in the US . ( Note that the " foreign employer " part of this statement will almost certainly be true , even though the person claims to work for a " US Company " on the grounds that the actual employer will be a local subsidiary of the US company - at least from a legal perspective )
First , check whether you need a visa at all . You have n't indicated your nationality , so presumably you have found that you need a visa . According to <URL> , an uncle is not one of the types of family members that would make you eligible for a family visa ( it is generally only immediate family and direct ancestors or descendants ) . Therefore , you probably need to apply for a general visitor visa .
You would have to get a prepaid card ; but you wont be able to make calls to India from a prepaid number - a 20 Euro charge will probably give you around 5mins talktime to foreign countries before it is depleted ... Get one of those phone cards where you call a special number and you have much better rates ( " calling cards " , see comments ) ; the area around the Main Train station in Frankfurt should have shops who sell those cards . You are probably better off using skype to call home . Do n't buy anything at the Airport ; too expensive .
Will I have to always enter the UK even on the second trip first before I can make my way through to Dublin ? You have an entry clearance issued under the British-Irish Visa Scheme ( BIVS ) and have entered the UK previously and want to know if this counts as meeting the requirements towards a separate trip to ( or through ) the Republic of Ireland . No , once you leave the Common Travel Area , your BIVS ' resets ' in the sense that the original requirements must be met again . Your first entry must be in the country that issued the visa . The standard ' go to ' page for BIVS is <URL> , and this scheme is not explicitly addressed <URL> themselves . It is a policy created by <URL> by the previous government , and subject to withdrawal by either side . Also note that information submitted to either side is made available to the <URL> .
In the case of the UK , <URL> . These are discounted early-bird single journey fares , available in limited numbers and with strict conditions . Advanced tickets are valid only for the selected journey ( although they are changeable prior to departure ) and non-refundable . Turns out that <URL> , broken down per subsidiary . This page is automatically updated every day , since Advance Ticket sales open roughly as early as 12 weeks before departure . Note that the train journey will appear in the <URL> , and hence be available for reservation , only after the train timetable has been finalised and published . Moreover <URL> . This is to say that the opening of the Advance Ticket sales does not guarantee that a ticket for the journey can be booked .
You do not need ( and can not get ) a short-stay visa for the Schengen area ( including France ) as the US is on the list in annex II of <URL> . You can therefore present yourself at the border ( i.e. take a plane to Europe ) without any prior formality . Theoretically , you might be asked to show you fulfil a number of conditions like having sufficient financial means ( e.g. that you have a credit card ) or a valid purpose for your stay but in practice and unless you raise some red flags , you will just be asked a couple of questions and stamped in . And yes , you can go in and out of France as much as you wish for the next six months ( or even after that ) , provided you never exceed <URL> . Since you do not have a visa , there is no need to renew anything . You will merely get entry and exit stamps that document your stays in the Schengen area and are used to enforce the 90-day limit I just mentioned . It 's not relevant for you as US citizen but for people who do need a Schengen visa , what is allowed depends entirely on the visa . A Schengen visa can be valid for up to 5 years but can also be ( much ) more restrictive , there is absolutely no guarantees that it will be valid for six months or allow a 90-day stay and no direct link with the 90/180 days rule ( which , for visa holders , is just an upper bound on what can be granted ) . First-time applicants usually get a visa that covers their first intended trip , nothing more , and might be forced to apply for a new visa for each subsequent trip ( which means providing all the documents to the consulate , paying the fee and waiting for the decision again ) . It 's only after several trips and if they have a good reason to visit the Schengen area regularly that visa nationals get a multiple-entry visa valid for one year or more ( in which case the 90-day limit applies ) .
As a general rule , it takes 15 days for the response to an application ( see <URL> ) ; and as you need to provide your travel details the consulate is aware of your deadlines - this however does not trump their internal process . You do n't get the visa after the interview , the date when you can collect the visa is given to you by the consulate or VFS . The experience that I have with Schengen is that the embassy calls you when your passport is available for collection this does n't mean that the application is approved . Do submission of papers and processing biometric confirm the start of the process for Visa ? I am perturbed about dates . The best way I can answer this is to describe the visa process : There are three steps to this process [ a ] validation of application , [ b ] collection of biometrics and [ c ] interview . Once you arrive for your appointment , the officer ( or agent , in the case of VFS ) enters the information on the paper application into an electronic system , your supporting documents verified , your passport is scanned . Next , your fingerprints are scanned to be attached as part of your application ( this should happen only on your first application , but I believe based on the nationality they scan the data each time ) . Any fees required are collected and you are given a receipt and a token/reference number that represents your application . If you are lucky enough to submit the application at the embassy , you may be interviewed at the same time ( like I was ) . This interview generally asks questions that are not on the application form itself . However , these days most foreign missions are outsourcing their processing and unfortunately these outsourced agents are not authorized to conduct interviews - which is why you have to get a separate appointment . Next , your documents , photo , passport is submitted to the visa issuing center . This may or may not be in the same country or city where you apply . For example , in Kuwait for the Netherlands ; the visa is issued from Amman , Jordan . In India , there may be a central processing station as it is a very large country . The timeline given to you of 15 days takes all this account ; and it starts from the acceptance of your documents . If you are a first timer or there is any issue with your application , it may take upto 30 days and in extra ordinary circumstances , 60 days . The good news is that the agents/officers know the typical processing times for that station and will give you a very good estimate . The first time I applied for my Schengen visa , my passport was delivered 7 days before my flight departure . The second time , it took only 10 days and I got it well in advance .
My wife is an immigration consultant with her own license in Canada . Here is what she said to me when I asked her to read your question of course he can just come in and visit temporarily . that 's nothing to do with his working holiday visa . he will only get a work permit upon entry when he shows his visa approval letter to the immigration officer . Every time when people enter canada , officer will ask for the purpose of this visit . Depending on the purpose , officer will decide if the person should be let in directly or directed to the immigraton office to get papers So you have got nothing to worry about , state your purpose clearly and there is no need to show your acceptance letter .
I used to live near Regent 's Park and used to pass through on foot after closing times . I also took evening courses at <URL> which let out after closing times . Starting from the <URL> , you can take York Street and turn right after you cross the Outer Circle . This will take you to a wide grassy field abuting a children 's playground . It 's an area of the park called " Marylebone Green " in which you can star gaze . In this area you are also likely to see walkers returning from Marylebone to Primrose Hill . Depending upon the season , you may also see street urchins near the tennis courts collecting stray tennis balls . They may be undesirable company . There are other areas of the park which also can be reached from York Road/York Gate . Hyde Park is less restricted than Regent 's Park and you would be able to star gaze in the grassy fields immediately south of <URL> . Take care . I 'm also a member of a <URL> in Marylebone which has called for an alert on people molesting the swans at night . If you wander too close to the ponds , you might find a neighbourhood vigilante calling you in . Locals take those sorts of things with <URL> . Also avoid the ducks who might be feeding in the grassy areas . The comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) correctly points out that portions of the park are gated and if you get caught entering a gated area you 'll get a <URL> . Accordingly , stay away from the <URL> in Regent 's Park and other gated areas like in <URL> . Generally , the overall public mood is ' live and let live ' and that patrolling the park for out-of-hours violations is rather far down the list of police priorities . As long as you are not in a gated area and you have a reasonable premise , you 'll be fine .
It seems you wo n't have a problem with this , just make sure you carry the official documentation about your name change . It 's also very common to carry two passports , the old one with the valid visa and a newer one . Quoting the US <URL> : A change of name will not affect the validity of the visa . We recommend that when traveling , you carry a copy of the document showing the name change .
You can try the Radioshack chain in Cairo , I found a good quality adapter there for a reasonable price after realising I had forgotten to pack one . There are <URL> in central Cairo and the staff have a good level of English .
The safest approach to arrive in any city is to arrange for your hotel to pick up you , meaning there will be a guy with a sign with your name on it waiting for you right outside Customs . Just give them a ring and ask about " airport transfer " or " airport shuttle service " . The obvious downside is that this is usually expensive , often 2-4x the cost of a taxi .
end question
start question
How to find a co-working space in Lille as a tourist ?
From the website of La Cantine in Paris , I found <URL> in France . There happen to be at least 2 having a website in Lille . Both have an open space and coffee room with at least one meeting room . <URL> has <URL> , 2 euros per hour up to 10 euros per day . <URL> only targets regular coming people apparently , <URL> , but they offer a one-day trial if you email them . Otherwise , you still have the <URL> .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
You should be looking for accommodation that is explicitly listed for short stays . The majority of " regular " German flats-for-rent come unfurnished and you will have a hard time convincing the landlord to rent it to you when there are other people interested in lending it for > = 12 months . That is especially true if you do not have a residence permit . Also , rules such as that the walls need to be freshly painted when moving out are by no means uncommon . Consider looking for places that are listed as vacation rentals . Your favorite search engine should find you some sites to search for them . AirBnB may also be an option ( despite the fact that the legal situation for people offering accommodation within Germany on AirBnB is a bit tricky ) .
If you go to the website of the <URL> , you can find ( although a bit hidden ) a page where they state that the consular department started since 8 . January 2013 to process digital visa applications coming from <URL> . So if you go to that site you should be able to get your Visa Otherwise , there are agencies like <URL> and <URL> .
It is a gray area , and to get a definitive answer , you will have to send a complete list of equipment and shooting sites to a Guatemalan lawyer . Most landscape photographers I know travel around on tourist visa , although this is not completely legal . But they were never caught , mainly because they wo n't carry that much equipment , since artificial lighting of the Sierra Nevada would require at least one NPP , which falls under the hazardous goods restrictions and exceeds the weight limits . ;) While a professional photographer , going on vacation with some of his professional equipment , shooting photos for the primary purpose of keeping a memory for himself ( and secondary purpose of showing them around to his family and friends ) , is clearly still a tourist , reflectors and " studio shots " is another thing entirely . Throw in a room rented/lent for the shots , and you are one step further on the way to " work " - only the " for my relative " and the " not for money " part left to distinguish him from a paid professional . You should really consider how much risk to take , or whether slightly less professional photos are still good enough for the family album . Is there any requirement for indoor shots with studio equipment ?
Well this is a shocker for me but it seems like Australia got around to implementing this much more quickly than I would 've expected . <URL> states that China was added to the list exactly one week ago : Australia has added China to the list of countries whose citizens are eligible for Work and Holiday Visas . Implementation time frame : 21 September . And there 's only going to be 5,000 places per year for a country with an enormous population . So Chinese friends , apply now ! Update : My friend in China chased this up and tells me they only released the first 1,500 spots so far and those were all gone within minutes ! No word so far on when the next batch of spots will become available .
For train travel stuff your best first resource is Seat61.com , here 's the relevant part for <URL> . From the info there ( <URL> ) it seems you can not book on-line directly , but you can go through a travel agent to have them book the tickets in advance . The trains do sell out , but you do n't need to book months in advance ( unless you want to ) . Passengers are allocated seats and although the train will likely be full it 'll not be packed , the amount of people / space will depend which class you 're travelling in ( there 's pictures and more info on the link ) . I ca n't define the best way to buy the tickets , the cheapest would be to get them at Beijing station a week or so in advance . Anything else will involve paying a cut to an agent . However it sounds like you 're not there for that long so I 'd use one of the agency websites on the page I linked above . One other option is to contact your hotel / hostel and ask if they can arrange tickets for you and have them ready for when you arrive . As the site says large stations will have English speaking staff , plus you can get your hotel to write down the details in Chinese for you . In my experience if a place does n't have English speaking stuff , but has a lot of tourists , there are normal people hanging around willing to help you translate for a small tip ( although be careful about being scammed , etc ) .
Legally , probably . Sounds iffy , but that 's the state of the law at present - it 's evolving and is ' iffy ' . A US Appeals Court has determined <URL> , and that : " It is clearly established in this circuit that police officers can not , consistently with the Constitution , prosecute citizens for violating wiretapping laws when they peacefully record a police officer performing his or her official duties in a public area , " the appeals court said . The <URL> and states that : When in public spaces where you are lawfully present you have the right to photograph anything that is in plain view . That includes pictures of federal buildings , transportation facilities , and police . Such photography is a form of public oversight over the government and is important in a free society . and in regards to your camera/phone : Police officers may not confiscate or demand to view your digital photographs or video without a warrant . The Supreme Court has ruled that police may not search your cell phone when they arrest you , unless they get a warrant . Although the court did not specifically rule on whether law enforcement may search other electronic devices such as a standalone camera , the ACLU believes that the constitution broadly prevents warrantless searches of your digital data . The Huffington Post has an article - <URL> which confirms that it 's legal in all 50 states : " There 's no law anywhere in the United States that prohibits people from recording the police on the street , in a park , or any other place where the public is generally allowed , " Osterreicher said . However , conflicting state laws might still find you in hot water - they might go after you with another sneaky rule , for example , from the same article , according to Massachusetts law , citizens are permitted to record police officers in public , but only if the police have been informed that a recording is taking place . You 're more likely to run into problems if your recording interferes with police business , or if you 're being a nuisance . So if in doubt - ask the officers that you 're filming first , and avoid the complications of offense , arrest and trial ( if not worse ) if possible .
" Big ships " ( e.g. cruise ships ) , have very specific needs . Your chances of getting a job with one of them soar if you can meet one of those needs . " Recreational sailor " probably does n't " cut it " in this regard . Sailing ships need professionals . Most ships have computer and internet services . Your best shot may be at an IT role , but there may be more applicants than places . If you have hardware maintenance experience and are handy with tools ( you 're sailing experience suggests you are ) , you might be able to land a job in general maintenance . If you have an " esoteric " science backround ( e.g. in electrical engineering ) , that could be helpful . Otherwise , you 'd need to get job in some form of " customer service . " This could be manning the booking desks , or even cleaning rooms or " waitstaffing . " Make it clear that you expect very little pay , just " room and board " and some walking around money . You will be competing for these roles with candidates from developing countries . As for contact , I 'd stay away from the agencies , which have their own interests and not yours . Most of the shipping lines like to recruit at key ports ( not in the U.S. ) . Vancouver comes to mind for a Canadian . Otherwise London , Amsterdam , Hamburg , Hong Kong . Maybe somewhere off the beaten track such as Gdansk or Oslo . Good luck .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
Try these in search engine in google : inurl : tripadvisor.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " inurl : booking.com " fireplace " " central europe " " hotel " Add more keywords to place a specific country , etc. .
Why yes there is . <URL> . You enter your nationality , destination , and any visas you already hold , and it will tell you if you need a transit visa or not . It also includes instructions for applying for one . HOWEVER : There have been changes taking effect Dec 1 2014 to which countries ' nationals require transit visas . Regardless of the link above , <URL> . Procedures remain the same . Beware that the exemption conditions for visa-less landside transit are slightly different from the exceptions for Direct Airside Transit . As of this writing , the page linked above erroneously refers to a document describing the landside exemptions even from its section about DATV ; refer to the <URL> for the actual DATV exemptions . As a summary ( but check for exceptions ) : You must arrive and depart by air , and your outbound flight must be booked and confirmed . You do n't need a transit visa if you would not need a visa for a tourist visit to the UK . A transit visa comes in two forms : Direct Airside Transit Visa ( DATV ) which is limited to 24 hours and you must remain ' airside ' ( i.e. can not pass through immigration ) and a Visitor in Transit Visa , which is valid for 48 hours and allows you to change terminals or airports . You must have all the necessary documentation for your final destination , including any visas . You are exempt from needing a transit visa under certain conditions . These can be found at <URL> . As of 25 June 2015 , the conditions are : You might be eligible for ' transit without visa ' if : you arrive and depart by air [ you ] have a confirmed onward flight that leaves on the day you arrive or before midnight on the day after you arrive [ you ] have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : you 're travelling to ( or on part of a reasonable journey to ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and it 's less than 6 months since you last entered that country with a valid entry visa you have a residence permit issued by Australia or New Zealand you have a common format residence permit issued by an European Economic Area ( EEA ) country or Switzerland you have a residence permit issued by Canada issued after 28 June 2002 you have a uniform format category D visa for entry to a country in the EEA or Switzerland you have an Irish biometric visa and an onward flight ticket to the Republic of Ireland you 're travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it 's less than 3 months since you were last given permission , on the basis of holding a valid Irish biometric visa , to land or be in Ireland you have a valid USA permanent residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 you have a valid USA I-551 Temporary Immigrant visa issued by the USA ( a wet-ink stamp version will not be accepted ) you have an expired USA I-551 Permanent Residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 , with a valid I-797 letter authorising extension you have a valid standalone US Immigration Form 155A/155B issued by the USA ( attached to a sealed brown envelope ) You wo n't be able to transit without a visa if a Border Force officer decides you do n't qualify under the immigration rules . You can <URL> before you travel if you 're unsure whether you qualify for transiting without a visa . If you need more information than is provided by this website you will need to check with your airline or <URL> . The Home Office 's <URL> also provides some guidance on the subtler points of the rules ( it 's intended for professionals , not passengers , but does explain in great details when a visa is or is not required ) . Changes to the rules activating on 1 December 2014 A Statutory Instrument entitled " The Immigration ( Passenger Transit Visa ) Order 2014 " will make large portions of the above text obsolete . Please refer to the instrument itself at <URL> until further guidance becomes available . The government 's interactive page , which leads the user through a series of questions will take some time to sync up with the legislation ( if ever ) and should NOT be relied upon after the 2014 order takes effect . Note on UK Border Control In London Heathrow , if you fly from outside the UK or Ireland and leave to another country ( neither UK nor Ireland ) , it is possible to transit without entering the UK and going through UK Border Control , you can stay airside . There is no hotel airside , so <URL> , you have to go through UK Border Control . There is a <URL> available on Heathrow airport website . Update 25 July 2015 : Visa Seniority People on any kind of valid UK visa that is senior to a transit visa do not need an additional visa . It means the person ca
It is possible to get a 60 days tourist visa at the Indonesian Consulate in Singapore . Documents to provide : 65 Singapore dollars in cash - they do not accept card payments , &amp; they only accept Singapore dollars . Photo ID - although you can do one inside the consulate Copy of passport - although you can do one in consulate for 50 cents . Passport must haveat least 6 months remaining validity . Copy of proof of travel to Indonesia - i.e. Ferry ticket or plane ticket . Ferry ticket to Batam works fine . Copy of proof of backward travel : I had bought a ferry ticket back to Singapore and told me this was not needed . But other people , like Ashish ( see his answer ) , might have to provide one . So just bring one to be on the safe side , i.e. Ferry ticket from Batam to Singapore . Additionally , bring something of value to leave at the entrance ( a deposit to leave against the badge they lend you for your visit at the consulate ) : an id card , or a bank card , or a smartphone ( I only had that &amp; they accepted it ! ) , or else . Opening times : Seems like mornings are for visa applications : from 09:00 to 12:00 Seems like afternoons are for picking up visas : from 15:00 to 17:00 Dress code : No tank top No shorts Flip flops not ok in theory but fine in practice ( everyone was wearing them ) Another thing : there are toilets just before the entrance of the embassy , so that you can get changed there if needed . Get there : You can get there by metro , station <URL> . Then walk around 10 minutes to get there . See the <URL> . The address is : Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia , 7 Chatsworth Rd , Singapore 249761 Delay : When I went there , the process was very straight forward &amp; fast . I probably did n't spend more than 15 minutes at the embassy Processing your application takes 2 to 3 working days . In my case , I had to go get my visa 2 days later ( applied the Monday morning , picked up the visa on Wednesday ) Resources You can ( &amp; should ) double check all these info by visiting at least <URL> . Further details also on : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Result You will have such big stamp in your passport , yes it takes a whole page . <URL>
The French Consulate web site says the working holiday visa takes an average of 2 weeks , but 1 week is generally ok . We have an applicant of our <URL> program applying tomorrow , so will let you know the latest processing time . The quickest time this year has been 3 days , but it does vary .
Any kind of work effectively connected with U.S. i.e. performing some labor and getting any kind of compensation ( not necessarily monetary ) <URL> . What you describe fits into <URL> . Those can be arranged through some agencies ( e.g. au pair , work-travel , camp counselling and similar ) . Main purpose/focus is classified as cultural exchange , not as performing work for compensation . You will get a work permit ( as a part of visa ) for some limited time ( e.g. 2 months ) . For longer term unqualified labor ( especially ranch ) , there is <URL> , which has to be initiated by an employer , and is relatively long and complicated process .
The most likely answer is : whatever the check-in employees think . For example there 's a <URL> by <URL> where a man succesfully transforms a bag into a ' coat ' , allowing him to bring it on-board ( on Ryanair ! ) : If you can convince the airline employees that your ' bag ' is a ' vest ' , you 're good to go . If you ca n't , you 'll have to pay extra or check it in as a bag .
Have you tried to visit Jjimjilbang ? I seldom go to a public bath , and sometimes I can see a man with tattoo . I think most of Jjimjilbangs will not block you to use it . I am able to say this because I assumed that it will be a small tattoos ( i.e. on arms or on neck back . ) But with a big tattoo like covered whole your back ? . . Let 's think about it . I saw your linked question . In Japan , tattooed people might have been discriminated for some reasons . That is , probably , the awareness of tattoo is not good . In Korea , we also thought that way but slightly different . I think it is very related with the size of the tattoo . With smaller one , people think they want to make themselves unique . But bigger its size , people start thinking more that they are connected with/or a member of gangster . Actually , the size of tattoo is very important . Even if big one , they will not prohibit you to use it . I found out Some public bath noticed " A man who have big tattoos refrain from using this . " at internet news , even though they will not refuse you . Just enjoy it with some great care . I do n't know where sauna is exactly accepting tattooed people , but try to go to bigger sauna . It has a higher chance to not fail .
No . Any open fire requires a permit . A campsite might operate a communal campfire on special occasions , but guests are not allowed to light their own campfires . Reference : Icelandic Tourist Board , guidelines for campsites , section 5.7 : <URL> Það er stranglega bannað að kveikja eld á opnum svæðum . Leyfi frá lögreglu þarf ef fyrirhugað er að kveikja bálköst / varðeld á svæðinu . Loosely translated : It is illegal to light a fire in an open area . Permit from the police is required for lighting a bonfire / campfire in the area .
The short version is that <URL> . If your parents come to the US and incur massive medical bills , the hospital/insurance company can try to claim the back from the parents , but not you . And if your parents have no assets in the United States , it will generally be difficult to impossible to enforce payment of those debts overseas . Travel insurance is generally sold as a standalone product , where the insurance company takes on all the risk and does not require any sort of co-signed or guarantor . Since your parents apparently arranged their own insurance , there 's no way you could have accrued any legal liability for it . One potential exception : If your parents should happen to die in the United States , there is a possibility that you would be held responsible for their medical bills under <URL> laws , but these vary from state to state and are <URL> unless there 's evidence of ill will ( eg . you siphoning your parents ' bank accounts dry ) . Due to the ridiculous cost of medical treatment in the US , travel insurance to the US is usually expensive , doubly so if you are elderly . So in your shoes , I would be more concerned with checking that the coverage is adequate . Otherwise there is a low but non-zero risk of your parents being refused admission to a hospital , especially if it 's not directly life-threatening medical emergency .
<URL> is your friend . You can use that service from city to city , or - as I did in this case - from country ( Australia ) to city ( Hyderabad ) . If you are fortunate enough to fly with your own plane and want to have the closest airport in terms of distance , check the <URL>
end question
start question
Why are there no waste bins on public transport ?
At least in Germany , I do n't think security is an issue . Although it actually is uncommon to find waste bins in means of transport for shorter distances , you will find waste bins in most , if not all , regional and long distance trains or inter-city buses . I would rather assume that it is simply so tedious and/or time consuming to empty the waste bins , that none are installed . Intra-city means of transport are often quite crowded and it would be practically impossible for someone to walk through e.g. a packed subway wagon during normal operation to empty the bins . If the driver was supposed to empty the bins at the end of a line , this would take some time and cause both more personnel as well as more vehicles to be required .
The best option is to buy a " Trampoline " ticket on Lille - Kortrijk . This ticket costs 8 Euro and is valid the whole day on all trains ( both ways ) on the Lille - Kortrijk route . <URL> You can buy this at the ticket office , or from the ticket vending machines . Trying to do it all using " local " transport will make the trip a lot longer , and will unlikely be cheaper than the 8 euro Trampoline ticket . On weekends SNCF also offers Trampoline tickets to other destinations in Belgium . They 're a bit more expensive , but still good deals .
The bad news is , they simply did n't want to take a photo with you , that 's it . That 's the common excuse flight attendants use when they do n't want to take a photo with someone . To prove this , check this <URL> , in one of the most famous cabin crew groups in Facebook ( I do n't own it ) . You will see many photos for Emirates cabin crew with passengers . Check other albums as well , you will find the same . The rejection could also be due to the fact that it 's during the boarding , it 's somehow a critical time . So , next time ask in a better time , like after service for example . Emirates , as well as all other airlines ( AFAIK ) , has no rules regarding taking photos while on uniform , whether it 's with passengers , celebrities , in planes , in airports , etc. . It 's considered a free publicity . Of course , as long as the photo is " fine " and not degrading by any means . I am aware of one airline that totally prohibits this , which is Qatar airways . A photo with uniform has one punishment , that is termination , no exception for that except for the official photos by the airline itself . All the unofficial photos for Qatar crew members are published by their owners after they leave Qatar . This is a source of jokes actually among the cabin crew community .
OK , December 31st is not a <URL> but January 1st is . The Wikipedia article on Rio de Janeiro states in the <URL> that buses run 24 hours , but the metro runs a Sunday service on public holidays ( new years day happens to be a Sunday next year anyway ) Rest of week metro service : 5am - 12am Sunday metro service : 7am - 11pm The <URL> has some in-depth information about getting around Rio like last carriages on the metro being women-only . There is also a full run down of how the taxis work . Several of the visit Rio sites which , I wo n't link to as I 'm not sure if they 're factual so much as outright marketing material , suggest that getting away from the main attractions on new years eve will be extremely time consuming and one should find a club to ' wait it out ' , they also note that several beach-front hotels offer buffet breakfast ' very early ' . Useful stuff I found along the way : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Once in winter/spring , I traveled to <URL> by public transport . That was no big deal : They have a regular train station . I booked my ticket in advance using <URL> , because I was traveling from Germany . Getting to the top of the mountains from Kitzbühel is easy : Being a ski resort , they have a good infrastructure of cable cars . But , in fact , hiking up is more fun . Concerning prices , if it 's similar to Germany , it 's a good idea to book long distance trains in advance , because tickets then usually are cheaper . For regional trains , however , I expect it does n't matter when you book . According to Wikipedia 's German <URL> ( as of June 2013 ) : Long distance trains : RJ , ICE , ÖBB-IC , IC , EC , EN , D , IC-BUS Regional trains : R , REX , S , EZ
As Andra said , RER B ( 5stations ) + Metro ( 3Stations ) will be way faster than Ligne 4 all the way down . The thing is the interconnection Line 4 to the train can take you up to 10 minutes , moreover if you have lugages with you . But taking the line 6 from Denfert-Rochereau to Montpartnasse will save you this time , trains are at the first exit . Summary Gare Du Nord - > RER B - > Denfert Rochereau - > Line 6 - > Montparnasse Bienvenue Enjoy your trip and welcome in France :)
Our friends at Wikipedia have a page about <URL> , on there is a section about ' Roads without speed limits ' . Besides the German Autobahns , the only other roads that are currently without speed limits are rural roads on the Isle of Man , but I doubt you can go really fast on them .
Because it 's difficult to tell apart a bottle full water from a bottle full of a chemical like hydrogen peroxide that could be used to make liquid explosives . There was <URL> that apparently tried this in 2006 , and because " passenger convenience " will always lose out to " bureaucratic ass-covering " when it comes to security theater , <URL> . ( Unless they 're under 100ml , so yes , you can take a 100ml bottle of water on board ... if you can find one ! ) In Japan , they 've already got <URL> . These are increasingly being adopted by other countries , and once they 're widespread enough , the liquid silliness will hopefully end . Note that while you ca n't take a partly or completely filled > 100ml water bottle through security , it 's perfectly fine to take an empty bottle through security , and fill it up before you board the plane . Or you can buy a bottle once you 've passed security .
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
Picking a random date in the future , <URL> shows that flying to Larnaca and then going by airport shuttle is probably the cheapest option in terms of paying . However , if you 're searching elsewhere for flights , check out both Larnaca and Ercan as options , and flying out of both CDG and ORY in Paris , as they seem to produce quite different prices . Other than that , you 're down to hitching or cycling - driving and taking a ferry looks extremely exorbitant !
I looked at the <URL> and <URL> sites and it seems your best option is to buy a day ticket ( Tagesticket ) every day . It costs 5.70 Euros and allows unlimited travel within Duesseldorf . Single fares are 2.40 Euros , so if you do 3 or more rides , you 're better off using the day ticket . There is no 3-day pass available , just day tickets and monthly tickets . The farelevel from the airport to the center is A2 , while the day ticket is available for levels A , B , C , D and E . It is not totally clear on the web sites , whether the day ticket covers the airport . <URL> covers both A1 and A2 and lists a single price for the day ticket : $ 5.70 , so I assume you are fine with a day ticket level A for the airport .
They have the holes because of the machines that made them ( check DavidG 's answer ) , anyway this ice cubes with holes are better for planes for a few reasons : Because they are lighter ( believe it or not , every gram in the aviation business counts , plus the ice is not made onboard , it is loaded prior to departure just like the food ) They cool things faster due to larger area of contact with the liquid They also will allow more liquid to be filled in the already small airplane cups . Last thing , they do not tend to stick together in the ice bucket , so cabin crew wo n't need to smash it to break it down .
One reason is that not every country has computerised their passport/visa system . They 're coming along , but still . In addition , not every country 's system is linked together . So even if you scanned it in at one border , you ca n't tell that 's happened at the next . Crossing into Zambia in 2005 , they opened their book to the date , drew in a line for New Zealanders , and literally crossed off 5 lines ( | | | | with a -- through the four vertical lines ) . It costs a LOT of money . Some countries ca n't afford the investment to get all those systems built , and staff trained to use them . It 's cheaper to hire some chap who can ask questions and cross off lines in a book . So given all the different computer and paper based systems , the only way to transmit the fact that you have a visa , is to carry a piece of paper - ie , a stamp/visa . However , it 's improving . With the arrival of those smart passports with chips in them , we now have a common way of having data stored electronically and ( mostly ) securely . Next that needs to turn into visas . New Zealanders arriving home ( or visiting Australia ) can merely walk to a barrier , scan our chipped passports , get a photo taken and walk through . British citizens arriving home can have their iris scanned , no stamp required . So these are slowly changing , but will take time . In the meanwhile , you get to collect cool stamps ! :)
If you 're only going to be travelling within London ( i.e. not starting outside of London , and not visiting outside of London ) , then by far and away your best bet is either <URL> , or a <URL> . TFL have a <URL> on the Oyster Card , with details of how to get one . They also have a <URL> which explains what kinds of contactless payment cards they do and do n't support . Prices for Oyster and Contactless are , for most purposes , basically the same , and much lower than paper tickets . TFL have a dedicated <URL> including a handy intro video . One of the great things about an Oyster card or Contactless is that it 'll start out in Pay As You Go mode , then if you happen to spend enough in one day that a travel card would have been cheaper , then it 'll cap the cost at the travelcard fee for the rest of the day . It 's valid on the tube , on buses , on trains within London , and the DLR . If you 're starting from outside London each day , then it may make sense to buy a travelcard as part of a train ticket to London . Depends if you 're going to be doing lots of travel in London or not that day . However , you ca n't buy a ticket that 's ( Somewhere ) - > London , returning the next day , with travelcards both days , you can only get a travelcard valid for a day return ticket . So , if you were to be doing a trip in , travel round London for a few days , then a return , you 'd be better off with Oyster / Contactless . With contactless , you need a bank card / credit card of the right type to be supported by TFL . Check <URL> to see if yours will be . Contactless has the advantage of offering a weekly cap too , which Oyster does n't . Oyster has the advantage of being able to load weekly or longer travelcards onto it , can support discounts for railcards etc ( normally only useful for UK visitors ) , and Oyster can be topped up in one go while Contactless charges once per day , which can make a difference for overseas cards with usage fees . TL ; DR Do n't buy paper tickets for London only - use Oyster or Contactless , or possible a rail ticket with a travel card included in it .
<URL> As my other answer said , the larger islands ( like Wolfe island and Howe island ) are accessible by car ferry . The smaller islands ( anything where the map does n't show a road ) are mostly privately owned and not accessible to the public . The exceptions are those that are specifically open as tourist attractions . Two of the main ones are : Boldt Castle on Heart island Singer Castle on Dark island <URL> owns several of the islands and various sites in the area . They are generally accessible to the public , but do n't have much to see on them . Places open to tourists in the area of the Thousand islands include : Boat cruises out of Kingston or Gananoque Various War of 1812 battle sites Martello tower at Kingston
I contacted the Guernsey Information Centre , North Plantation , St Peter Port , GY1 2LQ Email : info.centre@cultureleisure.gov.gg There response was simply : " Sorry we do not have hostels in Guernsey only normal camp sites "
Count your Metro Trips The only metric I would use when budgeting public transportation costs in Rome is the number of metro journeys you think you 'll travel per day . The reason is simple : <URL> . In other words , if you exit the metro and still have some time to spare on the ticket , you wo n't be allowed to use it again on another metro trip . The Roma 24-hour ticket costs 4.67 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 24 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 5 or more times per day , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 5 single BIT tickets , since you 'd be saving money . Similarly , the Roma 48-hour ticket costs 8.33 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 48 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 9 or more times in two days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 9 single BIT tickets . Finally , the Roma 72-hour ticket costs 12 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 72 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 12 or more times in three days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 12 single BIT tickets . Frankly , most of the times I just stick with BIT tickets , since I usually only need 2 metro trips per day . Moreover , you 'll probably be walking more than you 'll be taking public transport , once you get to your designed tourist area .
Why do people do it today ? Because of the multitude of signs that say to do so ! If you 're asking why it started , <URL> holds what may be the answer ... If if you 've ever wondered why we do it , and why so many tourists get lost in translation , the answer may lie in a piece of film from the 1920s ... partly shot at Waterloo station and it was one of the first times the Tube system had appeared on film . The escalator design had a diagonal step-off , clearly meant for the right foot first so standing on the right made sense . ( the video also includes clips of 1920s tube-escalator-ettiquette cinema humour such as a soldier tripping up at the bottom of an escalator because he 's drilled to always march left foot first )
I do n't know why there are no road maps of Iceland - but to answer the implied question of other ways of getting Iceland maps the following may be helpful . When I 've needed navigation data for Iceland I 've used <URL> , on a Garmin device . It looks like it should be possible to get them to work on a TomTom for more details see <URL> . I 've got no experience using them on TomToms so I 'm afraid I ca n't offer any more advice on how to set it up .
I will only be in London for 2 days and plan to take the tube no more than 2 or 3 times , so it does n't make much sense to buy an oystercard . You can buy single journey paper tickets for the tube , but they strongly discourage it through pricing . I just looked up a zone 1 tube fare and it was # 2.40 on oyster but # 4.90 on a paper ticket . At those prices even if you do n't get your card deposit back ( or you get the visitor card with it 's non-refundable charge ) it does n't take very many journeys for oyster to beat paper tickets . Another option is to use a contactless credit/debit card but if you have a non-UK card beware of foreign transaction fees . Also note that while you can use paper single tickets on the tube you ca n't use them on busses in london . Your only options there are oyster , contactless and travelcards . ( I read there is an activation cost and you wo n't get a full refund if you use it for such a short time ) . There are two types of oyster card . Regular cards and visitor cards . Regular cards have a # 5 refundable deposit , visitor cards have a # 3 non-refundable " activation fee " . The visitor card can only be obtained outside london . Regular cards can be obtained at any tube station . The visitor card comes with a few special offers for london attactions that the regular card does n't but otherwise the cards are much the same . AIUI with cash at a machine you can top up any ammount down to the smallest coins the machine will take while if you pay by card at a machine or pay at a ticket office the minimum top-up is # 5 . Getting the deposit and remaining credit refunded used to require dealing with a manned ticket office but it seems it 's now possible to do it at a ticket machine .
end question
start question
Do I need a transit visa going through the US ?
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
Unlike many other countries , US airports do not have any form of physical immigration controls when you are departing the country on an international flight . In fact , in most airports there is n't even a concept of an " International " terminal/gate , with the same gates frequently being used for international flights and domestic flights . As a result of this they ca n't enforce the concept of a ' transit ' passenger - once you 're in the departure area , even if you got there on the pretext of catching another international flight out of the country a few hours later , there 's nothing to stop you boarding a different domestic flight , or even simply walking out of the airport ! This means that ALL passengers arriving on international flights in the US must have the legal right to enter the US ; i.e , you must either be a US citizen/green card holder , be from a country that is a part of the US Visa Waiver Program and have a valid <URL> , or have a US Visa . If you require a Visa then there is a <URL> available which is normally a little easier to obtain than a normal visa , but you 'll still need to go through the full visa application process , including showing proof that you intend to leave the US ( almost ) immediately .
Most of Europe is in the <URL> treaty area . The UK is n't . You would need a Schengen tourist visa for sightseeing . And a transit visa is n't sufficient for a longer stay in the UK , either .
I am a business traveller from Britain , so I have never had to actually apply for a UK Visa , but my experience of similar situations says to me that you should n't refer to this as an interview but a ' meeting ' . During your visit you wo n't be being paid in the UK so you are n't a threat . Normally I arrive in a country as a ' general visitor ' because I am just ' meeting ' not ' working ' . You should also carry a printed version of the invitation to interview , contact details of the person you are visiting , exact details of where you are staying and preferably some means of showing that you are n't going to stay beyond . Part of proof is either showing that you have commitments back home ( e.g. already have a job , property lease or mortgage ) and that you have enough money to survive on ( have a recent bank statement showing you have money ) . Also make sure you have your return tickets and arrangements clear so they know you plan to return .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
Yes , you can leave the station . The period of validity is said to be two days on their official embassy sites in both the US and <URL> , so you should be okay leaving the next day . <URL>
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
Playa del Carmen has a great location - about mid-way between Cancun and Tulum - both big tourist destination . Though , it can hold it 's own ... We were there for a wedding recently , and ca n't wait to go back . Here 's a list of things we enjoyed and highly recommend - The Beach at Playa Del Carmen - one of the best , and not as crowded or commercial as those in Cancun and Tulum . Tulum - The beach , the ruins ( if you are into the Mayan/Aztec culture ) , The Mezzanine restaurant has THE most spectacular views you will ever see . The Coba ruins - not sure I 'd go there again - a long drive , and Tulum and Chichen have more historic sites Chichen Itza ruins - An even longer drive , but worth it , if it 's the only site you will see . Diving into one of the many Cenotes , if you enjoy snorkeling If you have young travelers , they 'll love the " dolphin adventures " With regards to safety , a lot has been made out about the drug wars . We found it extremely safe , with no issues . Just exercise common sense - do n't venture out needlessly after hours . Eat hot food from established restaurants . If you plan on shopping at the city , make sure you are well aware of the exchange rate . We bought some art pieces , which we negotiated in US$ , only to be charged in Pesos . Needless to say , on coming back we realized the exchange rate was ridiculous .
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
I have n't been able to find anything on the South Africa site , but the South African embassy in Australia has <URL> : Transit Visa Requirements Visa restricted passport holders who want to transit South Africa to any one of South Africa 's neighbouring countries , MUST apply for a transit visa . The neighbouring countries are Botswana , Lesotho , Mozambique , Namibia , Swaziland and Zimbabwe . Passport holders who want to transit a South African port of entry enroute to any other country , may do so without the need to apply for a transit visa . I found the same statement on a South African Airlines website .
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
If you wish to transit thru the Netherlands as an Iranian Citizen , you will generally need a transit visa . This is clearly stated on the <URL> website and is shown in this <URL> from the same as well . There are some exceptions <URL> to this rule even though the <URL> do not state them very clearly , one of these exceptions <URL> would be the Long Stay Type 'D ' visa that you hold for Ireland . The exception should be perfectly valid in your case and many sources verify this as well . Note , considering the case of using the two flights ( which I beleive would be on different reservations ) you can obviously do it , but if your luggage is not checked in thru and thru , you will have to collect and re-check in your luggage which would require you to pass thru border control and you will need a visa in order to do so ( a Proper Short Stay Schengen Visa ) . If you can have your luggage checked in thru , there should n't be much else to take care of beside the Ukraine side of things , the Netherlands should be alright .
The must-see places in Belgium are the big cities , like <URL> , <URL> and <URL> . Okay , you could also add <URL> to that list . But do n't go to Bruges without going to Ghent . The latter has a real life with real persons , not only tourists . And it has a nice <URL> . If you want more specific advice , here are 10 interesting things do to and places to visit . If you come to Belgium via Roosendaal , and you want to continue to Luxembourg , all these places are more or less along the road . A canal cruise in Ghent is interesting and gives you a nice perspective of the city . The <URL> are part of the UNESCO world heritage . Why not visiting the one in <URL> ? In <URL> , climb up the tower of <URL> and see the carillon at work . If you go to the capital of the European Union , visit the <URL> . Belgium has an important colonial history . A visit to the <URL> is very instructive . It is located in Tervuren , on the outskirts of Brussels . While in Brussels , sample Belgian beer at <URL> or <URL> . Belgium is not only about chocolate and beer . When driving from Brussels to Luxembourg , visit the <URL> in <URL> ( + - 30 kilometers from Brussels ) . The <URL> is not far from Brussels . If you like caves , stop in <URL> , on your way to Luxembourg . It 's not a big detour . The <URL> , home of one of the world 's best beers is located in the southeast of the country , not too far from Luxembourg .
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
According to <URL> , If you are a citizen of a country that participates in the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and you enter the U.S. by land from Mexico or Canada , you are only required to complete the paper I-94W form at the land border crossing . ESTA is currently required for air and cruise ship travel only . Note : VWP citizens do not need an ESTA to travel on the ferries between Vancouver and Victoria , BC and Washington state . They are treated as a land border port .
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
end question
start question
How much would it cost to take a train from Krakow to Prague , Prague to Munich , Munich to Hamburg , and Hamburg to Warsaw ?
You may be able to make a <URL> work for you . <URL> <URL> eg <URL> Eureka ! - There are <URL> allowing 3 or 4 or 5 countries of your pecification . These were not shown in the general menu . <URL> PDF download . Large and impressive . Regional Passes : These are usually 2 country passes allowing N days of travel within an overall period . Adding the extra country may make individual pricing cheaper . Austria-Croatia-Slovenia Austria-Czech Republic Austria-Germany Austria-Hungary Austria-Switzerland Benelux-France Benelux-Germany Croatia-Slovenia-Hungary Czech Republic-Germany Denmark-Germany Denmark-Sweden Finland-Sweden France-Germany France-Italy France-Spain France-Switzerland Germany-Poland Germany-Switzerland Greece-Italy Hungary-Romania Italy-Spain Norway-Sweden Portugal-Spain Scandinavia
If you are not going far out of the city , you only need a ticket for the tariff zone " Großbereich Hamburg " which covers the white and blue areas on the <URL> . This tariff zone also covers the airport and the trip between the airport and the city centre . On Friday , you could either buy a single-trip ticket from the airport to the city centre for 3,20 $ or if you plan further trips later in the evening , a day ticket ( 9-Uhr-Tageskarte ) for 6,20 $ may come cheaper . On Saturdays , Sundays and public holidays , the 9-Uhr-Tageskarte is valid all day . Single fare tickets within the city centre are 1,50 $ , 2,20 $ or 3,20 $ depending on the distance , so unless you only plan one or two trips with public transport , the day ticket comes cheaper . A further option is the 3-day <URL> for 25,50 $ . In addition to free public transport within the " Großbereich Hamburg " , you get discounts on the tickets to several tourist attractions like museums and sightseeings and discounts on theatre or cinema tickets or in restaurants and cafés . You should check the online benefits list and see if there is anything interesting and if it 's worth the 6,90 $ extra compared to three day tickets for the public transport . You should however avoid buying the " Hamburg CARD " online , since you would have to pick it up at the tourist information at the central railway station ( and therefore need an additional ticket to get there from the airport ) . Instead , the " Hamburg CARD " should also be available at the HVV ticket machines at the airport , so that you can buy it there directly .
Apparently OASTH has added a direct line from Macedonia Airport to the Chalkidiki KTEL . The line 's number is 79A , and it 's non stop . I 'm not sure if the line is only for the summer , it might make sense to send OASTH an email and verify the line will be in service when you plan to arrive in Thessaloniki . Getting from Thessaloniki to Vourvourou with public transportation is ... not a very good idea , the first part of the trip alone is complicated enough . You 'll need to get from the airport to the <URL> 1 station , and that 's a small adventure in itself . OASTH2 does n't have offer a straight route , you 'll need to change busses , and the route their <URL> suggests is surprisingly bad . You 'll have to go about 15Km in the wrong direction , passing through the city 's centre3 , to reach the central KTEL station and then either get a KTEL bus for Chalkidiki , or get an OASTH bus for the Chalkidiki KTEL station . The amazing thing is that the Chalkidiki KTEL station is very close to the airport , they are both at the side of Thessaloniki facing Chalkidiki , while the central KTEL station is at the opposite site . There might be another option , changing busses at the IKEA bus station , but I have absolutely no idea how frequent buses running the two routes ( airport - IKEA and IKEA - Chalkidiki KTEL station ) are , and even if this route is an option you 'll probably have to wait for a while before changing buses . Getting a taxi from the airport is the more sensible choice , it 's a 20 - 25 minute drive and it will cost you about 15-20 $ ( educated guess , and I 'm including the extra charge for your baggages ) . Once you reach the Chalkidiki KTEL station , you are looking for the next bus to <URL> . There are buses going straight to Sithonia , but depending on the then schedule it might make more sense to take the <URL> bus to Nea Moudania , and then change for Sithonia . That 's not something to worry about , all you need to do is mention that you want to reach Vourvourou when buying your ticket , they 'll let you know what the better option is . KTEL routes are pretty regular and run on time , the buses are all air conditioned and generally clean , and the current fare for Ag . Nikolaos is 11.60 $ . It might be a couple of euros more for Vourvourou . Finding a rental car in Vourvourou is not impossible , but it 's certainly not easy . The settlement is a bit scattered and if you have n't made arrangements prior to getting there , you might find yourself without a car , there are a couple of car rental services but they might not even be open in May . If you do n't have the option of making prior arrangements then ... your best bet would be Nea Moudania or Nikiti , the two more populous villages of Chalkidiki . The better option depends on how much of Chalkidiki you want to explore , if you only want to explore Sithonia , then Nikiti would be the better option , but if you also want to explore Kassandra , then both options are valid and you might get better prices at Nea Moudania . Also buses from Thessaloniki to Nea Moudania are far more frequent than to other Chalkidiki destinations . IMHO , the optimal route would be : Airport to Chalkidiki KTEL station via taxi , Chalkidiki KTEL station to Nea Moudania via KTEL bus , Nea Moudania to Vourvourou by car . Some general tips : Routine checks by traffic police are frequent in Chalkidiki , you should have your passport with you . Be very careful when driving in Kassandra and Sithonia , there are some low visibility turns that are quite dangerous . Greek drivers are a bit antagonistic , and from my experience Chalkidiki drivers are the worst . If someone tries to overtake you , just let them . 1 Intercity public transport bus service . 2 Thessaloniki urban transport organization . 3 And if we are talking middle of the day , the traffic will be horrible .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
First of all , both Hamar and Lillehammer are located at the Lake Mjøsa , so there will be no net elevation change along the way . The pilgrim 's path does not follow the shore though , so there are some light to moderate inclines along the way , but always accompanied with following descents . Except from telling you that , noone here will be able to tell you which pace you prefer or can manage . Even being less than in ' decent shape ' , hiking 25-30km a day should IMHO be easily feasible in such light terrain . The <URL> of the pilgrim 's road suggests that you use four days ,
EDITED : I ca n't delete this one as it has been accepted but a newer answer has more details , be sure to check it out ! I saw a journey from Seattle to Pusan in 19 days and from Vancouver to Pusan in 14 days so that should give you a ballpark figure for the time it takes to cross the Pacific ocean nowadays ( albeit in the other direction ) . Here are a few specific trips in the direction you asked about : <URL> in 17 days . <URL> through the Panama canal in 26 days . Both of these start from China because all the ships I could find either go to China before returning to the US and/or do not allow passengers to embark ( but only to disembark ) in South Korea . I do n't know whether that 's a general rule , you would have to contact an agent specialising in this to find out .
I have been to Prague over a weekend once so here are my suggestions based on that trip . I am sure there are much more to consider . Hradčany castle on the left bank of Vltava is impressive and the area around it worth a stroll . A bit to the south is a park on a hill reachable with a funicular . At the top is an old mirror house . The old town is really nice to just wander around in Charles Bridge ( Karlův most ) is truly an awesome piece worth visiting both in daylight and with a mystical vibe in the night The old jewish cemetery may not be fun but truly amazing and interesting . And do n't forget to sample their excellent beer with accompanying knödel . Photos : <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
So far as I 'm aware , it is n't currently possible . <URL> . I 've heard from a couple of different people that permits to Tibet for foreigners are currently closed though , so you 'd probably do just as well to call an agency ( the big places all have English speaking staff as well ) and see what the say . It 's hard to find concrete information on these kinds of things , but the agencies are usually more up to date . Hope that helps . Good luck with your travels .
To have an idea of the prices you can go to the <URL> ! And when I read the menu web page , it tells the " chef 's recommended course " is worth 30,000 yen , which is around 300 euros .
If I understand the information from <URL> correctly : Each incoming passenger can bring 500,000 IRR in local currency and an unlimited amount of foreign currency . Each outgoing passenger can bring 500,000 IRR in local currency and $ 5,000 USD or equivalent in foreign currency . Since 500,000 rials is only about $ 20 USD , you will need to bring enough foreign cash to cover the costs for the entire stay . Due to the US trade embargo on Iran , it is neither possible to use foreign credit or debit cards for cash withdrawals or payments nor to cash traveler 's cheques . It is not quite clear if it is better to bring euros or US dollars . At least in larger cities , it should be possible to exchange both currencies without much hassle in official exchange offices or in a bank . A friend of mine visited Iran last year and said that some shops ( if they accepted foreign currency at all ) only accepted either euros or dollars . <URL> writes however , that the government encourages banks to " turn away " from the US dollar , so that it might be preferred to bring euros instead . Also consider that the highest value Iranian banknote ( 100,000 rials ) is only worth about $ 4 USD . If you are travelling outside the regular tourist routes , it might be advisable to exchange enough local currency to cope , even if you do n't find an exchange office for a few days . So be prepared to carry quite a few bank notes around .
@blackbird57 's answer is correct but refers to a <URL> instead of relevant <URL> on the website of the European Commission : An airport transit visa ( ATV ) authorises you to pass through the international transit zone at an airport located on the territory of the Schengen State and to await a connecting flight to a non-Schengen country . The ATV does not allow you to enter the Schengen territory ( to stay at a hotel or to take an onwards flight to another Schengen State , for example ) . that 's crystal clear . I was struggling with finding a good document to show that Type A means Airport Transit Visa but I found it in the <URL> itself : ' TYPE OF VISA ' heading : In order to facilitate matters for the control authorities , this heading specifies the type of visa using the letters A , C and D as follows : A : airport transit visa ( as defined in Article 2 ( 5 ) of this Regulation )
Passenger transport between the Kraków bus station and the John Paul II Airport in Balice runs via a dedicated railway line on the route Balice Airport - Main Station ( departures approximately every half-hour , travel time 15 min ) or by bus line no. 292 ( travel time approx . 40 min ) <URL> This train calls Balice Ekspres . But since 1st February 2014 it is not worked because of modernisation railways . So the best way is take a bus 292 or taxy . There you can find timetable of 292 bus from T1 terminal of Krakow airport : <URL>
Yes , there is , and yes , airlines do have a group discount . This depends on a lot of factors however . I know dive resorts who charter one whole airplane every 5 days since they change the complete occupancy of their quite remote resort each time . You will never know until you ask though since the availability of open seats in regular airplanes is a main driving factor for the price .
Prague is safe , I would say to the European standards . You really do n't get people coming to you with a knife and wanting your money , certainly not in touristic areas and not during the day ( a bit more to this later ) . So , most theft comes from people not being careful enough . The standard rules apply that nothing valuable has to be accessible : no wallets in pockets , no valuables in handbags , no loosely carried cameras etc. . Also , be careful about your cellphone . If you want some money accessible easily for convenience , have change and maybe two notes in a pocket ; this would n't be much a loss if stolen . So , either wear a backpack with a pocket not accessible from outside ( and also not easily accessible through cutting ) or use a money belt . Common places for theft are the Charles Bridge , in front of the Astronomical Clock , places with seasonal street markets , and especially the underground and trams . Second type of theft is through people offering something on the street ( could be jewellery , drugs , sex services , money exchange , ... ) . I recommend not to interact with these much , simply say a firm " I do n't need anything , thanks , " and ignore them from that point , avoiding any further contact . Things get slightly different at night , but only in some places . Most importantly , the top of the Wenceslas Square and the adjacent street Ve Smečkách , the park in front of the Main Railway Station ( " the Sherwood " ) and quarters Holešovice , Karlín , Žižkov . You do n't need to go there at night , so do not . ( Not that someone would kill you , but local people have some interesting stories about these places . )
If you want to get from Wrocław to Warsaw quickly , the fastest ( 3h40 ) option is the EIP ( Express Intercity Premium ) train . It costs ~ 14EUR if you book ~ 2-3 weeks in advance , see <URL> for journey planner and tickets . If you 're buying on the day of the journey , the price rises to ~ 35EUR , but you should still be able to get a seat . Slower trains ( " TLK " , 6-7h journey time ) are cheaper than EIP if you 're booking just before departure . There is a relatively fast ( 4h50 ) coach service , <URL> . It will cost you ~ 10EUR ( unless you book on the day when they release cheap tickets , similarly to cheap airlines ) . You have to reserve your seat , but you do n't have to do it long time in advance . It is a popular route so even if you turn up on the coach ( PKS ) or train ( PKP ) station , you should be able to get a ticket for 10-15EUR for a departure within the next two hours or so .
Here are <URL> that you mentioned . Okay , there are different kinds of accommodation in India and not every place is the same . If you are thinking of going to aforementioned hotel , you most likely wo n't be able to get the price down by haggling , only if you have a discount card or something . Besides , for such a hotel , the price seems pretty fair considering you 're traveling there in November which is considered high season . Also , as Paola mentioned , it 's kinda hard to haggle through electronic media ( not that it ca n't be done ) . On the other hand , if you do want to haggle , choose guesthouses . There are budget ones , that you probably wo n't like ( since you chose that hotel ) , mid-range guesthouses and premium , heritage guesthouses ( that have a five-star-hotel price range ) . In budget ones you can easily get a discount if you do n't mind using some tricks mentioned in the answer to the <URL> . I even got price down from 450 rupees to only 300 rupees and I stayed there just for three nights . You usually wo n't be able to get the price down too much if you plan on staying for a short amount of time . But if you have an itinerary that gets you back to the same city , try and explain that to the manager and tell them that you 'll be staying there again if he gets the price down ; be creative . For mid-range guesthouses , you can usually get a bargain if they have a couple of rooms available . If not , you 'll either have to pay the full price or get a discount from 1500 to 1400 rupees per night . You 'd have to be pretty good with haggling to get a better deal . And I believe that I do n't have to explain that there is no haggling in heritage guesthouses . If you had to haggle , you would n't be staying at such a place . The better the accommodation is ( and more expensive ) , the lesser is the chance to haggle . But you can always try and ask about it and see where it takes you . ( One more thing , not really relevant , but once I managed to get a huge ( and I do mean huge ) discount in the <URL> in Jodhpur just by explaining my situation , asking for a deal and by having luck on my side that time . )
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
Although they say <URL> , when I did it , it only took a couple of weeks after submitting my application . At that point I had to make an appointment to go down to the airport for an interview . I was able to find an appointment date easily . The process at the airport took about half an hour and then I was good to go right away .
It 's a holiday shopping weekend , so you should expect traffic in any city concentrated around shopping areas such as malls , as well as heavier traffic on arterial roads . And Manhattan of course will be Manhattan , but you wo n't be there long . If you <URL> it will advise you to take the Holland Tunnel out of the city , which ought to be light traffic at that time of the week , and direct you onto I-80 west . This gets you out of the urban areas very quickly . Later you will cross into Canada at the Lewiston-Queenston Bridge , downstream of Niagara Falls , which will not have quite as much tourist traffic as the Rainbow Bridge crossing . Expect your wait to not be all that long there ; <URL> for the Sunday night after Thanksgiving are around 45 minutes at peak hour ( 6 pm to 7 pm ) , but you should arrive a couple of hours ahead of this . And remember to bring cash for the toll . The remainder of the trip is rural freeway and you should not see any significant traffic , barring accidents , which is quite possible if there is more snowfall ( though most of the roads are clear right now ) . It seems some snowfall is predicted for the Syracuse area so you might want to take Google 's alternate suggested route to bypass most of it . That route uses the Peace Bridge though . You may want to check <URL> when you get to Buffalo to decide where you want to cross . So , call it about eight hours , plus border wait , plus however long you stop for food , gas and other necessities . Assuming an hour for food and gas , 45 minutes at the border , and 15 minutes to get out of Manhattan , a ten hour trip .
end question
start question
Do airliners tend to arrive earlier then announced lately ?
Airlines when making schedules they take into account extra time for push back , taxi out , taxiing , taxi in and parking . The block time you see at the ticket is the time of the flight plus these things , while the actual flying time which you hear during the welcome announcement in the aircraft is purely the flying time . In addition to that , airports are enhancing a lot in the past few years along with the airlines . Boarding times are much much less now , self check in and online check in made things much quicker as well , giving airlines more slots and less manpower required for the same job , wide bodied airplanes used to take 45 minutes for boarding , now you see them finish in ~ 25 minutes , once boarding is done plane will take off ! This is added to the saved time . Also parking the plane itself is much more easier for pilots now , everything is done almost automatically , no need for marshallers ( the guys that hold lights and guide planes ) to guide the plane to the right spot , there are automated lights now and systems to help planes . Bottom line , many factors have enhanced a lot while methods used to calculate times for flights have not , this made things seem faster . Finally , there are serious penalties from airports and IATA itself for delays , airlines are getting better in avoiding them .
Think about what your luggage goes through from the time you check it until you get it back . It travels on automatic conveyor belts . In many situations , it must be shunted from one conveyor belt to another . This is done by machines , not humans . The machines can not see the " fragile " tag . It is moved from conveyor-belt to dolly by a human . The human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . It is packed in the cargo hold by humans . Depending on the orientation of the item , the human may , or may not , notice the " fragile " tag . When they pack it in the cargo hold , they may put other bags on top of it . It spends some time outside , exposed to the elements . No matter how many fragile tags you put on , there will come a point where your suitcase must make its way up the conveyor belt into the aircraft . If it is raining , snowing , cold , or hot , it will be exposed to the elements at this point . It spills out of an automatic conveyor line onto a rotating baggage carousel . As it rotates on the carousel , other bags may fall on top of it . Other passengers may pick it up , thinking it 's their bag , and handle it . When they discover it 's not theirs , they may , or may not , honor the " Fragile " sticker . Oh , and let 's not forget : It flies through the air , at 40,000 feet , at 600 miles per hour . It may encounter bad weather or turbulence , causing intensive shaking of the contents for a prolonged period of time . When all is said and done , it 's a miracle anything gets anywhere unscathed , " fragile " sticker notwithstanding .
Some Stats I ran some stats for you ( from our data on Hostelz.com , a travel website that I represent ) and currently 97 % of hostels provide free bedsheets , and the remaining 3 % charge a fee . Towels are a different matter . Currently 50.5 % of hostels include free towels , 46.9 % charge a fee , and 2.6 % do n't offer towels at all . The History Over the long term , the trend is actually moving in the opposite direction of what you may think it is . In the past hostels traditionally did n't provide bedsheets or towels at all . When staying in hostels , you were expected to bring your own " sleepsheet " ( usually made from two bedsheets sewn together ) . As recently as the early 2000s , guidebooks recommended always having your sleepsheet when staying in hostels because most hostels charged extra if you did n't bring your own sheets , and some did n't offer sheets at all . Over the past couple decades , hostels have been more and more offering amenities similar to what you would expect from hotels ( and they 've been raising their rates as well ) . Some may still charge for sheets because they traditionally have always done that , but some hostels may be just doing it as a way to profit from added fees ( the Ryanair business model ) . How to Find Out To answer your question about how to find out ahead of time which hostels charge for sheets or towels , most of the hostels ' own websites do n't include that info from what I 've seen . If you 're looking on Hostelz.com , we list that information in the column on the left side of each listing , usually including the specific price they charge if the hostel provided that information . Other websites may list information as well ( Hostelworld for example will usually say " sheets included " if they 're free , so if you do n't see that , there may be a fee ) . Consider Bringing Your Own Personally I still always bring a sleepsheet ( or " travelsheet " ) with me anyway . I just like sleeping in my own familiar sheets . You could bring a simple bedsheet with you , or if you do n't mind spending some money , you can get a really nice <URL> . Silk is ideal because it 's super lightweight , compacts to a very small size , durable , breathable , and super comfortable .
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
It 'll be up to the hotel and sometimes , the discretion of the person on the front desk . Sure , sometimes your name is enough . Sometimes showing the app is enough ( and should be ) . But there 's that small chance you 'll get that one clerk who wants everything done by the book and insists on seeing your printed reservation . So if you want to avoid hassles , you 'll print it out and bring it along .
It depends . If your ticket comes with a seat reservation ( <URL> ) then you do not need to stamp your ticket : just board the train . Shorter range tickets with no seat reservation , on the other hand , must be stamped . Your ticket probably reads <URL> somewhere at the top . Trenitalia personnel typically does n't cut tourists much slack and if " busted " you will be forced to buy a ticket on board with a surcharge . I 've seen plenty of tourists fall for this on the Milan-Bergamo line and it saddens me . If this happens , keep in mind that you 're not being fined . The ticket you bought is still valid ; you 're just buying a new one . You can use that ticket for your return trip ( just make sure you do stamp it next time ! ) Also , try and be honest and avoid getting into arguments . Ticket checkers have no qualms with waking people up and locking yourself up in the bathroom does not really work ( it 's no excuse for not slipping the ticket below the door ) . They can also actually fine you for quite a lot more money than just buying a new ticket with the surcharge ( although I 've never witnessed things degenerate to this level ) , followed by forcing you to step off the train wherever it stops next . Yeah , not fun . When in doubt , stamp the ticket . If it 's a paper ticket , use <URL> typically found at the station entrance ( by ticket sales ) or at the lower end of the stairways up to the tracks . If it 's a magnetic ticket ( ? ) then use the blue machines instead . If all the stamping machines should be broken , or if you just did n't have the time to stamp your ticket , or if you are iffy about the quality of the stamping ( maybe it did n't print very well ? ) what Trenitalia and Trenord personnel have told me to do is to board the train at the head and tell the ticket collector when ( if ) he comes . He should sign off the ticket with no surcharge . I do n't know if this is something official or just an informal convention , but I know it 's worked for me in the past .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
You need to carry with you proof of your stay ( and your return ) , and that you 'll have enough funds to cover your trip ; as you may get asked for it . For example , the immigration officer might ask for : Your return ticket . Where you are staying ? How long do you plan on staying ? How you plan on supporting yourself ? What is the purpose of your trip ? Keep in mind that a visa is not a guarantee of entry , just permission to go knock on the door . So be prepared with documents that support your intended purpose of stay .
For a standardized American breakfast : McDonald 's , Im Tal 6 ( near Marienplatz ) opens at 6:00 ; Hauptbahnhof ( downstairs near S-Bahn ) open 24/7 . Burger King , twice at Hauptbahnhof , open 24/7 . Starbucks , Hauptbahnhof , opens at 3:30 .
Actually there 's a third , rarer option . But it 's the option I 'm on currently . If your trip is going to be longer than 30 days , you ca n't use a tourist visa - as that 's the maximum length , and you ca n't extend it . You can , however , apply for a business visa and are perfectly entitled to say it 's for tourism . I got a letter of support from my company ( despite it saying I 'm just going as a tourist ) and worked with visatorussia.com to make sure I had all the details , and voila , a 3 month double-entry Russian Business Visa ! It did cause the border guy a bit of confusion , but a quick phone call and he was quite happy with it . Again , you need a letter of invite ( visatorussia can help with that ) , and you specify a rough itinerary ( I just said the 5 major cities I hope to visit ) but these do not go on your visa , nor are you required to stick to it . However , as mentioned - if you 're in any place for more than a few days you are required to register with your hotel or place of abode . Again , visatorussia will help explain all of that . Good luck !
I am most familiar with the US Embassy in Delhi , India , since I was there for an extended period of time ( several months ) . You can always visit the website for the US Embassy wherever you are traveling ; they post a <URL> for American citizens . To summarize some of the big ones , US Embassies will help American citizens with the following : Obtaining vital records ( birth certificates , Social Security cards ) Replacing a lost or stolen passport or renewing a passport Arrest , abduction , or imprisonment of an American citizen Emergency medical evacuation or disposition of remains if an American citizen dies abroad Birth of a child , marriage , or divorce abroad ( getting the proper paperwork filled out ) Notarizing forms Filing US taxes abroad They also provide an immense array of resources : the websites and physical embassy locations usually have information ranging from disaster preparedness / ( historical ) likelihood of natural disasters to lists of medical offices in their consular areas to international driving laws . I believe most of them have some sort of " tips for Americans living in [ that location ] " section , too , with other miscellaneous information . US Embassies sometimes are a great cultural resource , too . ( I ca n't say this applies everywhere , but it 's true in India . ) In Delhi there was the American Center , which has a library and hosts music and dance performances , lectures , literary readings , etc. . Additionally , it 's a good idea to <URL> when you are traveling - particularly if you 're traveling to a somewhat dangerous area . If you register , you can provide them with a cell phone number where the Embassy will text you security and travel information . In the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster , they have a record of whether you were in the country , where you were staying , and how to contact you . And your family / friends back home in the US can call the Embassy for help or information , too . The US State Department has <URL> about what it can and can not do for American citizens abroad in emergency situations , particularly . Those are the big things that I know of that appear to be true for most US Embassies , but I would always check out the website of whatever locale is relevant to you if you want specific , concrete information .
Assuming that Adria Airways closes boarding as usual 20-30 minutes prior to departure and you do check-in in advance , you have 45-55 minutes left for security clearance and finding the gate , what usually is more than enough time at Frankfurt Airport . You 'd also be fine if the train is 10 or 15 minutes delayed .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
Airlines when making schedules they take into account extra time for push back , taxi out , taxiing , taxi in and parking . The block time you see at the ticket is the time of the flight plus these things , while the actual flying time which you hear during the welcome announcement in the aircraft is purely the flying time . In addition to that , airports are enhancing a lot in the past few years along with the airlines . Boarding times are much much less now , self check in and online check in made things much quicker as well , giving airlines more slots and less manpower required for the same job , wide bodied airplanes used to take 45 minutes for boarding , now you see them finish in ~ 25 minutes , once boarding is done plane will take off ! This is added to the saved time . Also parking the plane itself is much more easier for pilots now , everything is done almost automatically , no need for marshallers ( the guys that hold lights and guide planes ) to guide the plane to the right spot , there are automated lights now and systems to help planes . Bottom line , many factors have enhanced a lot while methods used to calculate times for flights have not , this made things seem faster . Finally , there are serious penalties from airports and IATA itself for delays , airlines are getting better in avoiding them .
I 'm surprised that nobody mentioned the infamous " flip them around " technique . Arguably you can use one pair of boxers for four days if you flip them inside out and front to back . Indeed boxers , and tighty-whities , have two degrees of freedom which produce four possible rotations . This does n't really work with thongs due to the difference in surface area between front and back . Just for kicks <URL> . For added comfort you should of course think of letting them dry as much as possible , or even washing them , since exercising in them inevitably means sweating in them . For completeness sake note that if you do n't wash your sweaty boxers and rotate them four times you 'll probably stink . A lot .
If you are talking about the paper card that you filled out when you landed , then no . There is no need to return this . You can throw it away . There will be no issue on the next trip to Hong Kong .
Of course you can , at least you can try . Hostels are small businesses that do n't work by strict rules . And why should they not take your reservation on the same day ? There is always the chance that they are full , but then you stay somewhere else and come back the next day if you really want to stay at that place . I think in 20 months in Latin America , I called ahead twice , in both cases these were popular hostels in remote locations with nothing else nearby ( both not in Peru ) . In all other cases I just walked in ( and sometimes out again after seeing the place ) . If you have a phone , it ca n't hurt to check their availability before taking a bus or taxi half-way through a city .
Well , if you want to know something about culture of other country , why not to try solving general problems in that country ? For example : Try to buy food in a supermarket . Or even in a small shop near the center . Try to go and use a barber . Try to find a battery for your cell-phone Try to ask people where is the best cafe they know ( this is a fantastic question , for example , for the Italians ) Try to buy general goods , like socks or t-shirt Try to get <URL> for you and communicate with them who accept you in their home . Walk a lot and use public transportation instead of prepackaged tours ( from <URL> ) Get cash from the ATM - and go into places that do n't have the Visa/MasterCard/AmeEx logos on the door ( from <URL> ) Language barrier is not the problem - if you are polite and smile , people will help you . But never go deep into the city you do n't really know about . Start with 500m away from your hotel .
Indian nationals do not require a visa to enter Nepal . As per the Nepalese immigration , Indian nationals traveling to Nepal must posses any one of the following documents : Passport . Driving License with photo . Photo Identity card issued by a Government Agency . Ration Card with Photo . Election Commission Card with Photo . Identity Card issued by Embassy of India in Kathmandu . Identity Card with photo issued by sub-divisional magistrate or any other officials above his rank . Also , please check with your nearest travel agents for documents required by the Indian Immigration for Indians traveling to Nepal . Source : <URL>
Ryanair flies to Oslo and Haugesund . From there it is still 1500 , respectively 2000 kilometres to Tromsø . Berlin to Oslo is 2000 kilometres as the crow flies and 2700 over land . The fast option is flying . Just have a look at the usual search engines to learn about the options . The train is probably not much cheaper . Only much slower . You will have to travel through Hamburg , Copenhagen , Stockholm and Narvik . The last leg will be by bus . Train schedules can be found via the <URL> . However , as you have a railpass it becomes cheaper . You only have to pay the reservation fees for the X2000 in Sweden , the extras for the sleepers and the bus for the final leg . The whole trip will last about 40 hours . You may find some useful additional information on <URL> .
end question
start question
Applying for Schengen Visa in Seattle ?
You have to apply for the Schengen visa at either the consulate of the country you plan to stay the longest at , or if staying at all countries equally , at the port of entry . For the Italian consulate in San Francisco , there is an option to mail your ' verified ' documents instead of appearing for the interview . YOU MUST APPEAR IN PERSON to apply for a VISA or you may submit your application to the Honorary Consul for a prescreening and then mail it to the Consulate General . <URL> If you have any further questions , you could email them . They respond within a day usually in my experience . I could not find any similar option in the Greece consulate in San Francisco . <URL>
Travelling internationally without any travel document is between very difficult and impossible depending on the details . If you need to leave the Schengen area and re-enter , you definitely need a passport . You would in all likelihood be refused boarding by the airline or blocked from leaving the Schengen area by the border guards . If you are travelling within the Schengen area and have a residence card , it might still be possible in practice even if it 's not explicitly allowed . If you have nothing at all , you would probably still be able to physically cross the border but could get in serious trouble if you are found in another country with no document establishing your status . Even travelling in France is not without risk . Technically , you are supposed <URL> ( i.e. show your visa ) at any time if the police asks . If you do n't have your passport on you , they could detain you for some time to check your status . Obviously , the requirement to surrender your passport for a visa application puts you in an awkward situation but there is no easy way around that .
Refusals ( and issued visa ) are recorded in a database called the Visa Information System , <URL> . Hungary will know about it but is free to make its decision independently , they do n't have to ask Poland for permission and there is no reason for you to apply there first . If you change your passport before it expires , not only will they still know that you were refused a visa ( based on your name and date/place of birth or , possibly , your biometrics ) but they will also notice you tried some deception tactics and that could weigh heavily against you . Also , they will obviously know about the grounds for the refusal . Failure to adequately document your financial means for example would not be too bad if you remedied the situation in the meantime . But fraud would be very bad , no matter what you do afterwards . For completeness , note that there is also another database called the Schengen Information System with completely different rules ( you wo n't end up in there merely because an application was refused but only for more serious violations ) . If there is a notice about you in the SIS , you have to contact the country that put a notice in the database and appeal the ban to ( have a chance to ) get a visa . A visa application can not override such a ban and , legally speaking , another country can , at most , issue a " limited territorial validity " visa but not a Schengen visa ( and , mostly , they will issue nothing , it 's very easy for them : just a box to check without any further verification or need to justify anything ) . Entries in the SIS have various automatic expiration delays but I think that a country can always reactivate an entry to keep it in the database as long as they wish , based on their national rules .
When it comes to traveling within the Schengen area , a type D visa is equivalent to a regular residential permit . You are basically allowed to visit other Schengen countries for up to 90 days within a 6 month period . There are some caveats - you must carry your passport or equivalent travel documents , be able to document the purpose of your visit ( going on holiday should be enough ) , document your ability to finance the trip , be of no danger to national security or public health and not have been specifically expelled from the country you are traveling to . Since there is no immigration control on the borders between Schengen states , these requirements are in most cases rather theoretical . If however you should be checked , you probably save a lot of hassle if you have the required documentation handy .
The idea behind the employment letter is strong ties to your home country and steady income , and since you are not an employee this will not be required . A student ID should do . However , since you are a student you will need to prove that you can fund your trip , a good bank account statement or a letter from the sponsor will be mandatory .
If you travel Portugal - Germany - Egypt , you will stay in the Schengen area till you leave Germany , you will have an internal Schengen area flight and get out of the Schengen area when you leave Germany . If your layover is long enough you can leave the airport . For most European airports they advise not to leave the airport if your stop is less than 5 hours , but it does differ between the different airports . On the other hand , if you fly from Portugal to Egypt and then to Germany , you would have left the Schengen area when leaving Portugal and would not be allowed into Germany , as your visit would be a second entry into the Schengen area .
The document you quote is aimed at those pursuing academic qualifications . <URL> , with some restrictions . From the linked document : You can : take your 30 days study in one go or over a number of shorter periods use the time for recreational courses such as activity courses or arts and crafts courses , eg horse-riding , painting or sailing study toward a qualification if the course is at an accredited institution You ca n't : use any of your 30 days to study English at an institution without accreditation
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
You should not apply for a tourist visa , but apply for an " <URL> " instead . You ask the EuroPython to send you an invitation letter and then use that to <URL> . The <URL> should be in Italian .
There are no Schengen wide regulations on how to react on visa violations and overstays . Each member state is free to set their own penalties and reactions . Overstays are usually settled with a fine , but in severe cases , you can also be banned from entering Schengen for a period of time . I ca n't find any current rates , but in 2011 Switzerland issued fines between 200 and 650 CHF for overstaying . In this case , the Swiss immigration officer most probably did n't notice your overstay . When applying for a national visa , you must assume that the consulate will do a more thorough examination of your travel history , especially to the Schengen area , and that the overstay will be noticed and most likely cause problems . You write in a comment : It 's absolutely clear that my overstaying in 28 days is fixed in data base ... Fortunately , this is actually not the case . There is no Schengen wide database for entries and exits and even if some countries operate their own databases , the data is not complete and not suitable to track your travel history . Since currently the only trace of your overstay are the entry and exit stamps in your passport , this might actually be one of the few cases where " losing " your old passport and applying for a new one will solve your problem .
The Schengen visa application form uses " sponsor " in the following context : Cost of travelling and living during the applicant 's stay is covered : [ ] by the applicant himself/herself [ ] by a sponsor ( host , company , organization ) , please specify : - [ ] referred to in field 31 or 32 - [ ] other ( please specify ) Since you 're not paying your own costs , you should n't check " by the applicant himself/herself " , and thus whoever is actually paying should be put down as a sponsor . I would check " other " , and explain the details in words on a separate sheet . You 'll want to attach some evidence of your father 's economic situation which makes it plausible that he can and will fund your trip . Apart from that , do n't sweat it . As long as you 're actually providing clear , complete and truthful information about the circumstances of your planned trip , and it does n't look like you 're trying to hide something , they 're not going to refuse the application simply because you put the information in this field of the form rather than that .
I assume you have Schengen Visa Type ( C ) , which is valid for short stay for : Tourist Business You can use your visa as a tourist , there are no separate Schengen visas for business and tourists .
Entering through France is definitely not a requirement . Even if you had planned to enter through the Netherlands from the get go , if you are staying in France the longest , getting a French visa is what you were supposed to do . Changing your plans compared to the itinerary you submitted with your application is not completely forbidden either but it does make your situation a little bit more difficult . Depending on the details ( including whether you have used this visa or stayed in the Schengen area before ) , it could in theory raise questions . Ultimately , border guards have the power to deny entry or even cancel a visa . They would not do that merely because you enter through the " wrong " country but only if they think you got a French visa to game the system or want to do something illegal like working in the Netherlands . That 's probably the source of the stories you heard . Because of this , buying a ticket at the airport would not help as it 's not a matter of fulfilling some formal bureaucratic requirement . The question is whether border guards believe you intend to go to France , do what you claimed you would do and generally respect the rules of the Schengen area . If they do believe you , it 's OK , you do n't need a ticket . But if they do n't , it 's too late , they wo n't let themselves be swayed by your willingness to spend some money to buy a ticket on the spot ( who would n't when faced with the prospect of immediate removal ? ) . On the other hand , buying a plane or train ticket to France in advance , while not required , could be a good idea and add to your credibility if challenged . Having other documents showing you will really go to France at hand would also be useful . Same thing for a return ticket leaving from France ( if that 's what you want to do ) and , of course , a good explanation for your change of plans . But only do that if you really plan to use that ticket and do not lie at the border ; You risk getting trapped in your own lies and giving the appearance that you are trying to cheat , which would greatly increase the likelihood of a negative outcome . See also the following questions for a full review of the rules and some issues people have faced in practice : <URL> <URL> <URL>
According to <URL> you do n't need a visa to transit through ( picked Austria as a transit point ) . TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of onward tickets in transit . * Note : TWOV is not possible when arriving from a non-Schengen Member State AND departing to a Schengen Member
In general , it does not make sense to appeal for something like that . Whether an appeal is likely to succeed depends on the specifics of your situation and it 's not a good idea to discuss all this on this site . You would need help from a Greek legal professional ( which is presumably neither cheap nor easy to get from Abu Dhabi ) to get an informed opinion about this . But even if you have solid grounds for an appeal , it can take a ( very ) long time and it 's impossible to do without knowing the local language and legal system ( that 's always true but the letter you received even states as much in the last paragraph ) . Additionally , the letter also suggests that lodging an appeal by post without formally hiring a lawyer is simply not possible in Greece ( it is in other Schengen countries ) , which makes any appeal more expensive than a fresh application , even if you know Greek and feel confident drafting it yourself . So in practice you are not going to quickly get satisfaction and save your trip that way . You will only receive an answer several months from now , long after your bookings have expired and your holidays are over . At this point , there wo n't even be a valid premise for your application ( it makes no sense to issue a visa for a trip supposed to take place in the past ... ) An appeal only really makes sense if you have strong legal arguments and no hope to succeed in another application ( and of course for long-stay visas but that 's another thing entirely ) . Alternatively , you could still lodge a fresh application . Even taking the fees , documents , etc. into account it would still be much cheaper than an appeal and definitely quicker . But only do that if you think there is something you could add to make your case stronger ( detailed itinerary , bookings , etc. ) without making you look unreliable ( do n't make up a story ) , otherwise you risk getting a new refusal and damaging your credibility for the future .
No . It 's a Schengen visa , valid for the entire region , not just France . What 's more , they ca n't even track if you went to France or not , since there are no immigration controls within Schengen . All they know is the airport you enter and leave from . Of course , each time you enter Schengen , the immigration officer will most likely ask why you are visiting etc , and you will need to explain why -- but they 're only interested in whether you can afford to visit and whether you are going to return home .
No , you can not . Apart from very specific circumstances , visas must be obtained in advance from your country of usual residence .
You can enter the Schengen area from anywhere you want . A regular Schengen visa is not tied to a border point , a specific journey or limited to travel directly from the country you reside in . You can also in principle enter the Schengen area through another member state than the one that delivered the visa . Finally , you can also leave the Schengen area to go somewhere else than your country of residence or your country of origin . The only thing that really matters is that you must avoid suggesting that you might in fact want to immigrate and stay somewhere in the Schengen area illegally after the expiration of your visa . No matter what you do ( i.e. even if you never changed plans and are going directly from your country of origin to the Schengen state that issued the visa ) , the border police can always deny entry if they are not satisfied that you really plan to leave the Schengen area and they might therefore enquire about the purpose of the stay , ask where you will be staying , want to see your return ticket ( since the one you presented for your visa application has presumably been canceled ) , etc. but I do n't think coming from another country than the one in which you applied for the visa would be a big issue per se . A summary of the relevant regulation is available on the <URL> .
@blackbird57 's answer is correct but refers to a <URL> instead of relevant <URL> on the website of the European Commission : An airport transit visa ( ATV ) authorises you to pass through the international transit zone at an airport located on the territory of the Schengen State and to await a connecting flight to a non-Schengen country . The ATV does not allow you to enter the Schengen territory ( to stay at a hotel or to take an onwards flight to another Schengen State , for example ) . that 's crystal clear . I was struggling with finding a good document to show that Type A means Airport Transit Visa but I found it in the <URL> itself : ' TYPE OF VISA ' heading : In order to facilitate matters for the control authorities , this heading specifies the type of visa using the letters A , C and D as follows : A : airport transit visa ( as defined in Article 2 ( 5 ) of this Regulation )
As a general rule , it takes 15 days for the response to an application ( see <URL> ) ; and as you need to provide your travel details the consulate is aware of your deadlines - this however does not trump their internal process . You do n't get the visa after the interview , the date when you can collect the visa is given to you by the consulate or VFS . The experience that I have with Schengen is that the embassy calls you when your passport is available for collection this does n't mean that the application is approved . Do submission of papers and processing biometric confirm the start of the process for Visa ? I am perturbed about dates . The best way I can answer this is to describe the visa process : There are three steps to this process [ a ] validation of application , [ b ] collection of biometrics and [ c ] interview . Once you arrive for your appointment , the officer ( or agent , in the case of VFS ) enters the information on the paper application into an electronic system , your supporting documents verified , your passport is scanned . Next , your fingerprints are scanned to be attached as part of your application ( this should happen only on your first application , but I believe based on the nationality they scan the data each time ) . Any fees required are collected and you are given a receipt and a token/reference number that represents your application . If you are lucky enough to submit the application at the embassy , you may be interviewed at the same time ( like I was ) . This interview generally asks questions that are not on the application form itself . However , these days most foreign missions are outsourcing their processing and unfortunately these outsourced agents are not authorized to conduct interviews - which is why you have to get a separate appointment . Next , your documents , photo , passport is submitted to the visa issuing center . This may or may not be in the same country or city where you apply . For example , in Kuwait for the Netherlands ; the visa is issued from Amman , Jordan . In India , there may be a central processing station as it is a very large country . The timeline given to you of 15 days takes all this account ; and it starts from the acceptance of your documents . If you are a first timer or there is any issue with your application , it may take upto 30 days and in extra ordinary circumstances , 60 days . The good news is that the agents/officers know the typical processing times for that station and will give you a very good estimate . The first time I applied for my Schengen visa , my passport was delivered 7 days before my flight departure . The second time , it took only 10 days and I got it well in advance .
end question
start question
Navigating the layers of American hotel beds : where are you actually supposed to sleep ?
You put yourself between Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 . All the other layers on top are meant for warmth . It being summer , you may not need them all - feel free to remove any layers you do n't want , and put them on a chair or in the closet . ( Pro tip : if you want a little more air flow , untuck Sheet 2 from the mattress . ) If somehow you 're too cold , there are usually extra blankets in your closet . The staff will make the bed each day , reassembling all the layers in their original formation . You can expect that Sheets 1 and 2 were clean upon your arrival . Once upon a time , hotels would change them every day during your stay . For " environmental reasons " ( and also to save money ) , it is now more like every 3 days , but you can usually get them changed more often upon request . ( Sometimes the hotel will give you a little sign you can place on the bed to request clean sheets . ) At " extended stay " properties ( eg Residence Inn ) , they may only be changed once a week during your stay . The same policy probably applies to Sheet 3 and the duvet cover , but I am not certain ; these layers are not always present . As to the other layers , they are typically changed less often . I do n't know what the industry standard is , but you can always ask the staff if it 's important to you ( dial 0 on your room phone ) . So it would be courteous of you to try to keep them clean . You have found yourself a fancy bed . At cheaper hotels and motels , you usually just have : mattress , mattress pad , sheet 1 , sheet 2 , wool or synthetic blanket ( plain color ) , patterned quilt or bedspread .
There are many possibilities here , and there 's no definitive answer , travel pricing is complex enough just looking at flights when you start talking bundles it gets worse . First off , this is n't impossible but it 's also not always the case , depends on where you 're going , for how long and what time of year ( also what particular days , weekend/weekday ) . So I 'd just accept it , be pleased and move on . You 'd have to check the conditions on your confirmation to see if you need to stay at the hotel , but the most you 'd likely have to do is check-in / check-out nobody will check you 're actually staying in the room . So why the low price ? First you 're booking something on short-notice , generally that means higher prices . Perhaps Expedia have a deal with the airlines where they pre-buy X seats on a given route at a much lower price a long time ago . Expedia knows from experience that they can sell enough to cover the costs , the airline knows that they have some guaranteed money which is good on flights that might not otherwise sell out . The same goes for hotels . I 'm assuming the flight you 're getting is the same as one of the ones you priced separately -- i.e. Expedia has n't given you a charter flight or linked two different ends together . It may just be that Expedia gets a discount from some airline that 's not available to people booking directly . As I said , there are lots of possible reasons , if you let us know where you were going ( and where from ) it might be possible to come up with something more specific .
From your question and your comment I understand you want to stay in a town in La Alpujarra and use this town as " headquarters " to visit this area . Unfortunatelly there is no such town , due the Alpujarra is too big to go walking from any town to others . You can use the GR7 ( red line ) to go from most towns to others in La Alpujarra . Have you considered the option of walk the GR7 from Lanjaron to Nevada in two or three journeys ? If you need to stay in a town , I 'd recommend Trevelez , first because is the most attractive town in La Alpujarra and second because it has many interesting paths nearby . Also , it could be interesting the <URL> site .
The <URL> describing just this , including how to apply for travel documents if one was stateless . They note that : A stateless persons ' document issued to an adult will usually be valid for 10 years if you have permission to stay in the United Kingdom permanently ( known as ' indefinite leave to remain ' ) . If you have temporary permission to stay in the United Kingdom ( known as ' limited leave to remain ' ) , your stateless persons ' document will usually be valid for the same period as your permission to stay here , up to a maximum of five years . In addition they point out that if granted , a stateless persons ' document is normally valid for travel to all countries . Indeed , since 1954 , you 've been able to obtain a ' <URL> ' which for all intents and purpose , acts as a travel document , like a passport . Indeed , it says ' travel document ' on the front cover . This arose from the <URL> .
I found a helpful video for exactly this problem - and it 's an easy solution : just put a pillow under your midsection and your spine will be much better supported . <URL>
Taking Complimentaries Home I would say that it all boils down to how cheap you want to look , in the eyes of the hotel management . If you do n't care , and probably you should n't , then there are some things you can take with you upon check-out . Taking Consumables As a general rule I would say : you can take anything that is single-serving . For the purpose of this answer , the definition of single-serving includes anything that , if opened/used , can not be re-used by the next guest . Hence an incomplete list would include : soap bars , shampoos , sewing kits , shaving sets , shower caps , slippers , shoe buffing kits , chocolates , etc. . Most of these items are often prey of serial collectors , in particular shampoo bottles and slippers . Hotel rooms often also include branded material like pens , pencils , notepads , postcards , and the like . These can be considered as marketing material . Every time you use the hotel 's pen , for example , you will indirectly be advertising the brand . It is probably safe to assume that the hotel management will be OK with you taking such items with you when you leave . The mini-bar is a completely different story . You can safely assume that anything in the mini-bar will be chargeable . Some hotels however offer complimentary water bottles to their guests . When in doubt , ask . Recycling Plastic Toiletry Containers You could also be fighting the recycling crusade , and using your ecological struggle within to justify yourself when taking shampoo bottles . According to <URL> : I was shocked to learn that the vast majority of hotels in the US have no recycling program , meaning that untold millions of these plastic bottles end up in landfills each year . Leave Towels , Linen , and Furniture However , you can not take anything that is not single-serving . This includes towels , bathrobes , coat hangers , sheets , pillow cases , etc. . Towels and linen can be washed and re-used by other guests . Taking them would be considered stealing . You can not of course take anything that is part of the furniture , or the design of the room . <URL>
This is what the compartment should more or less look like ( <URL> ) : <URL> As you guessed , there is no changing room or something similar . A pillow and sheet like you see in the picture are provided . There is some variation , but most people will sleep in comfortable street clothes or close to that . Usually at the end of the coach there are toilets and a washstand . The washstand is probably the closest you will get to a changing room . You can use it to clean your face , to shave , brush your teeth and eventually do a quick cat wash . No full shower . That you should get somewhere else . If you decide on the cat wash try to leave the washstand as you found it instead of flooded . There might be shower facilities in major stations ( Gare d'Austerlitz in Paris has some for instance , I 'm not sure about German stations ) . If you expect smelly shoes/feet the best option is probably to air your feet and footwear before boarding the train . If you can carry some light sandals to replace your heavy hiking boots , that would be an option . Putting your smelly shoes in plastic bag and knotting it well closed will also make a huge difference . Another thing to be aware of if you want to be considerate towards the other passengers ( and it sounds you are , thank you ) is to avoid noise for people that are already sleeping when you board the train or are still sleeping when you leave the train . If you leave very early make sure that all your luggage is easily retrievable with at minimum on noise . Postpone putting on your shoes until you are outside the compartment , in the corridor . Places to store luggage are under the lower beds ( rather narrow space ) , above the door ( surprisingly large , perfect for bulky items ) and behind that little stair . Avoid putting anything behind the stair when boarding in the middle of the night because putting something there is always noisy . I often put a small bag simply next to me in the bed , but this depends largely on the size of the bag and your own size .
You put yourself between Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 . All the other layers on top are meant for warmth . It being summer , you may not need them all - feel free to remove any layers you do n't want , and put them on a chair or in the closet . ( Pro tip : if you want a little more air flow , untuck Sheet 2 from the mattress . ) If somehow you 're too cold , there are usually extra blankets in your closet . The staff will make the bed each day , reassembling all the layers in their original formation . You can expect that Sheets 1 and 2 were clean upon your arrival . Once upon a time , hotels would change them every day during your stay . For " environmental reasons " ( and also to save money ) , it is now more like every 3 days , but you can usually get them changed more often upon request . ( Sometimes the hotel will give you a little sign you can place on the bed to request clean sheets . ) At " extended stay " properties ( eg Residence Inn ) , they may only be changed once a week during your stay . The same policy probably applies to Sheet 3 and the duvet cover , but I am not certain ; these layers are not always present . As to the other layers , they are typically changed less often . I do n't know what the industry standard is , but you can always ask the staff if it 's important to you ( dial 0 on your room phone ) . So it would be courteous of you to try to keep them clean . You have found yourself a fancy bed . At cheaper hotels and motels , you usually just have : mattress , mattress pad , sheet 1 , sheet 2 , wool or synthetic blanket ( plain color ) , patterned quilt or bedspread .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
<URL> has some ideas , which I 've collected and grouped together below . It covers mainly respect , religion , clothing , and advice for women . Italy has a reputation for being warm and welcoming and Italians are uncommonly friendly and laid back , as well as very used to interacting with foreigners . If you are polite and civil you should have no problems , but do n't expect that the average Italian speaks or even understands English ( except for young people ) . Also , it is not typical in Italy for people to introduce themselves to newcomers : you will have to introduce yourself to others . It is not rude but is just not the custom . Italians greet friends with two light kisses on the cheek . Males do , too . To avoid ending up kissing on the lips note that you first move to the right ( kiss the other person on their left cheek ) and then to the left . Even if you 're merely acquaintances , this form of greeting is usual , both on arrival and departure . When groups are splitting up , expect big delays as everyone kisses everyone else . On first introduction a handshake is usual , although not necessarily the firm businesslike shake other nationalities may be used to . In general , when joining or leaving a group , you will shake hands individually with ( or kiss , depending on the level of familiarity ) each member of the group . In the South , it is considered bad luck for four people to shake hands ( two and two ) at the same time , forming a cross . You will see Italians , especially older ones , pull back from a handshake and wait to shake your hand until the other handshake is finished , to avoid this . If your cultural reserve makes you feel uncomfortable with this , do n't worry too much . The British in particular have a reputation for being reserved , so you can always play up to this expectation , and Italians will understand you do n't mean to be rude . Handshakes are also accepted greetings , and some Italians will kiss compatriots and offer their hand to the awkward Brit . To make friends , it 's a good idea to pay some compliments . Most Italians still live in their town of origin and feel far more strongly about their local area than they do about Italy in general . Tell them how beautiful their town/lake/village / church is and possibly add how much you prefer it to Rome/Milan/other Italian towns . Residents can be fonts of knowledge regarding their local monuments and history , and a few questions will often produce interesting stories . It 's important not to judge people in return by their choice of clothing . Styles do not necessarily carry the same connotations in Italy that they would in Britain or some other countries . A woman in fishnets , stilettos , miniskirt and full makeup at eight in the morning is probably just going to work in a bank . Almost all youths lounge about in skin-tight tee-shirts and casually-knotted knitwear ( and are very perplexed by the response they get when they take their sense of style and grooming to a less ' sophisticated ' climate ) . Sometimes , clothing rules are written . To visit a church or religious site you will need to cover yourself up ; no bare backs , chests , shoulders and sometimes no knees . Sometimes museums and other attractions can also be strict ; no bathing costumes , for example . If you want to visit a church or religious site it 's a good idea to take something to cover yourself up with ; for example a jumper or large scarf . Some churches supply cover-ups , such as sarongs are loaned to men with shorts so that they can modestly conceal their legs . Even where there are no written rules , it 's worth noting that bare chests and large expanses of sunburnt skin are unacceptable away from beaches or sunbathing areas , whatever the temperature is . Sexual harassment is not regarded in the same way in Italy as in English-speaking countries . The general atmosphere is pretty loose , and women should be prepared for attention . However , the tone of this ' attention ' is generally less aggressive than you may have read and seen in movies . Men may call out compliments such as ' bella ' ( beautiful ) or , if you are lucky , ' bellissima ' ( incredibly beautiful ) , as they did in the 1950s and 1960s . Bear in mind that this is still a macho country and one until recently led by a man ( Silvio Berlusconi ) who is famous for his associations with women . Men and women should therefore expect to hear people saying things that would be considered very offensive in other parts of Europe and North America . Anyway , culturally , these comments are not seen as harassment ; if you respond angrily , everyone will be very surprised . Whereas women of other nationalities may be used to telling strangers ( in no uncertain terms ) to shut up and go away , in Italy , the norm is to ignore the attention . In any case , responding in English or in imperfect Italian will only encourage more attention . D
You can easily fly to Zurich . The connections from Brussels to Zurich are way better than the connections from Brussels to Basel . And from Zurich you 're in less than a hour in Basel when you take the train . The prices for that train travel start around 15 Swiss franks . The SBB ( Swiss national train carrier ) has an <URL> . I found flights for around 300 euros for next week ( with <URL> ) You could also fly over Geneva to Zurich which is cheaper ( around 200 euro ) . Then I would think about only take the first leg of the flight , leave the plane in Geneva and take the train . But this really depends on the actual date and time you 're going to fly . You could also fly to Geneva , but this is a little bit further away from Basel . The train takes <URL> . There are also other airports nearby which may be useful ( even if I doubt it ) . This are particularly Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein .
<URL> says Photography is no longer allowed in the tombs . Searching <URL> also indicates this being the case . Another <URL> which even mentions that in Saqqara you can bribe the guards with a few pounds only says But they all pale compared with Ramses VI , which is 50 EP by itself . RIPOFF ALTER : no photos are allowed inside the tombs . Valley of the Kings is invariably a disappointment because there is very little to see , even less that is truly impressive , lots of tourists and no photography allowed .
There 's a pretty good <URL> , and from that , it looks like the bus is a viable option : Dublin Airport is only 16 miles away . The airport is serviced by buses ( 41 , 41a , 41b , 41c ) which will take you into the city centre where you can transfer onto a bus to Dun Laoghaire . There is also a service called AirCoach , this service is run on coaches and will deliver you in comfort and speed to selected locations around the city . The Dart is also accessible using the AerDart service which takes you by bus to Killester Dart station . The first <URL> on Sundays leaves from Dublin Airport at 07:15 . How early are you arriving ? From the centre you can then take one of these towards Dun Laoghaire : 7 , 7a , 8 , 45a , 46a , 59 , 75 , 111 Some of these buses start between 7-8 , some only at 09:30 , and some do n't run at all on Sundays . For more details , you could try the <URL> . Regarding the price : from the <URL> site it 's not immediately clear if you can continue on the same ticket when changing to the Dun Laoghaire bus , but looking at the <URL> , it 's going to be quite cheap in every case ( compared to a taxi which would cost around $ 50 ) .
Speed limits are in effect until otherwise posted or noted . So once you enter a 55 MPH zone it stays that way until you see a sign raising it back up to 65 MPH . Unfortunately not every road is properly sign posted , so it is best to assume you are still in the lower speed limit zone until you actually see a sign telling you otherwise . Often in an inner city area , all roads will abide by the lower speed limit noted when entering the city limits , but not all will have speed limit signs . Some speed zones are named , such as a school zone or safety zone . These reduced speed areas will often only have an " end of school zone " type sign and not a speed limit sign . Here it is presumed that you can return to the previous speed limit you were under when you pass the " End of ... " sign . Unfortunately for visitors to an area , speed limits are not always posted on every road , so one needs to pay attention to the signs you do see and their relationship to civilization , two lane roads in housing areas , neighborhoods often have the lowest speeds 25-35 , two lane roads in business areas a bit higher 35-45 , four lane roads in the city 50/55 , outside the city 65/70 . And to compound the issue , each city sets it 's speed limits a bit differently :(
<URL> : 6:00 to 23:50 ( time of departure from each terminus , arrival 15 -- 20 minutes later at the end station , if I understand the automatic translation from Turkish correctly ) <URL> : 6:00 to 23:40 ( time of departure from each terminus , with an extra train from Kızılay 0:20 to Ostim 0:40 )
I believe , all jokes aside , you have four options : Try to ignore it . Obviously , you 're trying this already and it 's not working . But you could turn the tv on , listen to some music , or take a sleeping tablet if you have one . Passive aggressive behaviour . Turn the tv or music up really loudly . Bang on the wall . Hope they 'll take the hint . Cheer them on ! Decide to take delight in exacting your own form <URL> . Order them some food ! Indirect/Direct confrontation . You could yell at them to shut up , that people are trying to sleep , but I 've seen this be ignored even in dorms . You could go around to their room ( since you 've tried the phone ) and knock on the door , and explain the situation and that they 're being unreasonably loud - they may not even realise that the sound is carrying that well ! ( from <URL> ) Use the resources available to you in a nice hotel - call reception . Tell them that you called before and nothing happened , that it 's still going on and that they 're banging on the wall ( you do n't need to say what you think is happening , just that the effect is keeping you up ) , and will they please send someone to knock on the door and tell them there 's been a complaint . More than likely , 3 and 4 are your best bets for a quick response , and # 4 is the most likely to keep you calm - a bad confrontation while you 're overtired ( ala # 3 ) may not be the best thing for you .
So , there are two mechanical solutions to , what is , fundamentally social problem , but before I provide them , I want to make clear that employing these is an easy way to be regarded as a jerk by your fellow passengers , and not without merit ; the seat is designed to recline , and while putting it back can be inconsiderate , restricting the use of the feature by others can be just as inconsiderate on a long flight . Think long and hard about just how much of an asshole you are willing to be before attempting to block the passenger in front of you from taking what small comfort they can in the horrid conditions found in coach class on a commercial airliner . First , the commercial solution : <URL> . A small device that clips onto the arms supporting the tray table , when the clip is in place , the seat in front of you is unable to recline . It can be adjusted to allow for limited recline , if you 're feeling considerate , but the ' courtesy card ' provided by the manufacturer should be pretty clear evidence that this is inherently a pretty inconsiderate product . If , in addition to being a jerk , you 're also a cheapskate , you might want to look into using a <URL> as a shim to prevent the seat in front of you from reclining . Like the Knee Defender , this has the downside of requiring that you keep your tray table down to rescue your precious legroom , and , unlike the Knee Defender , also will take up some space on the tray table , which may or may not bother you . It is similarly inconsiderate to use . Alternately , you could be less of a jerk , and pay the often pretty nominal premium to get a bulkhead facing/exit row seat , where nobody is in front of you to recline .
Possibly one of the clearest comments about it comes from <URL> written about the ice hotels : When checking in to the cold accommodation , you 'll get a key to your own locker where you can store your clothes as you change to your sleeping attire . If you 're staying in a suite , you 'll get access to your own small changing room where you can leave your outdoor clothes . When it 's time to go to bed , you pick up a sleeping bag and sheets from the reception desk in the warm building connected to the ICEHOTEL . You can choose between single or double sleeping bags . For a good night 's sleep , we recommend sleeping in thermal underwear ( such as a long-johns and long-sleeved undershirt ) and a hat . Preferably woollen . Your luggage will be stored in a locked luggage room during your stay . If you bring it to your room , it will freeze during the night . You 'll find warm bathrooms , showers and a sauna in the warm building connected to the ICEHOTEL . If you need to use the bathroom during the night , you 'll have to get out of your sleeping bag and go the warm building . So here 's a tip ; do n't drink too much coffee before going to bed . The bed you 'll sleep on is made of blocks of ice , a wooden base and a mattress covered with reindeer skin . Instead of a door , you pull a curtain in front of it . The snow walls are very sound isolating , so a loudly snoring neighbour will not keep you awake . Around 7.30 am , you will be awoken by one of our guides and served hot lingonberry juice by the bed . In the warm building , you can enjoy a warm morning sauna before going to ICEHOTEL Restaurant for breakfast . So it would seem there are both warm and cold parts , and you will sleep in the cold part , but be adequately padded and protected .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
end question
start question
When should I bow in Taiwan ?
TL ; DR : You should n't . Taiwan is nowhere near as " bow-heavy " as Japan , but the same rule applies : foreigners are not expected to know or understand how to bow , and that 's fine . Anybody meeting or being introduced to you is going to shake hands Western style . If you see people bowing at temples , funerals , whatever , what they 're doing is none of your business and you 're best off watching from the back . If somebody bows to you , it 's polite to nod back as an acknowledgement , but that 's about it . See also : <URL>
TL ; DR : You should n't . Taiwan is nowhere near as " bow-heavy " as Japan , but the same rule applies : foreigners are not expected to know or understand how to bow , and that 's fine . Anybody meeting or being introduced to you is going to shake hands Western style . If you see people bowing at temples , funerals , whatever , what they 're doing is none of your business and you 're best off watching from the back . If somebody bows to you , it 's polite to nod back as an acknowledgement , but that 's about it . See also : <URL>
The answer depends on 4 things : How you are getting to the airport What airline you 're flying with How frequent the flights on that route are How good your travel insurance is If you have great travel insurance , are on a route with one flight roughly ever hour , and are just hopping on the tube for 20 minutes to get there , then arriving just before you 're airline 's cut-off time is probably fine . If you 're taking two trains a bus on a 3 + hour journey , with travel insurance that is n't very good about missed departure compensation , to take a once-a-day flight , I 'd say aim to be there at least 3 hours before The close of baggage check and at-desk checkin times varies between airlines . BA , for example , have a <URL> , AA <URL> , so check with your specific airline to see what they require . Security queues can be bad at Heathrow , but not as bad as you find at some other airports world-wide . I often grumble about the Heathrow ones , but frankly I 've had worse at JFK and Seattle recently ! If you 're a frequent traveller who knows how to properly unpack your bag , take out liquids properly , already has liquids in a suitable bag etc , you should be fine within the minimum checkin times . For less frequent travellers , I 'd say 1 hour should be OK . The question then is more about possible delays getting to the airport . You need to leave enough time so that if you get delayed , you wo n't miss the flight . The 2-3 hour figure tends to be more about that , at least for Heathrow . Think about what could go wrong , what 's likely to go wrong , backup options , delay lengths etc. . Then , check your travel insurance , and see what they require . If your travel insurance wo n't cover missed departures due to delays getting to the airport , go for 3 hours minimum unless really close . If your travel insurance says you must have aimed for 2.5 hours before if they 'll cover it , obviously leave 2.5 hours ! Finally , there are shops airside in T3 , and some restaurants , so it 's not the end of the world if you get there with lots of time to spare . There are also some lounges you can pay to enter ( the No. 1 Traveller lounge in T3 is very nice , for example ) . If you have status or are travelling in a premium cabin , that could be a reason to get there extra early so you can enjoy the lounge more ! There is no universal answer
Certainly not . As a foreigner who lived in the UK for four years , I definitely only needed my passport for international travel . I used my New Zealand photo driver 's license initially for ID ( eg , to get into a bar ) , and then my UK one . For opening bank accounts and others where you sometimes require two forms , then you bring your passport . The UK is not like Russia or Uzbekistan where police on the street can and do stop you without cause and demand ID ( in my case , six times in one day in Tashkent , Uzbekistan ) . And in the event they DO need your ID , a driver 's license generally suffices - or they can go with you to your place of residence to get your passport if you for some reason got into serious strife . I can only think of a handful of cases that I needed my passport . To open a bank account , to prove my visa status for starting a new job , for renting a flat / staying in a hostel , and you definitely need it for hiring a car . I remember this one as I tried to argue it , but had to eventually go back home and get my passport . I was n't pleased .
The other two answers pretty well covered things , but here are a few more notes : <URL> ( In other words , one can treat the red light as a stop sign . ) In some ( maybe all ? ) states , one can be ticketed for driving too slow , even if there is no posted minimum speed limit . ( The citation is usually for something like , " Impeding the flow of traffic . " ) In most states , it is illegal to be seen drinking alcohol in public , including ( and especially ) as a passenger in a car . However , <URL> . In Mississippi , it is still legal for drivers to consume alcohol while driving , as long as their blood alcohol content is below 0.08 % . From personal experience , I 've noticed that in some European countries it is common for cars that are about to overtake on a highway to hover for a while between two lanes ( I saw this a lot in Iberia ) . Also , in Scandanavia in particular , I saw a lot of cars in the right lane actually move onto the shoulder while being overtaken . In my experience , I have never seen either of these practices in the US , and they likely violate many states ' regulations . Given the automotive boom of the mid-20th century , many large , multi-lane roads were built . As such , putting traffic lights at the intersections of these 3 + lane roads to allow left turns became a bottleneck . Therefore , some states implemented other means of turning left on large roads . For example , the <URL> is very common , especially in the Northeast . The " <URL> " is also very common in Michegan . This last note is n't so much about regulations , but I 'd highly recommend bringing or renting a GPS/SatNav . Unlike in most of Europe , I find signage in the US to be particularly bad . For example , in Europe there are often signs in the countryside pointing one to the direction for the nearest cities . In the US , such signs usually only point to the closest highway , so unless you know specifically which highway will point you to your destination , you may be out of luck . Additions ( 2011-07-19 ) : In an increasing number of states , it is illegal to operate a mobile phone while driving . The wording of the laws varies by state ; in some it is even illegal to touch a mobile phone while driving . In most ( if not all ) states it is okay to use a hands-free device ( e.g. , a bluetooth headset ) , though . In some states ( e.g. , Oregon and New Jersey ) it is illegal to pump your own fuel ; all of the gas stations are " full service " ( i.e. , an attendant must pump the fuel for you ) . In these states it is not necessary for you to tip the attendant for his or her service , although I am sure it is appreciated . I am not sure about Oregon , but at least in New Jersey I know that it is illegal to exit your vehicle while your fuel is being pumped ( presumably for the safety of the attendant ) . I believe these laws were enacted in the late 1940s/early 1950s because the government thought that pumping fuel was too difficult and hazardous an activity for the average motorist . The laws have probably persisted because repealing them would mean the loss of a great number of gas attendant jobs . In Oregon , it is possible to find yourself stranded after hours in the middle of nowhere until the gas station opens , so plan ahead . If you plan on using a radar detector , <URL> ( much in the same way that they vary by country in Europe ) . In general , it is legal to use a radar detector in all states except Virginia and Washington , D.C. . In some states ( e.g. , Minnesota and California ) , it is illegal to mount the radar detector from the windshield , since it obstructs the driver 's vision .
If you are a foreigner then it is ok , you can show them or hide them no one will actually care . It is not something common there for middle easterners to have but people do not judge foreigners for having or showing them . Regarding Egypt in particular , it is common for criminals and people who been prisoned to have them , so that will be the first impression . The answer in that question was meant for a person who wants to blend in and look like Egyptian . But for a tourist it is totally fine to show them . I live in Saudi Arabia which is considered to be the most conservative country in the middle east and locals do not make tattoos at all but we totally accept foreigners with tattoos like they do not have it ...
A <URL> was asked in <URL> . The short answer is Long sleeve light colored thin fabric cotton is leagues better than any synthetic . The short explanation is that cotton retains water ( sweat in your case ) , so it dries slower . Cotton will keep you cool by slowing down the evaporation experienced at high heat and low humidity . As to why use long sleeves , that came up too in <URL> and it gives 3 reasons to be covered from head to toe in a desert : Protection from the sun 's harmful rays . Air flow for convection cooling Moisture retention ( you heard that right ) for evaporative cooling .
What you have to know about bird flu is that it is first of all a transmission issue between live birds to humans , and then from those humans to others . So the people affected in the first line are the ones who go to open markets or deal with livestock . If you need to go to such markets or deal with live poultry , you might want to take a distance from this activity - in general , not only now . Bird flu has been an issue in Asia now since some years and you would be in a different type of risk all around , no matter of a specific current threat or not . The main concern that people have right now in China is that the numbers reported by the government might be under reported . Some say by a factor of 10x . What is the true number is of course anybody 's guess . The experience from the SARS epidemic showed that China likes to keep anything that could cause a panic on a smaller flame . The risk for the general public as opposed to tourists however is much higher since they go daily to live markets and buy food there . Tourists on the other hand are in very limited exposure since there is quite a path to make from the person selling the chicken , over the person buying it , through the cooks , the servers until you eat it at a restaurant . Keep in mind that at this point any disease is transmitted only through people , not through the chicken you eat anymore . General flu and other diseases are just as easily transmitted as bird flu . How often do you get a flu ? Well , that risk is the same in the whole world just as in China . So as long as you are staying clear of the markets , you are fine . Even if the current infection rate is under-reported by a factor of 10x , the chances that you are in contact with a virus in Shanghai through a restaurant is just about the same as anywhere else in China , and only remotely higher anywhere else in the world . And , by the way , the current status is that Tamiflu seems to be a working remedy for N7H9 , so even if you might contract something against all odds , this one does not seem the scary killer virus the press would like it to be to push up their sales figures .
It has an impact , but it is n't problematic . The Sabbath runs from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown , though in practice it could extend from Friday afternoon to Sunday morning . In planning your trip , it is much like planning in other countries where shops are closed on Sundays or museums are only open on certain days . The key thing is to plan your time carefully around these limitations . From our trip to Israel , I was probably most surprised by the fairly large Arab population . Since their holy day is on Friday , their shops are open on Saturday during the Sabbath and the Jewish shops are open on Friday when the Arab shops are closed . At least in the places we visited , there was always something that was open . I think the most problematic aspect of the Sabbath in our trip planning was public transport . However , we ended up renting a car , so it was n't a concern for us .
In general , you can find information about what items are permitted on the flight on both the website of the airline ( they will have a restricted items page ) and on the website of the relevant athourity who would control things for the country you are flying from . As you do n't give that here , I 'm going to take the information from the <URL> , which under the category " Sporting Goods " says : Bows and crossbows | Hand luggage : No . | Checked Luggage : Yes . with no additional restrictions . So you will probably be OK . If I were you however , I 'd enquire about the legality of possessing and transporting these items in your destination country - archery is a fairly common hobby , so I doubt they are illegal anywhere , but some places may restrict how they are transported and where they can be removed from containers .
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
In my opinion Airbnb is nothing but a short-let provider . Yes people do rent out their spare rooms , and thus welcome you in their house . But they do so in exchange for money , very much like a hotel , or a bed-and-breakfast , would do . In that sense I do n't think tipping is necessary . If you want to show appreciation to an excellent host , the best way to do so is to bring a gift . Once again , this is not mandatory . Now , <URL> ( " why would they ? " , you might ask ) . However I did find an <URL> stating that you should n't tip your host : Bonus Tip : Should I tip my Airbnb host ? This question that has cropped up repeatedly since we published this original post . The short answer is no , you should not tip your Airbnb host . Tipping is a way of showing appreciation for good service , but Airbnb hosts do n't see what they 're doing as a service as such -- rather , they 're sharing their home with you as an equal . You and they co-exist in the same space ; they do not ' serve ' you in the same way that hotel staff might do . As such , there is no need to tip them . If you want to show your appreciation , a small gift such as a box of chocolates or even just a note would be more appropriate . <URL> seems to share this opinion : Accommodations Leaving a tip for your Airbnb or HomeAway host is not necessary , and may in fact counter the communal spirit of home-sharing . Instead leave the hosts a gift to thank them for the stay , a nice bottle of wine or even fresh flowers .
Short answer : Yes , according to the official rules you could be denied access at the border . You can avoid this by submitting the green form ( along with additional documentation ) after the fact . It sounds like you participated in the <URL> and the green form was an <URL> . <URL> , If you departed by land , private vessel or private plane , you will need to take steps to correct the record . If you do not validate your timely departure from the United States , or , if you can not reasonably prove you departed within the time frame given to you when you entered , the next time you apply for admission to the U.S. , Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ) may conclude you remained in the U.S. beyond your authorized stay . If this happens , your visa may be subject to cancellation or you may be returned immediately to your foreign point of origin . [ Emphasis is mine . ] If you still have the green form , you can remedy the situation by mailing it to : Coleman Data SolutionsBox 7965Akron , OH 44306Attn : NIDPS ( I-94 ) USA if using the U.S. Postal Service , or Coleman Data Solutions3043 Sanitarium Road , Suite 2Akron , OH 44312Attn : NIDPS ( I-94 ) USA if using FedEx or UPS . You should also include a copy of the boarding pass you used to exit Canada . You should also provide a letter explaining your situation and why the form was not originally collected . Proof that you lived elsewhere after the 90 day period of the visa waiver ( e.g. , rent checks , pay stubs , receipts , &amp; c. , from after you got home ) would also be helpful . <URL> . Therefore , you will need to show that your total time spent in Canada and the USA was no longer than 90 days . The <URL> does seem to suggest that it may be enough to simply bring this documentation with you the next time you enter the US . Regardless of whether or not you mail it to the government in advance , you should definitely bring a copy of all of the documentation with you on re-entry . Also , if you are really worried , it seems like you will have no problems if you apply for and receive a formal tourist visa before re-entering the US , but that process will also likely require you to provide the same documentation .
Not unless you are trying to rent one during a busy holiday Generally as long as the company has cars to rent , you can rent them without a reservation . Stock usually runs low during holidays , long weekends and local festival days and as such this is a time where you should reserve a car . Renting in the greater Tokyo area is usually painless but does require you have either a Japanese Drivers licence for the type of car you intend to drive ( ie . Automatic licence for Automatic , Manual licence for Manual ) or an International Drivers Licence . Some companies also expect you to get a more comprehensive insurance policy if you are on an IDL . Also , reserving a car guarantees you get whatever car you have chosen ( rather than just whatever is available on the day ) , as well as being able to chose certain plans and get online discounts with some companies . Both myself foreigner on a Japanese Licence , a foreign friend on an IDL and a Japanese friend have rented on the spot before and this is unlikely to change in the lead up to the 2020 Olympics .
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
You can even get an IDP from AAA via Mail ! The application form is at <URL> I do n't know if they would mail it to Spain , but if you have someone in the US to go to them with the filled form and all the requirements ( passport photos and copy of drivers license ) he will get the IDP and can express mail it to you ! If not , your best chance is to just call the AAA . While you usually wo n't get any trouble without it , if something happens and you do n't have an IDP you are in trouble . Insurance companies are happy for any reason to save money . The police will also take a closer look after an accident .
You can buy residential ( not commercial ) property if you hold an Alien Registration Card and if Taiwan nationals are able to buy property in your home country . You are generally not allowed to buy for profit , buy multiple properties etc : only buy a residence for personal use . You are also " required to apply to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for approval of the intended purchase " with regard to the above criteria <URL> And more importantly a Taiwanese <URL> to the relevant Taiwan law , and it 's implementation , along with the actual act it refers to <URL>
When you meet them . You may well get " reverse omiyage " from your friend when you 're leaving , though !
Coffee ( コーヒー kōhī ) is very readily available in Japan in a variety of forms and quality . Yes , you can find a large variety of super cheap canned coffee in vending machines and convenience stores ; however I 'd rather describe those as caffeinated soft drinks with coffee-ish flavor than as coffee . Instant and filter coffee ( " drip " coffee , ドリップ ) is very easy to get almost anywhere ; supermarkets and convenience stores sell one-cup coffee-in-filter sets you just need to add hot water to , some convenience stores sell fresh hot coffee either from a pot or a machine , " family restaurants " like Denny 's or Gusto ( ガスト ) offer full western style breakfasts ( somewhat japanized of course ) where the coffee usually comes from a machine . Most restaurants will have a standard selection of coffee on their menu , except Japanese speciality places ( like sushi or udon restaurants ) . If this is good enough for you , you 'll be able to get by just fine . Starbucks and a whole bunch of competing chains ( Doutor , Tully 's , Beck 's , Veloce , Excelsior ) are all over the place , typically at least one of them near every train station or at the local department store , except for very out-of-the-way places . You should be able to get a decent shot of coffee there in every major and mid-sized city . You can usually get your coffee hotto ( hot ) or aisu ( cold ) . Aside from those there are many independent cafés ( カフェ kafe ) every here and there . Some very old-fashioned places specialize in romanticized western coffee tradition ( dim light , counter seats and booths ) and usually carry some form of 珈琲館 kōhīkan in the name . Others are more places to socialize which incidentally sell coffee ; take your pick . A lot of these places carry the same selection of coffee , Key Coffee and UCC are big brands and often part of the signage . You may or may not get a coffee at your ryokan ; unless they 're extremely old fashioned they 'll probably have something , but whether that suits your taste or not you wo n't know until you try . Modern hotels usually have something to offer . At the very least you 'll be able to make a filter or instant coffee with hot water in your room . Should you insist on a very specific sort of beans brewed just so , you may have a bit of a hard time . But as long as standard " international " coffee ( black , latte/au lait , cappuccino , espresso ) is fine for you , Japan has enough of it . Whatever coffee you will get will probably be pretty good for what it is ; can coffee does n't compare to a fresh shot under any circumstances , but can be very nice with the right expectations . Standard restaurant machine coffee will be decent for what it is . Starbucks &amp; co. are fine for what they are . You 'll be hard pressed to find a truly terrible coffee in any category .
end question
start question
How do I change my TGV reservation to allow for print-at-home option ?
It 's not possible to change your ticket delivery type after booking . Your only option would be to obtain a refund ( if your fare conditions allow it ) and then book a new ticket . I 'm not sure how good the customer service at voyages-sncf is , but for future reference you can book almost all the same tickets at my website <URL> and we have excellent customer service for dealing with this kind of issue as <URL> .
The safest approach to arrive in any city is to arrange for your hotel to pick up you , meaning there will be a guy with a sign with your name on it waiting for you right outside Customs . Just give them a ring and ask about " airport transfer " or " airport shuttle service " . The obvious downside is that this is usually expensive , often 2-4x the cost of a taxi .
Do n't take it personally , that happens in other countries as well . It 's not common , but there are hostels in the US , Canada , and Europe that do n't allow people from their own country to stay there . So if it makes you feel any better , there are U.S. hostels that will happily accept you , but not a U.S. citizen . I ran into that once myself when I wanted to stay at a hostel here , so I know it is frustrating . The reasoning is some hostels are trying to create a particular social environment where you can interact with travelers from all different countries . It 's also a way to make sure guests really are people who are traveling , not just locals who need a place to crash , or someone who just arrived in town and is looking for temporary housing . At worse , some hostels that let anyone stay can end up looking more like a housing project or homeless shelter . It does solve that problem , but it is unfortunate that they also end up excluding people who really are visiting town from other parts of the country . I do n't think it 's a great policy , but that 's the reasoning behind it anyway .
This is an excerpt from <URL> and <URL> See also <URL> even though it is about to be marked duplicate . <URL> has very powerful search options ( see the advanced options ) , including choice of return and departure day , length of stay , period within which the trip should happen and a range of departure and arrival airports . Exactly as you ask they look for connections on separate tickets <URL> , even on different ( low-cost ) airlines . <URL> <URL> does the same and let 's you circle departure/destination in on a map , has date range and also some kind of " promise " to help you if you miss a non-guaranteed connection . Finally be aware of <URL>
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
I have looked into this in the past and it 's very disappointing how insecure this functionality is in general . The only specific additional security I could find was the Amadeus <URL> which states this : PNR Security Amadeus individual pnr security allows you to set up special security rules so that a pnr can be accessed by one or several other offices . The PNR security functions may allow access to a PNR even when there are no other special agreements in place and can override agreements that are contained in the current security tables . PNR security allows you to share PNR viewing and/or updating capabilities , without changing PNR accordingly . Creating a pnr security element The individual pnr security element is an un-numbered and can only be created by the responsible office . R = For read only access : it is possible to view the pnr , but no updates are allowed . In this case the agent is given an error message at the time any pnr update entry is attempted . B = For both read and write access : full pnr update is allowed , except for change of ownership . N = For no access : the office id specified can not retrieve this PNR via extended security agreements . ( This overrides EOS ) Office IDs can include wildcards . To enable this , it sounds like you 'd have to book via a trusted travel agent who could set these specific GDS parameters for your PNR .
It seems you wo n't have a problem with this , just make sure you carry the official documentation about your name change . It 's also very common to carry two passports , the old one with the valid visa and a newer one . Quoting the US <URL> : A change of name will not affect the validity of the visa . We recommend that when traveling , you carry a copy of the document showing the name change .
At least on this particular route , facilities - or lack of them for foot-passengers - might be part of the issue . If you check out the Dublin Port area on <URL> or <URL> maps , you 'll notice that of the three ferry terminals - Irish Ferries ( T1 ) , Stena ( T2 ) and P&amp;O ( T3 ) , the only one with passenger facilities right alongside the dock area ( with a bridge that can connect to the ferry ) is Irish Ferries . Stena also have a passenger terminal , but use a shuttle to get foot passengers onto the ship ( <URL> ) . P&amp;O , on the other hand , have minimal facilities ; and only cater to drive-on traffic . There 's probably little demand for foot-traffic on the Dublin/Liverpool route ; at an 8 hours crossing , it 's perhaps the slowest way to get from Dublin to the UK ; more likely a foot-passenger will either get a cheap Ryanair or Aer Lingus flight ; or take the shorter 2hr Dublin/Holyhead route and catch a train from there ( perhaps as part of a <URL> ) or book a <URL> that includes the crossing . Lack of demand likely means there 's little incentive for P&amp;O to add the facilities such as waiting lounge , check-in desks , baggage claim area and so on that would go with accommodating foot passengers , so P&amp;O likely stick to their core market of truck freight and folks who want to bring their car to the other country .
This actually may not be an <URL> policy but an airline one . An article in <URL> suggests that not all airline allow frozen meats in carry-ons so you may need to check with the airline that they do . The same article also suggests possible packing tips for transporting the frozen meats as well . Personally I would suggest having your meat vacuum packed before freezing it .
From Easyjet on <URL> ' If you 've already selected seats , these will automatically be transferred to your new flight so no worries . ( 1/2 ) If the seats you chose are no longer available , we 'll allocate the closest match we can find . Any issue , please DM . Anna <URL> Hope this helps .
<URL> allows what you 're looking for . Just type the country of origin and destination . It even allows you to set the destination as all the world instead of country . In Skyscanner you will also be allowed to make broad searches regarding time . You can specify the time windows of your flight as specific days , but also as a month ( eg. : departing in July ) . The results will be presented in form of a price calendar ( or graph ) and you can check the cheapest days .
Yes , this has been standard procedure for banking in the US since about 2002 . Do n't worry ; just make sure your bank is FDIC accredited . Recent US laws require Social Security Numbers . <URL> <URL> <URL>
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
You do not need to pass through emigration when leaving the US . Unlike in most countries , US airports do not have dedicated international areas . The airline staff will check your passport and collect any documents you are required to hand in when you leave the country . Thus , this will not affect your connection in MSP . If the itinerary is being offered as a single ticket , the airline clearly believes that most passengers will be able to make that connection . This seems quite feasible if both flights are from the same terminal at MSP ( very probable if it is the same airline ) . You 'll probably be checked into both flights at LAX and only have to get between gates at MSP . This can be accomplished <URL> within the same terminal ( less if you are really in a hurry ! ) . If you need to <URL> ( <URL> ) , this becomes much trickier . You 'll need to take a train ( runs every 10 minutes ) and than you will need to go through security again at the other end . I suspect that you will not need to change terminals . Note however , that if there is any delay in the inbound flight , even if you are able to race to the departure gate , the odds of your checked-in luggage making the transfer is not good . Also , keep in mind that any non-trivial delay will cause you to miss your connection . They will try rerouting you if you miss your connection because of a delay in the first flight . However , there is no way of knowing how long or convoluted that rerouting will be . You may easily lose a whole day . Consider how important not being delayed is to you . If it is critical , this may not be a chance you 're willing to take .
As a Munich native I simply ca n't just move on after seeing this question =) Please forgive me if I expand the scope of this question too much - but there is simply no way to explain the biggest Volksfest in one or two sentences . There are quite some different factors influencing your chance to get your Mass beer : Yourself If you 're travelling alone and therefore only need to seat a single person you might always get some free centimeters on a Bierbank as long as the tents are not closed . Couples and small groups ( maximum of four or five persons ) who are able to wait patiently and sober ( you wo n't get something to drink as long as you do n't have a place to sit down ) , while a drunken horde is dancing on the tables around them , have a realistic chance of capturing a fair amount of space . But be aware of the fact that you will need to defend the new gained territory against others ! Larger groups really need to develop negotiation skills ( bavarian tongue preferred ) or arrive much earlier . The party tent Beer tents are like clubs : divided in different areas . There are boxes mostly reserved by local companies to amuse their partners , clients and staff . You wo n't get into one if you are not invited ! The largest part of the tents is offered as first come , first served . These areas have the highest demand and get really crowded . Outside and around most of the tents you find so called beer gardens which mostly do not have a roof upon . These places are seeked for by families , elderlies and those who want to escape the enormous noise level inside the tents . Here is a constant coming and going . ( Good chances to catch some seats ) Food is also served out here . The day of choice The first weekend attracts the largest crowds . Simply do n't try to come here on the first day . Local youths and young adults get to the Wiesn on the first crack of dawn just to wait until noon when the first beer is served . Also simply avoid the last day of Oktoberfest : locals mourn about the ending of the fifth bavarian season . People are queuing up in front of the tent entrances already before 7 o'clock . Sounds like the second weekend is the perfect time spot to have some beers ? The one in the middle is traditionally called the Italian weekend . Around 200.000 Italians cross the alps to populate the tents - that could get a bit crowded . On Tuesdays all rides offer special prices for families and kids . That 's why the whole Theresienwiese is jam-packed with small humans from toddlers to teenagers . A good day to escape from the hordes to a tent for one or two ( or some more ) beers . The weather Sunny and hot weather makes the Wiesn show her beauty : Everybody heads to the Oktoberfest and needs to get some beer to cool down . Tents close at least an hour earlier than usually . Bad and rainy weather in the morning keeps the large crowds off . This gifts you some time : the tents close later . On weekdays the tents are sometimes not closed at all . A sudden rain break out in the afternoon drives everybody into the tents . Those might be closed within a few minutes . TL/DR Both statements quoted in the question describe the situation rather good . On weekdays arrive at least before three or four o'clock . On weekends try to get to the Festwiese around 8 o'clock . But as long as you stay friendly and ask kindly you always might find a little spot and you will make contact to great people from all over the world . So have fun , enjoy our beer and have a safe way home . See you in September ;)
In practice , here is what you can do : Contact a consulate from your own country to get some travel document ( probably an emergency passport ) . Being in a foreign country without one is a perfectly valid reason for that ( even within Schengen ) . It will probably cost you some money and a bit of effort but it has worked for me before . Try your luck with the airline . Some of them like Ryanair are notorious for being picky about that but on some intra-Schengen flights you do n't have to show any ID . Even when an ID is in principle required and driver 's licenses are explicitly excluded , it 's possible to get lucky . This also worked for me before ( see below ) . Cancel your flight and travel back by train . There could still be a border check but it 's unlikely . Worse case scenario : You do get checked and the police/customs keep you for some time . You would still be better off than at the airport because you would already be in your country of residence and they should have means to verify your story . I have done that too , did see some border police officers but I was lucky enough not to be asked anything so I do n't know exactly what they would have done . On one occasion , I have been allowed to fly back home without passport/national ID but only a driver 's license and a few other things like an health insurance card . On their own , these documents prove nothing but they were helpful to convince the gate personnel that I was a resident of the destination country . They were very understanding and let me board the flight , stressing that they only did it because it was a Schengen flight . In summary : I would definitely contact the nearest consulate as soon as possible and consider changing plans but if that 's not possible , do try to board your return flight . Be upfront and honest , you could get lucky .
Go with a reputable company such as DHL , estafeta , or redpak , like many others have suggested . These companies procidr quotes online . Of course get insurance on it . Customs are not due when shipping from mexico to US , its usually the other ways around . The shipping company will tell you if there will be any custom fees though . They would be paid once in the states . DhL will bill you via mail . I can tell you though it will be expensive , paperwork sent to me was like 50 bucks . Also , packaging isnt usually available for purchase at these places like in the states . You would have to have purchased your own shipping box and tape prior to going to the shipping office cause thats another thing , they dont have pick up service . ( this is true for 3 non-turist cities in mexico , hermosillo , culiacan and tijuana ) So if you can leave the laptop at home , that would be your best choice if you want to save some time and money . Otherwise take ur packaging materials , expect to pay more than 500 pesos and ask the hotel reception for assistance if you dont speak spanish . One more thing the peso exchange rate is 15 havent seen it this high , you may want to exchange some pesos now . Its expected to get up to 16 in june of this year though if u want to take ur chances . Hope this info helps , have a safe trip :)
Millions of smartphones and 10 's ( if not 100 's ) of thousands of Kindles/E-book readers go through airport scanners every day . So far I believe the number that have apparently been damaged by airport scanner stands at about 2 for Kindle , and I 've never heard of a smartphone being damaged by any form of scanners . ( And in the case of the Kindles there 's serious doubt it was caused by the X-ray machine , and not simply broken in the customer bags ) In general the only items that should not be put through the standard X-ray machine are very high ISO film ( 800 or higher ) and some very specialized medical devices ( and if you had one of those , you 'd already know about it ) . You are far more likely to cause damage to your phone by dropping it when trying to put it in the tray than you are having it broken by the equipment itself . There is no need to remove your Kindle from your carry-on bag , so just make sure it 's packed well and you 'll be fine . If you 're carrying a laptop you WILL need to remove that from your bag ( unless you have a special TSA-approved laptop bag ) - again the only real risk is in dropping it or forgetting to collect it afterwards .
Use the <URL> to find the best exchange rate in the city ( <URL> works great for Russian ) : As of today , <URL> has the best rates .
end question
start question
What are the registration requirements when visiting Russia ?
The authoritative answer is at <URL> , but I 'll summarize for posterity . Whoever you 're staying with , be it hotel or apartment , is supposed to take care of registering you . They can take care of the registration at any police station or post office , you do not need to be present . When it 's done , they 'll get a piece of paper for you that confirms registration , and all is good . If you do not register , and you 're stopped by police , and it 's been over seven working days since you arrived in Russia , you 'll be fined ( & euro ; 50-100 ) . In theory , you can even be deported and blacklisted for returning for 5 years , but this is very unlikely . In your case , I 'd get in touch with whoever is renting you the apartment and ensure they sort it out , the magic word is propiska ( registration ) . It 's in their best interest to do so as well , since they can also get fined even more heavily for having unregistered foreigners staying with them .
<URL> has : Hitchhiking is done in Iran by waving one 's arm at an oncoming car , or by dribbling one of your hands . I have not seen this myself ( experience only of Tehran ) because taxis seemed virtually free there anyway but I think I recognise the " dribbling hand " gesture as something that looks to me like an accelerated version of a ' slow down ' gesture .
From Tokyo , you 've got two choices : <URL> from Shinjuku to Kawaguchiko , about 1:45 . JR Chuo line express train from Tokyo station or Shinjuku to Ōtsuki , transfer to Fuji Kyuko line to Kawaguchiko ( Japan Rail Pass [ JRP ] not valid ) , total travel time around 2:30 including transfer times . To Osaka , life gets more complicated : There is one ( 1 ) <URL> from Lake Kawaguchi to Osaka . It costs & yen ; 8,500 and takes ~ 10 hours depending on where in Osaka you get off . Fujikyu Bus runs <URL> to JR Shin-Fuji and Mishima stations , from which you can catch the Tokaido Shinkansen bullet train to Osaka . Both buses take ~ 2 hours , JRP not valid . Alternatively , backtrack to the Chuo line and either return nearly all the way to Tokyo to Yokohama to board the Shinkansen bullet train ( both the cheapest &amp; fastest option if you have a JRP ) , or head north towards Shiojiri and then loop back towards Osaka ( scenic but slow and connections infrequent ) . I rarely recommend rental cars in Japan , but the <URL> is one of the few areas on Honshu where it makes sense . Do n't rent from Tokyo , though , but at a suitable station along the way ; then if heading towards Osaka , you could drive around Fuji and drop off the car at ( eg . ) Shin-Fuji stn before continuing by Shinkansen .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
In the first step you would take the email you received to the police and tell them your story . If the police in your country are looking for someone and you provide them with a good reason to believe an absconded person is in France , they will know what to do . There is a global computer network connecting police departments in participating countries ; and if they think it 's appropriate they will use it . Others have mentioned contacting your consulate in France . It 's a good idea also , but note that the hospital would have notified either the police or consulate as a matter of procedure .
<URL> details these rules and the needed times . From this , we can learn the minimum connecting time depends on the terminal you arrive/leave and it varies from 1h10 to 2h . And yes , you will need to go through customs and claim your luggage , and then check your luggage again . As for the Vladivostok airport ( VVO ) rule you mention , unless I missed something , it says you should fill a migration card " at the entrance to the Russian Federation " , not specifically at this airport , so in your case it will most likely happen at Moscow airport ( SVO )
My personal experience has been that it 's best to get a SIM card for each country I travel in . Local providers almost always have the best deals , and buying SIM cards is relatively inexpensive . Especially in Asian countries ( where I have more travel experience ) you can easily pick up SIM cards at shopping kiosks almost anywhere , and the rates are really very cheap compared to where I live ( New Zealand ) . Data roaming from international providers is also very expensive ; as an example with my New Zealand cellphone provider in China I would pay $ US25 + a megabyte , whereas buying a local SIM card it cost me $ US8 for 250 megabytes .
From Tbilisi to Baku you can go via <URL> . It goes every day , so there is no problem with that . From Baku you can get to Aktau ( Kazakhstan ) via <URL> . People who used this ferry are saying it has no stable schedule , so you can <URL> : ( 99412 ) 493-19-63 ( 99412 ) 498-10-13 Also you can go to <URL> , if you want - it much closer , but I ca n't find info about transit visa for Turkmenistan . From Aktau you can get to <URL> <URL> . From there you can pass to one of the main border crossing points <URL> by <URL> ( and even to <URL> by <URL> , since in Almaty there is a Chinese embassy ) . Ürümqi is a large rail point in North China , but the only two points to cross the China-Mongolia border is <URL> and <URL> , so you need get a train to one of these points .
Counting Nights Accommodation bookings count the nights you spend simply because that 's what you need accommodation for : to sleep . This is based on the somewhat valid assumption that your main night time activity is sleeping . I understand where the confusion might arise from between day and night counts . Because nights are interposed between days you think you are staying for 1 day more . However consider that usually check-in time is in the afternoon and check-out is in the morning so effectively you are occupying the accommodation for the exact numbers of hours ( computed as ) you booked it for . To this purpose consider a realistic 3 night booking with check-in at 3pm and checkout at 11am . Total booking time is which is . Your 7-Night Reservation You say you plan on arriving on the 1st December and leaving on the 8th of December . That equates to a booking of 7 nights . Since you mention an arrival time of 10am , the actual check-in time depends on the hotel/hostel . Most of these usually check guests in in the afternoon , to leave time between check-outs to clean the rooms . Check-out times tend to be before noon , for the same exact reason . To be sure , ask the hotel for specific check-in and check-out times . However , if you arrive before your room is ready you can most definitely ask for them to keep your luggage whilst you go to the nearest pub for a good old English breakfast . This should be a free service . As mentioned in the comments below , if you desperately need the room for 10am because you want to shower/sleep then you might have to book for an extra night ( the one between the 30th November and 1st December ) . If you do so make sure you tell the hotel you will be arriving on the 1st rather than on the 30th , to ensure they do n't consider it a no-show and cancel your booking ( most probably after charging you for the whole amount nonetheless ) .
Let me suggest a rule I learned from packing for camping that I think applies just as well to packing for business or leisure travel . It seems a little counter intuitive at first . Do n't bring things you need for emergencies . Bring what you need for trivial little annoyances . From a camping point of view , this means treatments for sunburn , bug bites , blisters , and " tummy troubles . " I do n't bring slings or splints or giant pads of gauze . If we need those [ and we never have ] , we can use shirts and sticks and towels . People who are grumpy , in pain , or distracted by trivial stuff make bad decisions , trip and fall , and generally are at risk of needing emergency treatment . By treating the petty stuff we all stay healthy , and we enjoy the wilderness trip we 've worked so hard for . Similarly , when I travel within civilization I bring common-or-garden painkillers ( what you would take for a headache sitting at your desk , no prescription needed and no regulation by other countries ) , bandaids ( for blisters or small cuts ) , sunburn cream if I 'm going somewhere sunny , antacids , and other " minor " and " trivial " stuff . If you are injured or fall really ill , you 're going to get medical treatment in that country . Unless you 're climbing Everest , they 'll have what they need to deal with your appendicitis or whatnot . What you need to bring is the familiar and comfortable treatments ( that you already know how to use ) for the kind of petty stuff that might keep you from enjoying your trip . I enjoyed the adventure of working out how to buy hair conditioner in Berlin , but it would have been much less fun to work out how to buy something in a foreign language when I was suffering from whatever symptoms needed to be treated by it ! By treating the petty stuff I can relax and enjoy the wonderful place I 've come to , without being dragged down by a small pain or itch or not wanting to walk far or to go in the sun . That 's the real purpose of bringing the medications .
In my eyes 7/7 is shorthand for French which translates to . Meaning the business is open all week . Note that this does not necessarily mean that the business is also open 24h . Indeed in France you often read written on shops that are open every day of the week ( note the little , standing for == ) . For example , take <URL> showing a list of 24h businesses , and look at the description of the 24h pharmacy : Pharmacie ouverte 24h/24 et 7j/7 à Paris
It is probably possible to make calls from the US to Vietnam , but it depends on your provider . ( e.g. Viettel - yes , Vietnamobile - not possible for prepay customers ) . Before you go , you 'll need to turn on roaming . Your provider will have instructions for doing this - searching for <URL> or <URL> got me what I was looking for , so I guess doing the same for Mobifone or Vinaphone will do the same . You could try searching for CQVT [ your mobile provider ] as well , which seems to mean Roaming in Vietnamese . They 'll probably want you to have a fairly large chunk of credit on your phone , certainly in the hundreds of thousands of VND . Before you turn on roaming though and call away , as was pointed out in the comments , it will be expensive . Viettel charges you somewhere in the region of 33000 VND / minute to make calls from the US to Vietnam ( that 's about $ 1.50 right now ) . On the other hand , that 's still cheaper than the $ 3.99 / minute that T-Mobile USA for example will charge you to phone home . Your cheapest option to make calls home is likely to be to use data on a local SIM , and ( again from the comments ) the question as to how you can do that <URL> It will also cost you a lot of money to receive calls - it looks like Viettel would charge 11000 VND/minute for example - so bear that in mind as well . On the upside , it should at least be free to receive an SMS . Finally - to dial an international number , you just dial + followed by the country code , so for Vietnam that 's +84 ( you also leave out the leading 0 of the number ) .
If you do n't have Russian Visa , you wont be able to get out to the city . Moscow have huge traffic jams ;) It 's can take few hours to get into the center , and few hours back . I would n't risk to miss my flight , even though I 'm Russian . However you probably can make it and see Moscow for 1-2 hours , but I do n't think it worth it to spend time/money for visa , and to be in such a hurry :) P.S. : Moscow never sleep .
Have you canoed along the rivers there ? It provides a different aspect on the countryside . Have you visited any of the vineyards for tastings ? Have you explored the goat cheeses produced in the area ?
Tap water in Ha Noi and Ho Chi Minh cities has been treated , flourinated . But the infrastructure is old , so contaminants can seep back in through cracks in the pipes as the clean water makes its way to your hotel . Better hotels may have their own reverse osmosis filter system , you will need to ask if they filter the tap water in your room . You will see some blogs , especially expat oriented ones , that say it is OK , but as a visitor using bottled water for everything is the best course of action .
Virgin Galactic is now saying it will be in 2013 ( <URL> and <URL> ) and $ 200,000 per person . I have no affiliation ; a friend of mine is on the waiting list . As <URL> explains , your choices are to pay the entire refundable amount up front and be sure of a seat on the first flight ( thus becoming one of the first thousand people in space , since about 500 people have been on NASA or Soviet missions and a little over 500 are on this list ) , or pay $ 20,000 and join the waiting list .
A few things I 'd suggest : Do n't spend every waking moment together . Maybe that means one of you does the modern art gallery while the other visits the ancient history museum , or maybe that you go round a gallery at different speeds and meet in a cafe at the end Make sure you both roughly agree on the expected costs and comfort levels in advance Be prepared to compromise Sometimes , go a little out of your comfort zone when doing something your friend really wants to Be honest when something does n't work out
Telling the truth that your are married is correct and after giving the invitation letter and salary certificates . I do n't think there wont be any issue at all . If possible , if you have marriage certificate , there are no chances to question your wife anything thereafter .
As a native Londoner : The weather in the UK is notoriously variable , so the only way to know for sure is to check nearer the time . But it 's likely to be around freezing , maybe as low as -10 C or as high as +10 C. I would certainly bring some warm clothes . Snow is possible , but does n't happen every year . If the weather is very cold or snowy , prepare for potential public transport delays . London is normally dressed up for Christmas , yes . You should find Piccadilly Circus/Oxford Street in particular will have Christmas decorations up . Depending on how close it is to Christmas , prepare for potential crowding in some popular tourist areas ( e.g. Oxford Street is often busy ) . London has a lovely atmosphere around Christmas , though . Hope you enjoy your trip ! Like all enormous cities , plenty will be happening . <URL> is a good place to look for events / restaurants / etc. .
end question
start question
Are there any weekend-only tourist activities in Hong Kong ?
I was in Hong Kong recently and there was nothing that appeared to be ' weekend only ' . I did n't see any change in how crowded things were at weekends compared with weekdays . Hong Kong is always incredibly crowded . We did try to visit the Hong Kong Museum of History on a Tuesday and found that it was closed every Tuesday . ( It is well worth it , by the way - we came back a different day ) You might find that other museums have a ' closing day ' too .
I remember reading a piece about these recently enough that I thought it was on here . Evidently not . Anyway , there are brands like Vapestick , which at least on their website state that it 's legal to use them onboard . I assume they 'd get sued to infinity and beyond if that was n't true , by now . <URL> : While it is n't illegal to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes , it could definitely raise questions or cause other passengers to be alarmed , so you will need to approach the situation carefully if you plan on getting away with it . However , further down the same page they also note that despite it not being illegal , many airlines do BAN it , so it 's best to check with your airline first . Electronic cigarettes on planes are banned by some airlines operating in the US . In the UK , you can still get away with it in most cases , but there 's no way of knowing for sure . The easiest way to smoke electronic cigarettes on planes without raising any questions is to smoke in the rest room . Personally I find something mildly suspect about how they tell you to ' get away with it ' and the like . If there 's a place in this modern world you really do n't want to be upsetting people , it 's onboard an airplane at 37k feet ...
See " standard warning " at end re the inadvisability of snorkelling alone . It depends on what you want to see and do , but a brief answer is " almost anywhere that you see sea-water . Auckland is not renowned for its water clarity , but it can still be fun ( speaking from personal experience ) . You 'd want to stay away from the sewage ponds at Mangere , and some of the major creeks/streams that drain storm water from industrial areas . The Auckland East Coast beaches are all relatively safe . Rock areas between beaches are not usually anywhere as violently dangerous as the West Coast beaches but have numerous rock pools and relatively low depth areas with a reasonable amount of sea life . I 've never done it , but the old explosives wharf - now just <URL> - zoom out to see where you are - would be fun foir snorkelling . There MAY be a " no swimming " requirement - but probably not . I 've fished there , but never swum . <URL> is an utter gem . Several hour ferry ride so not zero $ but it 's a completely different world . Beaches and hidden spots with few people ( and a few very strange ones :-) ) . An utterly superb summer venue ( good also in winter but colder ) is " Goat Island Bay " a few hours by bus North of Auckland , but worth the trip . Transport may require some ingenuity - but to get a bus most of the way for $ NZ1 see below " The Naked Bus " . " Goat Island Bay " is the site of a university marine research station and also a marine reserve where all marine wildlife is protected . I snorkelled there some years ago and have never seen so many fish anywhere else in NZ . This may not always be what happens and things may have changed in more recent years , but you can inquire re the latest situation . <URL> <URL> The Naked Bus Company <URL> provides a bus service which covers much of New Zealand ( both main islands ) and which can cost as little as $ 1 full fare IF you book far enough ahead . As the date gets closer prices rise , but are usually still reasonable . A ride to Warkworth ( near GIB ) in March is still $ 1 on some days at some times . On March 8th you can catch an Auckland To Wellington bus for $ 9.99 - IF you book now . <URL> <URL> Standard warning - which will be ignored : There are no places anywhere that are good for snorkeling by yourself if you want to live to a ripe old age . Snorkeling is at the very benign end of hazardous underwater pursuits . While it 's about as safe as any such activity , it 's not wholly safe . But , you know that . I had a friend who frequently engaged in a ' safe ' water sport by himself in Auckland . He died . He was very competent and very experienced and everyone was extremely surprised . But , he 's still dead . Nobody knows exactly how it happened , but there is a good chance that if he had had a " buddy " present that he would have lived . Auckland map : Purple - best likelihood of calm and somewhat clear conditions . Waitemata harbour ( East/right ) is bearable for swimming . Sometimes Orca come in past the harbour bridge ! Rare . West Coast beaches ( red ovals ) are GREAT fun but great care needed . Careless people die . Muriwai - long ocean beach with breakers . Rocks to south of road access . People fish from here and on occasion get swept off and die . A competent snorkeller WITH FINS could have great fun there . I would only do it with wetsuit and fins !!! Piha . Bus from Auckland . Great surf beach . Some interesting rock pools , blow holes . You can swim around Lion Rock . Surf can be large . Getting back in through breakers cvan be demanding ( ask me how I know :-) ) . Karekare - South of Piha ( no circle ) . Bus maybe . Rangitoto Island - Ferry from Ak . Few people . Rugged lava coastline . Water as good as anywhere here . Waiheke Island . Ferry . Some lovely beaches , lots of rocky bays , headlands , ... . <URL>
Red Arrow has <URL> , but only one round trip , and only on Tuesdays . The Red Arrow Connector leaves Red Deer iHotel at 6:00 pm , after picking up at several other points in town , and reaches Rocky Mountain House at 7:15 pm . The trip to Red Deer leaves Rocky Mountain House at 6:05 am and arrives at iHotel at 7:20 am , afterward stopping at several other points in Red Deer . iHotel is the primary transfer point for buses going to and from Calgary and Edmonton . The buses stop in the west parking lot behind the hotel ; you will see a Red Arrow sign . Based on the <URL> , you should not have a very long wait to change buses , traveling in either direction . Red Arrow canceled its Rocky Mountain House service in June 2015 . As of now , there seems to be no public transit between these two towns at all . Of course , the town nearest to where you 're really going is <URL> , and this town has no public transit services at all . From my searching , I also was unable to find any shuttle services , as are common in the U.S. . The <URL> might know of such services ; it may be worth giving them a call and asking if they know of anyone who can arrange a ride for you from Rocky Mountain House or Red Deer .
I think that your problem here would be that you ca n't provide proof of income ( to show you 'd be able to support yourself for a year ) without tipping them off that you would be working there but not paying income tax ( since your company is not located in Laos and therefore your income taxes would go back to France rather than stay in Laos ) . Therefore , it seems like your best bet to do this legally would be to ask your employer to " transfer " you to a local Laos address so that you will be considered as " working in Laos " . Then you can also get the 1-year business visa that your girlfriend got . If that is not possible , then the only option you have is to leave the country every month and try to get a new visa by coming back . As you said , this will work for at least the first three months . After that , it may still be possible ( some border patrol wo n't care as long as you pay the fee ) , but it is also possible they will say " sorry , you used up all your renewals " - so if you go this route , you need to have a Plan B to either go back to France or stay in a neighboring country or something . If you have been dating your girlfriend for a long time ( more than 1-2 years ) AND you already live together , then you may be able to get a year long visa by contacting the embassy , explaining that you have this relation and already live together , and see what they can do for it . I have read elsewhere that some people can get a 1-year visa to stay with their spouse , so it may be possible to get one for a long-term relationship as well . You would probably need to call someone and talk to them about it though . Whatever you do , do n't try to just stay in Laos with an expired visa - it 's not worth the risk IMO .
Yes , having an Israeli stamp in your passport can restrict your ability to enter some Islamic and Arab nations including : Syria Lebanon Libya Kuwait Iran Iraq Pakistan Saudi Arabia Sudan Yemen What to do about it ? Here are some options ... Do n't worry about it -- If you are n't interested in travelling to any of these countries , it does n't matter if you have an Israeli stamp . This is the simplest option . Stamp separate paper - Israeli passport control is amenable to stamping a separate piece of paper rather than stamping your passport . However , be aware that this may not be sufficient for hiding your visit to Israel . For example , if you cross a border on land ( e.g. Jordan or Egypt ) , you will have the stamp from the nation on the other side of the border crossing , so not having an Israeli stamp is n't fooling anyone . Renew passport - Simply get a new passport after visiting Israel . Then you can travel on your new passport to any of the above mentioned nations . This is an especially good option if your passport is getting close to the expiry date and/or you do n't have any immediate plans to visit the countries in question . Second passport - Some nations ( at least in Europe ) will actually issue a second passport for the purpose of travelling to Israel . The US does not do this , however , it is n't hard to get a second US passport for other valid reasons ( such as needing to travel while your passport is away for visa processing ) . If taking this options , it is advised that you do not travel with both passports . Do not take a passport with an Israeli stamp to one of the listed nations even if you do not present it to officials as it may be found if your possessions are searched . It is probably best not to visit Israel and one of these arab nations on the same trip as it is harder to conceal the visit ( see note above about land border crossings ) . Other evidence of visiting Israel may also be problematic . I 've heard of receipt/stamps from a hostel in Israel as cause for ejection from an arab country . Source : written from memory though I believe most of the info came from the Lonely Planet guidebook
I found this <URL> giving a few options . Especially the second one seems to fit your criteria : Lipstick 19 , Rue Désirée M : Hôtel de Ville This café is a close second to the Voxx . There 's a nice little vibe and they have great booths if you 're staying for lunch . If not , they 're happy to let you sit at the bar and check your email or do whatever else . Most of the booth tables have power plugs .
To add to Josh B 's answer - Wan Chai Computer Centre . Wan Chai MTR Station , Exit A4 on to the pedestrian bridge , there will be escalators when you hit the main road to let you get down to street level . It is right next to a McDonalds ( you can see that sign from the bridge ) . Less busy than the rest , good range . Mong Kok Computer Centre . Mong Kok MTR Station [ ( not Mong Kok East ) , exit E2 ( Bank Centre ) , walk straight across Sai Yeung Choi Street , then the next one and it will be on your right . There 's usually a newspaper/magazine stand in front . That area is busy during all the waking hours though , especially on the weekends ( mosh pit style crowds , minus the moshing of course ) , so you may want to try on a weekday . Hours are roughly 10-11am ish , until 6-7pm . Sham Shui Po Golden Computer Centre . Sham Shui Po MTR Station , follow the signs in the station . This one is a bit more out of the way and less touristy . Golden Computer Centre has two levels ; the ground floor sells mostly games , consoles and accessories ; the basement sells mainly computer accessories ( keyboards , mice , cables , adapters , phone chargers etc. ) . There 's also the Apliu Street markets , which sell all things electronic , like LED lights , torches , 2nd hand phones , power adapters , batteries . Finally , there 's your standard electrical chains in most shopping centres and strips which should also have what you want , probably a bit more expensive though . The main ones are Fortress and Broadway . If in doubt , you can always try Mong Kok , Sai Yeung Choi Street ( Mong Kok Station , Exit E2 ) - these stores have practically every second shopfront on that strip . That 's also a big tourist area , so the language barrier may be a bit easier . One last thing - all the best to you for remembering which place has what at what price . There 's nothing dodgy going on ( well , not that I found ) , but it is a crazy mind game trying to remember where each store is , especially when they all pretty much look the same , and the centres are n't exactly laid out in the most logical manner .
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
There are several beer spas in Czech and a couple in Prague . It 's an " interesting " experience In Prague , there are : <URL> ( around 2500 CZK , 90-100 Euros ) Pivní Lázně BBB Tábor ( Source : <URL> ) For more traditional Spa/Massage : <URL> ( around 3000-4000 CZK , pretty expensive stuff ) <URL> ( around 2500-3000 CZK )
There are none left after the ones in Kai Tak and Diamond Coast closed in Kong Kong . you will have to go to China or Macao . In <URL> there is one the Cotai strip behind the golf court . I have however never been there and could not find an email/website either . There are two in Zuhai : The <URL> ( used by the HK GoCart club ) and a kart track on the <URL> , with their own <URL> . You might want to ask the HK club for further info : <URL> Chances are however , that you will not get very far with English on either of them .
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
<URL> , in Greece , does not permit women to enter . Wikipedia explains the rationale behind this prohibition as Monks feel that the presence of women alters the social dynamics of the community and therefore slows their path towards spiritual enlightenment . However , you may want to refine your question . For example , most restrooms are divided on gender , although I largely suspect that that is not exactly the type of answer you were looking for .
$ 350 HK for a 4 working day one . I did this last week , Monday afternoon to Thursday noon . 2 entries is 100 more . The agency I used is <URL> , the standard price is $ 450 , but you can print out a $ 100 discount coupon from their website and bring it along when you pick up the visa and pay . I was in China for 60 days last year , for this reason they said a new visa may be refused , but in my case was n't . It may be helpful if you have a second passport .
No , no way to walk from Kowloon to Hong Kong island , there are several ferries to cross the harbour , but none of them is free . There is no tunnel you can walk through either , just motor traffic .
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
I was in Hong Kong recently and there was nothing that appeared to be ' weekend only ' . I did n't see any change in how crowded things were at weekends compared with weekdays . Hong Kong is always incredibly crowded . We did try to visit the Hong Kong Museum of History on a Tuesday and found that it was closed every Tuesday . ( It is well worth it , by the way - we came back a different day ) You might find that other museums have a ' closing day ' too .
Sometimes while travelling , tourists need to ' stock up ' on a variety of items . Other times one family member may be attending a business meeting and the other family members need to kill a few hours until the family is reunited again . If a place is new and there are language barriers , it is natural for people in some cultures to contemplate what they would do in their own country : go to the mall ! For some reason , <URL> never really caught on in Austria . You can find the Austrian rendition of a shopping mall at the <URL> near the ring road in Salzburg , but to find another one of the same calibre , you would need to go to <URL> or <URL> . At the northern edge of Salzburg 's business district , you can find something much more common in Central Europe , the <URL> ( literally ' trade fair central ' ) . While not a shopping center in its own right there are lots of upmarket shops and restaurants in the vicinity . Macy 's is an American thing and keeps its business presence in Europe limited to internet catalogs . Illum is basically identified with Copenhagen and similarly reaches out via the net . Debenhams is doing great on Oxford Street but operates on the same model as the others . I recall <URL> trying something there on the ' bricks and mortar ' model , but it closed down a while ago . Perhaps when the global recession retreats far enough these shops will again try to penetrate Central Europe with a proper business presence , but that 's conjecture and well into the future anyway .
Most <URL> indicate that now the Zimbabwean ATMs in Vic Falls dispense USD . <URL> indicates that : Barclays Bank and several of the other banks now have ATM cash withdrawal facilities accepting Visa and Master Cards and dispensing US$ cash . The limit is the same as your limit back home . Charges are $ 1.25 per transaction plus the charge from your local bank which can be 2 to 3 % .
You should encounter absolutely no problems . Hong Kong immigration are both efficient and pleasant . I have resided in Hong Kong for over 9 years and hold permanent residency . We receive both family and business visitors who regularly tour the surrounding region . Recently a colleague holding a Thai passport entered HK on the 4 June , left for Dubai on 5 June , returned on 19 June , left for Macau on 24 June returned to HK on 25 June and departed HK yesterday . They did not hold a visa , and at no point were they questioned or challenged as to their purpose of visit and/or frequency of entry/exit . Upon each entry you will be granted the amount of visa free days applicable to your passport . These can be chained together and there is no limit on the total number of days you can stay in one year , as long as you always exit and re-enter before each visa free period expires , and do not take paid employment or engage in other activities prohibited by your tourist status . My only advice would be to stick to one passport .
end question
start question
Is there some other train than Eurostar to go from Lille to London ?
No . To go between France and the UK by train , you need to cross the <URL> . Only three types of trains cross the Channel tunnel : Eurostar high-speed trains carrying passengers <URL> carrying vehicles Freight trains The Tunnel will soon open to competition , but the other competitors are likely to be high-speed trains heading to other locations , with similar prices . I think the cheapest way of crossing the tunnel is <URL> , if you have one . It may not be as cheap if you need to rent a bicycle or to buy one in Lille and sell it off in London or if you factor in the expenses along the way . If you book a little in advance , a bus is likely to be cheaper overall . At least <URL> and <URL> . The journey time is about 6 hours , as opposed to 1 1/2 hours by train . You can also investigate ferry crossings . Since the train is faster and more comfortable , ferries can but compete on price .
I found the following map ( Source : <URL> ) The map is from a charter company , which have suggested routes on their website . One mentions a connection from <URL> . From Ghent on there a multiple possibilities .
Yes , you can travel with regional trains . It takes a little over 4 hours plus the connection times , and there are no good connections , so count on 5 to 6 hours for the journey . The bus takes 4 -- 5 hours and is cheaper than regional trains . It is n't easy to find the train times or prices because online planners tend to go for the fastest journey only . There 's an option to avoid ICE on the <URL> , which avoids other high-speed trains such as Thalys ( currently -- it did n't in the past ) . If you ca n't get a list of local trains connections , look up Bruxelles -- Lille , Lille -- Amiens and Amiens -- Paris separately . As of today , you can break your journey as follows : Paris -- Amiens : 21.60 $ , lasts 66min to 99min , about 1 train per hour . Amiens-Lille Flandres : 21.10 $ , lasts 80min , about 1 train per hour . Lille Flandres -- Bruxelles with a change at Tournai : 22.60 $ , lasts 102min , about 1 train per hour . That 's a total of 65.30 $ . It should be a little less if you go to a train station and buy a single ticket ( I do n't think you can buy that ticket online ) . In comparison , a last minute Thalys ticket costs 99 $ and the journey is only 82min . If I elect to travel one day later I find seats for 69 $ ( obviously this depends on how full the trains are ) . A last minute ticket on <URL> costs 39 $ for a 4-hour journey or 29 $ for a 5-hour journey , with no break of journey either way . So regional trains do n't seem like a good compromise between price , comfort and speed .
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
See <URL> . From <URL> , on why it happens : Airfare pricing is extremely complicated and often an airline has the choice of running certain segments at a loss by discounting seats , or a bigger loss by flying mostly empty with higher fares . They need to get their planes back into the more profitable positions on their route map , so they discount heavily only when they have to , and they 'll balance that with profits on routes that other airlines are n't bothering with at all . So perhaps at this time of year , Bangalore to Mumbai can be easily discounted for a small loss by the airline , and then get more bodies onto the pricier flights , making them always have full planes there , and this works out as less of an issue for them than just making the Mumbai - > Denver routes cheaper . Sometimes when the last segment is the pricey one , and you 're only going to say , B instead of C , on a A-B-C route , it 's sometimes cheaper to buy the longer , cheaper flight and throw away the last ticket . Of course , this does n't work if you need to get to C . We have several questions on this ( search throwing away , or not taking tickets ) . As an example , a friend bought a Bolivia - > Chile return flight , because it was cheaper than the one-way flight . He just threw away the second ticket :) Airlines do frown on it , however ... I also recommend that <URL> article on Hidden Ticketing for a longish read anyway , it 's quite eye-opening .
Yes , there are direct trains but I would not trust voyages-sncf . com to book train journeys entirely outside France ( or for anything else actually ) . <URL> will show you all the trains and should allow you to buy a ticket online . Another option to book the tickets would be <URL> ( I find the site nicer and easier to use than either SNCF or NMBS/SNCB but they only offer postal tickets for this journey so that 's not very convenient ) . Finally , you can buy a ticket on the day of travel , at the airport . Apart from international services ( especially Thalys ) and unlike in France , Germany or the UK , there is no advance booking discounts or seat reservations on trains in Belgium so little downside to buying the tickets at the last minute , except the need to plan some time for it . Besides , your train is little more than a suburban train , Belgium is quite small and Antwerpen is a bit over 30 min away from the airport . Note that , depending on the site/language , the airport station is also called " Bruxelles Nat . Aéroport " or " Brussel Nationaal Luchthaven " .
All Eurostar services are subject to Juxtaposed border controls . That means you clear the UK border somewhere on the Continent ( generally in France , except for Brussels where it 's in Belgium ) , and hence you also exit Schengen there too . Depending on the station , after Eurostar checkin you either do security first then France/Belgium exit then UK entry , or France/Belgium exit then UK entry then security . Because of this , only stations that are fully setup with local and UK border staff on hand + appropriate facilities + segregated platforms can act as the " final " departure station for a Eurostar train . Pretty much , that means the " initial " set of Eurostar stations . That covers the " normal " ones of Calais / Lille / Paris / Brussels , plus the " special " ones running from the beginning of Disneyland Resort ( Marne-la-Vallée / Chessy ) and 2 of the Ski stations ( Bourg St Maurice / Moutiers ) . There is a full border screening area on arrival in the UK at St Pancras . However , it 's not normally in use , and you just walk through it before you walk through customs . Very very occasionally , it 's in use , and you have to re-clear UK immigration on arrival in St Pancras , showing them your passport and often your ticket too . I 'm told that this tends to only happen when the police or border staff decide they want to speak with someone between the time they cleared the Juxtaposed border and arrival into London . I 'd say I 've had it maybe 1 in every 20 trips . For all other Eurostar services , such as the new one serving Lyon and Marseille , there is n't the secure platform nor the border staff nor the space for immigration . So , for these trains , they stop them at Lille + get everyone off + get them through security + immigration in Lille , before re-boarding and carrying on to the UK . This takes about an hour , but does mean there 's no 30 minute checkin time before leaving France . . There is one special other case which I think might be confusing you - Eurostar sell through tickets including a French TGV connection to a range of French stations , including some that they also run their own trains to . With those , coming back , you take a regular French TGV as far as Paris or Lille , then go through the normal Eurostar checking + immigration + security there before boarding your Eurostar . Eurostar run only 3-5 direct trains per week to Disneyland Resort / Marne-la-Vallée , number depending on season and demand . At all other times , if you ask Eurostar to sell you a ticket to Marne-la-Vallée , they 'll actually sell you a return to Lille plus TGV tickets to/from Lille to Marne-la-Vallée . If you book one of those services , then you wo n't be on a Eurostar all the way to Disney , and you 'll do immigration + security when you change from TGV to Eurostar in Lille . . Otherwise , handy quick test for your journey : If the journey has no changes and the duration is about the same ( + -10 minutes ) for the UK-Continent and Continent-UK directions , you 'll do security + immigration at your starting station in France/Belgium If the journey has connections ( eg London to Lille , Lille to Marne-la-Vallée ) , you 'll do security + immigration after your TGV leg but before your Eurostar leg on the way back If the journey has no changes but the return duration is about an hour longer on the return ( eg London-Lyon in 4 hours 40 , Lyon-London in 5 hours 45 ) , you 'll be kicked off your Eurostar partway through the journey in Lille , to go through security + immigration in Lille
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
You can easily fly to Zurich . The connections from Brussels to Zurich are way better than the connections from Brussels to Basel . And from Zurich you 're in less than a hour in Basel when you take the train . The prices for that train travel start around 15 Swiss franks . The SBB ( Swiss national train carrier ) has an <URL> . I found flights for around 300 euros for next week ( with <URL> ) You could also fly over Geneva to Zurich which is cheaper ( around 200 euro ) . Then I would think about only take the first leg of the flight , leave the plane in Geneva and take the train . But this really depends on the actual date and time you 're going to fly . You could also fly to Geneva , but this is a little bit further away from Basel . The train takes <URL> . There are also other airports nearby which may be useful ( even if I doubt it ) . This are particularly Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein .
Yes , at least in Germany there are two kinds of " hostels " : The first kind of hostel and the one generally meant by " hostel " is the youth hostel ( Jugendherberge ) which is managed by the DJH . You need to buy a member card ( also available on the fly ) to stay there and if you are over 27 , you must pay the full price ( which is still very low for a year ~ 15 $ ) . You are also less ranked than young people so if the house has many young visitors you may not get a room . Additional info : In Bavaria , a state of Germany , it was forbidden until 2005 to stay at a youth hostel if you were over 27 . Perhaps your friend comes from there ? The other " hostels " are meant for backpackers and do not need a card as they are private . Both hostels are not so cheap anymore , I have found pensions and hotel rooms with much more comfort which were only slightly more expensive . So look out for room prices .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
No . <URL> with an overview of the situation in each country . <URL> ( though it does look somewhat incomplete , at least for South America ) . Overall , each country has , or does n't have , its own network . There is currently no railway crossing any border anywhere between Mexico and Columbia , at least . According to <URL> , in South America , the only international connections are between Bolivia , Argentina and Brazil ( neither of the two links between Bolivia and the Chilean coast , to <URL> or <URL> , carry passengers , and the Arica line is currently closed ) . If you want to go from Mexico to Panama , railways wo n't help you much . Guatemala has none . <URL> has only a few commuter trains that would save you at most a few miles . <URL> has a few goods trains and commuter trains but there too I do n't think any are helpful to cross the country . Nicaragua is another trainless gap . <URL> currently only has a commuter line around San José . In <URL> the only railway is the one that runs parallel to the Canal . From Colombia to the South , you 'll need to go via Peru or Venezuela . In <URL> , the existing tracks would n't help you much , and anyway the only passenger train is in the Bogotá region . <URL> has a few trains but there are still large gaps if you want to reach Brazil , and then the only trains in the north of Brazil are on the coast . In <URL> , finally , there are trains that will take you part of the way between Ecuador and Bolivia , but with several large gaps . You can go from [ Cusco to Puno ] ( <URL> to Puno ) on the shore of Lake Titicaca , then a ferry to Guaqui in Bolivia ( if it 's currently running -- I ca n't find reliable information ) and there a train to La Paz . <URL> has several passenger networks , but here too there are gaps between these networks , and there are no tracks connecting the eastern and western network . The western network runs to <URL> on the Argentinean border . The <URL> no longer runs to La Quiaca , so you 'll need a combination of buses and optionally a tourist line , the <URL> , in Salta , to reach the main network at Tucuman .
The Eurostar arrives at London Kings Cross/St . Pancras . From there you can catch the midland main line ( to Sheffield ) or the east coast main line ( to Newcastle and Edinburgh ) . If you wanted to go to Manchester you 'd need to take the West coast main line from Euston ( a 9 minute tube ride away ) . As long as you do n't mind changing trains , the Eurostar is a perfectly reasonable way of getting to northern England
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
No . To go between France and the UK by train , you need to cross the <URL> . Only three types of trains cross the Channel tunnel : Eurostar high-speed trains carrying passengers <URL> carrying vehicles Freight trains The Tunnel will soon open to competition , but the other competitors are likely to be high-speed trains heading to other locations , with similar prices . I think the cheapest way of crossing the tunnel is <URL> , if you have one . It may not be as cheap if you need to rent a bicycle or to buy one in Lille and sell it off in London or if you factor in the expenses along the way . If you book a little in advance , a bus is likely to be cheaper overall . At least <URL> and <URL> . The journey time is about 6 hours , as opposed to 1 1/2 hours by train . You can also investigate ferry crossings . Since the train is faster and more comfortable , ferries can but compete on price .
There are direct trains , which run on the Keisei Sky Access line or the Keisei Main Line between Narita airport and Aoto station , and then continue on the Keisei Oshiage line and the Toei Asakusa line , as shown on these <URL> screenshots . <URL> <URL> Note the triangle-shaped icons to the left of the station names : they indicate that this is the same train running on different lines , so you do not get off the train at those stations . Note also that the Access Express trains ( which run on the Keisei Sky Access line ) take less time , but cost more . By the way , there is currently no direct train leaving Narita airport between 14:00 and 15:00 and stopping at Higashi-Ginza , but there are some which stop at Nihombashi and Shinbashi nearby , which could be good enough for you .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
Talgo train has been operating in Kazakhstan <URL> , for now there are 5 trains in Kazakhstan , and the route Almaty - Astana is <URL> , and , according to the most <URL> , it goes every day . According the <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian and Kazakh , to search , use ( Almaty ) to ( Astana ) ) , the first available tickets for this are on August , 2nd . And this site also claims that this train goes every day , so you can try to get last-chance-tickets ( some tickets can be returned by people who change their minds about using this train ) . <URL> , if you want to get to the Astana earlier than this variant .
It 's certainly possible to do a day-trip from Paris to London . <URL> takes a little over 2 hours each way from Paris ( Gare du Nord ) to London ( St Pancras ) and back . In both directions you clear immigration ( both exit and entry ! ) before boarding the train , which adds a little to the total time . However , if you 've never been to Paris before , I 'm really not sure that I 'd suggest doing this . Paris is an amazing city , and there 's more than enough to do in 3 days ( or even 3 weeks ! ) that I would n't generally recommend spending 3 hours ( and a non-trivial amount of money ) getting to London , just to turn around and go back ! Note that this is n't saying anything against London - if you were in London and considering a day trip to Paris I 'd probably be saying the same thing :)
There is ! But it 's slightly hidden , and you 'll probably miss it on your first attempt ... ( I certainly did ! ) Towards the north end of the station , not that far from the Eurostar checkin , are the toilets and a Bureau de Change . Hidden away in the wall between the two is the sole ATM in the station . As of June 2014 , it 's run by Societe Generale , and therefore does n't charge any extra fees for most people . If you look on the <URL> , and look around the area labelled " Hall 3 " , you 'll spy the logo for it . Basically , head for the Bureau de Change or Toilets , and look carefully between the two , and lo ye shall find the ATM of which ye searches ! If all else fails , at various points in the station are maps , which include a red " vous êtes ici " marker . Check them , and use those to narrow in on the ATM ( or whatever else it was you were looking for ) . Lille Europe station is something like 500m long , so you can end up walking rather a lot of you do n't spot it and keep going ...
end question
start question
Can the Entry Permit NO of Two Visas be same ?
Dont know about Dubai , but Qatar ID Number is of 11 digits . First digit will be 2 , if you are born in 20th Century i.e. on or before 2000 . 3 if you are born after . 2nd &amp; 3rd digit is your birth year in yy format . 4th , 5th , 6th digit is your nationality code , same for same country . Last five is your sequence number of entering country first time , with somebody entering at 01 Jan 00:01 will be 00001 . So , no , two work visa numbers for two different persons will not be same . Although same person re-entering Qatar after getting first visa cancelled will get same number as earlier . Note that this applies to Qatar ID Numbers . The temporary visa you need to enter and get the RP process completed may be totally different .
Congratulations ! Your visa will not be extended without you applying at a consulate . However if you supply the proper documentation to the international students ' office at your university they will extend your I-20 , thereby giving you legal status to remain in the country . If your visa has expired and you leave the US ( to a place other than Canada or Mexico ) you will require a new visa to re-enter and pursue your Masters . If you choose to join another university , the same thing applies - they will issue you an I-20 which will give you legal status in the country . You can remain in the country with an <URL> A new visa is not required unless yours is expired and you exit and re-enter . You can apply for a new visa with the new , current I-20 . Also see <URL>
I did n't find any maps that included the actual lengths of stretches , but I found two that at least tell you the speed limit ( or absence of one ) . I entered the legs into Google maps to get their lengths . I found one map on <URL> from 2012 ( according to copyright ) and another from <URL> ( <URL> ; solid blue streches have no limit ) from 2009 . The autobahnatlas map is from 2009 and no longer maintained due to the work involved . The speedhunter one relies on input by users to report new ( or removed ) speed limits thus it may or may not be entirely accurate . To the best of my knowledge there is no official source and documentation of the beginning and ending of speed limits . Contestants for longest stretches with the validity caveat given above , taken from the autobahn-speedhunter map : A 38 , A 14 and A 4 from <URL> ( c. 312 km ) A 20 from <URL> ( c. 290 km ) A 7 from <URL> ( c. 252 km ) A 31 from <URL> ( c. 185 km ) A 96 from <URL> ( c. 170 km ) A 3 and A 92 from <URL> ( c. 148 km ) A 5 from <URL> ( c. 116 km ) A 81 from South of <URL> ( c. 109 km ) Note that I have the feeling that the map is not entirely accurate ; e.g. autobahnatlas mentions speed limits in the Landshut area on the A 92 . Many people have confirmed similar issues with the A96 ( a 120 km/h section in the centre around Memmingen ) , and the A5 ( speed limit around Rastatt ) . I do n't know whether your information will get any better than this , though . Traffic-wise , I would assume the A20 and A31 to be the ones with the least other cars and no significant lorry traffic ( although most of these stretches are probably empty at 3 a.m. as Gayot mentioned ) . The A20 especially was criticised as being just some tarmac in the countryside without any cars travelling on it . A note on the safety aspect Other answers have already said this , but it bears repeating . Be especially careful when driving at very high speeds , especially if you are not familiar with the car ! Deceleration is quadratic with respect to distance so if ' some idiot ' decides to pull over into the left lane at 130 km/h and you shoot in from behind you 'll have some serious braking to do . Worse if there was a curve . 90 % of all drivers think that they are among the best 10 % of drivers . Go figure .
Yes , a single visa either B1 or B2 can be issued , but often they are combined . According to the official <URL> : Often , the B-1 and B-2 visas are combined and issued as one visa : the B-1 / B-2 . Now , the proof that single B1 or B2 visas are issued in some cases is the official statistics found on <URL> : As the table shows , they are issued separately but in small numbers . Why they are issued separately in some cases I have no idea and I could not find any information related to this in any official or non-official references . My guess is this totally depends on the interviewer at the consulate/embassy .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
Yes , you will be on the same plane ( and in the same section , namely , economy . ) As <URL> , these are just different <URL> , both of which are economy fares . The K fare is a cheaper fare class than the W fare . What appears to have happened is that there were no more seats available in the cheaper K fare class when you booked the ticket for your relative , so their ticket ended up in the somewhat more expensive W fare class . In general , this just means that you paid more for your relative 's ticket than for your own . There are a few more small differences , but they probably do n't apply to your situation ( these are mostly just related to things like upgrade eligibility/priority for people who have elite status with the airline . ) In general , as long as you 're on the same flight number on the same date with the same origin city , you are booked on the same plane , regardless of what fare class you have booked ( or what class of service you have booked . )
This is prohibited for safety reasons . Each row has one extra oxygen mask ( there are exceptions , some rows have no extra masks and they will be marked somehow ) . If more than one infant is seated in a parent 's lap and the oxygen masks were to be used one of the row occupants will have no oxygen mask to use . Usually the reservation system/agents will avoid such a situation but it could happen that a family with two infants will be given boarding passes in one row , the cabin crew then will move one of the parents along with one of the infants to the other side of the row or to another row . Update : in some larger jets the set of seats in the middle ( 4 or 5 seats ) may have two extra oxygen masks , in that case two infants can accompany their parents in their laps .
Simple rule , if the employer 's name was annotated in the visa page , then you should apply for another visa . If the employer 's name was not annotated there , then you can use the same visa , just make sure to bring what proves your business . In general , the visa is issued to the person himself to conduct certain businesses ( short training , meetings , negotiating contracts , etc ) . So even if you go to the US while with your current employer , you should present some documents for whatever business you are conducting there . In addition to that , nothing is mentioned in the <URL> about changing the employer . P.S. I had first hand experience since I am a B1/B2 visa holder . UPDATE Here is a copy ( after modification to hide some important info ) of my old annotated visa , my company 's name and my job was clearly mentioned . This is the new visa , it has no annotation whatsoever , and I used it to enter US to attend a seminar , I had to show the invitation letter at the airport anyway :
Bachtrack is doing that for you . Looking for the concert reveals that the <URL> is currently performed by the <URL> and the <URL> . You can even <URL> of this concert of all known past performances .
Technically no , practically speaking yes . Many of the coins look the same as US coins at a first glance , so careless clerks may accept them . I am in the US and often find myself with Canadian pennies and quarters which are very similar to the US counterparts . Having all the new coins in the US in recent years makes it even harder for people to tell the difference . Generally , vending machines will not accept them . It 's probably technically illegal to pass them off as US currency though , it might be classifiable as counterfeiting or fraud , but it happens all the time , intentional or not . EDIT : To summarize discussion in comments ... There may be stores near the border that officially accept CAD . That would be completely legitimate . I live in a border state but have never seen any . In all fairness I live 200 miles from the border but I do go near the border several times a year . I also have never specifically looked . It is probably limited to tourist locations . In reference to careless clerks , using CAD for an entire transaction is unlikely to work . 4 CAD quarters would be way less likely to work than 3 USD and 1 CAD . I 'm still skeptical on the vending machine front . I 've tried it without success and stopped trying , but maybe there are vending machines that would accept them . A whole discussion on how they work would probably be off-topic , but I think it has something to do with whether they detect a coin based on size or electrical resistance .
In the Schengen area , the relevant distinction is between flights to non-Schengen destinations and flights to Schengen destinations . If you have two stops in the area , your journey includes a flight between Schengen destinations and you will need to go through the " external border " checkpoint to catch that flight . There will be no passport check at the second airport and once you have crossed the border at the first airport , there is nothing stopping you from leaving , which is why transit privileges do not apply . Whether the next destination is in the same country or in another Schengen country does not make a difference and your UK visa and all the other rules and regulations regarding transit are not relevant in this situation either . As an Indian citizen , it means that you do need a type C Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . See also <URL> for a full explanation of the rules .
I must admit that there is a lack of information about the possibility to visit the cittadella . After some search on the Internet I came out with <URL> ( again , only in Italian , sorry ) stating that the cittadella is visitable from Monday to Sunday . Moreover , in the description it is said that the place has been open to visitors since 1990 . This point is also supported by the fact that in the cittadella there is a museum of the weapons and uniforms of the Italian army .
As noted before , Ireland is not part of the UK nor of Schengen . Though , Northern Ireland is part of the UK , but again , the UK is also not part of Schengen . Ireland and the UK have their own Common Travel Area , in which there are no permanent border controls between the two countries . As an Indian citizen , you may be eligible for the <URL> . Under this scheme , if you have a UK visa , you may use it to travel from the UK to Ireland , and if you have an Irish visa , you may use it to travel from Ireland to the UK . Anyone who is eligible and applies for one of these visas will generally receive a " BIVS " endorsement on their visa automatically , unless they are ineligible ( e.g. they were previously removed from one of the two countries ) . If you do not get a BIVS endorsement , then you must also apply for a visa for the other country if you wish to travel to it . The main thing to remember with the British Irish Visa Scheme is that you must always enter the Common Travel Area via the country which issued the visa . Only then can you travel to the other country . For instance , if you have an Irish visa , then on each journey you must always clear immigration in Ireland before going to the UK , and if you have a UK visa you must always clear immigration in the UK before going to Ireland . But you may exit the Common Travel Area via either country . You can apply for an Irish visa by following the <URL> , or you can <URL> .
Yes , in principle you should have gotten an entry stamp for the Schengen area . It seems the French border guard did not follow the rules . I do n't think UK border guards generally put exit stamps in passports , I believe the UK authorities should have gotten a passenger list from IDBUS so you should be fine as far as the UK is concerned . As far as Schengen rules are concerned the burden of proof will indeed be on you and you could theoretically be treated as an overstayer if you can not show a recent Schengen entry stamp , as set in article 11 of the <URL> : Presumption as regards fulfilment of conditions of duration of stay If the travel document of a third-country national does not bear an entry stamp , the competent national authorities may presume that the holder does not fulfil , or no longer fulfils , the conditions of duration of stay applicable within the Member State concerned . The presumption referred to in paragraph 1 may be rebutted where the third-country national provides , by any means , credible evidence , such as transport tickets or proof of his or her presence outside the territory of the Member States , that he or she has respected the conditions relating to the duration of a short stay . The previous exit stamp and UK entry stamp will at least show you have n't been in the Schengen area all the time since your last entry stamp but it would still be best to keep your IDBUS ticket to document the date you reentered the Schengen area , at least until the next time you exit it and probably for a few years after that . This is especially important if you are playing it close and want to stay several weeks ( if you are leaving within a few days of your first entry , it does not matter at all as you would not exceed the maximum allowed stay either way ) .
The issue comes up often and unfortunately , there is no perfect solution for this scenario . A multiple-entry visa would of course be a good one but those are mostly intended for trusted travellers who have been to the Schengen area before and have a reason to visit the same country repeatedly . You can always ask but you ca n't really make sure you will get one . If you were planning a single trip with several destinations , you should apply to the country that will be your main destination ( e.g. where you spend the most time ) , the regulation is very clear on that . But in this case , you are really doing two distinct trips and there are no guarantees that either consulate would be willing to issue a visa covering both . If you have the time and money for it , you could also spend the time between June 12 and June 23 in either Austria or Italy . You would then have a single trip with a clear main destination and could apply for a single-entry visa accordingly . For two distinct trips , the most straightforward approach would be to apply for a visa for the first trip , use it , come back to your country of residence and only then apply for a visa for the second trip . If you still have all the documents from the first application and you can show that you used the first visa correctly ( i.e. you did n't cheat ) , getting another one should be very easy . But 10 days is a short time to get a visa ( although if everything else fails , it 's not necessarily impossible so keep that as a back-up solution ) . You could also apply for both visas in advance ( in April-May ) , starting with Austria and then Italy . My understanding is that as long as they do n't overlap , it should be possible for the Italian consulate to issue a visa even before you used your Austrian visa . You would need to pay twice of course but you would otherwise be certain to be able travel as you wish . What you need to avoid is getting something like a single-entry Austrian visa valid for the whole month of June because it would not be enough for your trips but would prevent you from applying for another visa from Italy before using the Austrian one . Another solution in your case would be applying to Italy first , as soon as possible . If you are lucky , they might issue a multiple-entry or two-entry visa valid for June-July , and you are set . If they only give you a single-entry visa valid from June 23rd , you could still apply for another single-entry visa from Austria to cover the first trip . And if they decline to process the application , you still have time to lodge another one with either Italy or Austria and you have lost nothing ( in the case , the consulate should refund the application fee and return the documents ) . Whatever you do , you can always write a cover letter explaining your situation and join it to the application . Hopefully it will help the consular officer understand the problem and issue what you need . Also make sure to double-check all the documents and to have a very strong application . If you have everything ready , it will be easy to resubmit it to the other consulate if needed and ensure it will processed in a timely manner . Finally , if you get an Italian visa , be aware that the Austrian border guards might ask you about it . If they ask , simply explain why you did it this way and have all documents pertaining to your Italian trip with you , if they want to see them .
According to <URL> , it was closed in 1835 . Later it was razed , and a library now stands on the site .
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
Generally the burden is on you to prove onward travel . Whether that be air or land . Some case examples : I flew into Canada , and was going to bus to the USA . I had to prove I had a bus ticket to leave I flew into Argentina , with the intention of busing around South America . I had a return ticket to the UK . This was fortunate , as it at least showed I planned on leaving at some point . I was still then able to bus out . I was required to prove this even before getting on the plane TO Argentina - airlines can be fined if they let you onboard without proof of onward travel AND a valid visa / entry permit . Therefore , you will likely need either a plane ticket out of Brazil which you will then ' decide ' not to use , or will need to purchase a bus ticket in advance . At a push , having a hotel booked in Argentina might be enough , as it 's evidence you 're leaving . I 've been told by people that Canada is satisfied enough with such proof , given you could go to Niagara Falls and then walk across , although I 've not put that to the test .
It seems reapplying is one option . Since rebooking the flight is much costlier than reapplying , I am going to reapply . EDIT : - I reapplied following exactly same procedure as I did the first time . Got a call from British Consulate , NY as to why I am applying again when I already have visa . I explained the reason and that person was okay with that . Got approval email a couple of hours later . My UPS package has already started from there and should be here tomorrow morning . In the end , saved more than a grand ! It was worth the effort .
This is where you want to go . <URL> booth located in the middle of Times Square will give a discount up to 50 % on the shows currently playing on Broadway . Although I have to warn you that more popular shows and popular times are likely not to be available . What time do you need to get there will depend on the time of the show you want to see and the day of the week . Fridays and the Weekend tend to be the most popular .
end question
start question
Schengen VIDEX application form : my H1B VISA and my passport were " Issued by " whom ?
I am not really familiar with this particular system/form but here are a few suggestions : Depending how you look at it , your H1B visa was issued by the US or by a specific consulate ( if I am not mistaken , it 's called " Issuing Post " in official US parlance ) . Writing " US consulate in XXX " would in any case unambiguously provide all the information the German consulate could possibly wish . Your passport is generally issued by your home country . So , for a regular passport , writing " India " or possibly " XXX office in [ Name of your city ] ( India ) " ( or whatever the relevant agency is called in India ) or , if you live abroad , " Consulate of India in XXX " should be just fine . At the end of the day , many Indian citizens will have a passport issued in India and by India but there is a distinction between " citizenship " , " issued in " and " issued by " because of two special cases : People residing abroad and people who ca n't get a regular passport . For example , I do n't live in my country of origin so my passport was issued by my country ( and , more specifically , by one of my country 's consulates ) but in another country ( and , more specifically , in the city where that consulate is located ) . For the second case , refugees often can not ask their country of origin for a passport ( after all , they have this status because they are persecuted in this country ) and stateless people have no state to turn to to get a passport . So what these people have ( when they are lucky ) are various types of passport-like travel documents ( 1951 or 1954 Convention travel document or , if they live in a country that is not party to one or both of these conventions , some sort of ad hoc refugee travel document , re-entry permit , etc. ) In all the cases , the travel document is issued by and in a country that 's not the person 's country of citizenship .
The 6-month passport validity requirement is country-dependent , and I have n't been able to find that requirement on Peru 's embassy and travel websites . Some airlines are also picky about the passport validity time frames . However , the <URL> recommends that you renew your passport at least 9 months before the expiration date , and you are within the 9-month window .
You may not need your passport photo countersigning . If you can still be recognised between your old photos and your new ones , and you still have the passport , then you do n't need to get your photos countersigned - <URL> Everyone must send two new photos , but if you 've changed a lot and ca n't be recognised from the photo in your passport , then you 'll also need to get one of your photos and your form countersigned . Normal aging is n't considered a significant change and most people will still be recognisable . There 's also no mention of the need for countersigning on the <URL> Note that if you 're filling in forms or getting advice from anywhere other than gov.uk , you 're using a private company who may be trying to sell you something ( including a " service " where they just repost your passport to the government Passport Office and charge you an extra fee for it ) . If you 're appearance has changed so much that you can not be recognised If you do need a countersignature , <URL> detailing the process . It says that the person countersigning you must have known who you are for at least 2 years ( note that although your contractor nature shifts around , there must be people who you worked with over 2 years ago who you can still contact ) and either be ' a person of good standing in their community ' ( not defined ) or from <URL> : accountant airline pilot articled clerk of a limited company assurance agent of recognised company bank/building society official barrister chairman/director of limited company chiropodist commissioner for oaths councillor , eg local or county civil servant ( permanent ) dentist director/manager/personnel officer of a VAT-registered company engineer - with professional qualifications financial services intermediary , eg a stockbroker or insurance broker fire service official funeral director insurance agent ( full time ) of a recognised company journalist Justice of the Peace legal secretary - fellow or associate member of the Institute of Legal Secretaries and PAs licensee of public house local government officer manager/personnel officer of a limited company member , associate or fellow of a professional body Member of Parliament Merchant Navy officer minister of a recognised religion - including Christian Science nurse - RGN or RMN officer of the armed services optician paralegal - certified paralegal , qualified paralegal or associate member of the Institute of Paralegals person with honours , eg an OBE or MBE pharmacist photographer - professional police officer Post Office official president/secretary of a recognised organisation Salvation Army officer social worker solicitor surveyor teacher , lecturer trade union officer travel agent - qualified valuer or auctioneer - fellows and associate members of the incorporated society Warrant Officers and Chief Petty Officers Going off the sheer length of the list , it seems to me your must have a personal or family friend , or a business associate who has known you for more than 2 years who fits in to one of these categories . If you want to make sure everything goes smoothly If you 're unsure about any aspect of your application , the Post Office offers a service where they check over your application first to make sure everything is correct . It 's a bit more expensive , but you avoid the risk of making a rejected application that way ( and most offices that offer this service can also take the photos for you )
Disclaimer : The following paragraphs are not to be used as a recommendation , but describes what we experienced . Others might encounter difficulties if for instance one gets selected for a check by customs . Well , we did n't have time to get the passport , and did n't want to spend a lot of money on an emergency passport , so we went ahead and tried . The following is true for Norway-Germany , and Germany-Norway : Airport security and check-in : No problems what so ever . The airline staff did not ask for passport for any travelers . Airport security and customs upon arrival : No problems what so ever . No one even looked at us . We did bring the birth certificate , but was never requested to show it , or any other form of identification . Airline rules The airline rules are a bit ambiguous , according to Customer Service at SAS . Infants need to have a passport , but you will most likely not have to show it . But if they ask for it , then you need to be able to show some form of identification , a passport , a birth certificate or something else , if there exist alternatives . So , according to Customer Service , a birth certificate will suffice , although their rules require a passport . They did not know what the Norwegian or German authorities rules were , they only recommended to always carry a passport . National rules Norway The following is a quote from <URL> . Norwegian children must have their own passports . This is also recommended for travel within the Schengen Area ( Europe 's passport-free zone ) , since a passport is the only valid proof of identity for Norwegians abroad . As you can see , the Norwegian authorities recommend that children have a passport within the Schengen Area . They do n't say that you must have it . Germany The following is a badly google-translated text retrieved from <URL> : Children entries are invalid since 26 June 2012 at the parent 's passport . Since that day , all children must have ( from birth ) when traveling abroad its own travel document . This is for German citizens travelling abroad from Germany , not foreigners entering Germany . However , it 's likely that the same rules apply for both . Schengen : The following is taken from <URL> : Documents for minors In addition to their own valid passport or ID card , all children travelling : alone ; or with adults who are not their legal guardian ; or with only one parent may need an extra ( official ) document signed by their parents , second parent or legal guardian ( s ) authorising them to travel . There are no EU rules on this matter , each EU country decides whether or not it requires such documents . Summary The airline company will most likely let you board the plane with an infant without passport . The Norwegian authorities recommend , but does n't require that you bring a passport for an infant The German authorities requires that all citizens have passports when travelling from Germany . It 's therefore likely that the requirement holds for foreigners travelling to Germany .
I do not think that you have any reason to worry . Remember that each country sets its own criteria for visa issuance , and that the criteria are different for different types of visas . France is not part of the United States , and will not be concerned with whether you qualify for the B1/B2 visa . It will be sufficient for them that you have it . Because visitor visas have different requirements than student visas , it 's unlikely that anyone at the French consulate could even guess whether you continue to qualify for the US visitor visa , given that your application to them should be designed to show you meet the requirements for a student visa . There is one thing though . If , while processing your visa application , France determines that you are wanted in the US for a crime , they might notify the US of your location . ( And most likely refuse your visa . )
Your visa will indicate how many times you are permitted to enter China under that visa . On the first line , there should be a field " ENTRIES " with a letter and a chinese character following it . If that letter is M , you are eligible for multiple entries . China also has single and double-entry visas ; presumably , those would be the letters S and D respectively . If you have a double-entry visa and you have only visited China once or if you have a multiple entry visa you are eligible to re-enter . However , if you have a single-entry visa or have used both entries of a double-entry visa , you must apply for a new visa from the Chinese consulate . Hong Kong , while under Chinese sovereignty , is run by its own government and has its own immigration controls . US citizens are eligible to visit Hong Kong for tourist purposes for up to 90 days without a visa so long as you have a departure ticket and adequate funds . Visiting Tibet requires documentation additional to the Chinese visa , namely the Tibet Travel Visa and a PSB permit . These permits are usually granted to visitors who are on a pre-arranged group tour , and China does close Tibet to outside visitors from time to time . Taiwan is de facto its own country and has its own immigration controls . US citizens are eligible to visit Taiwan for tourist purposes for up to 90 days without a visa so long as you have a departure ticket and adequate funds .
Since you are a citizen of the European Union you do not need a visa to travel to any other EU country . UK is not part of the Schengen Area , so you only need a passport ( or national identity card ) to cross the border and that 's it . <URL> : Individuals from the following countries can enter the Schengen Area , Bulgaria , [ 3 ] Cyprus , [ 4 ] and Romania [ 5 ] without a visa : As of right , using a passport or national identity card - Citizens of European Union member states and their special territories
Since the UK is not part of the Schengen Area , I do n't see how this would be necessary ( and why you would want to do that anyway ) . If the country where you are applying for a Schengen visa thinks that they are interested in whether you have applied for other visa before , then they have internal ways to do that . They do n't need to ask you . There is the Schengen Information System ( SIS ) which in part handles such queries automatically . The UK as an EU member state participates in the SIS and exchanges information with other EU states , even though it is not part of Schengen ( and therefore can not grant Schengen visa ) .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
I do n't see anywhere on the <URL> that they do n't or wo n't do visas for citizens of other countries . As a matter of fact if you look at the <URL> you will see that they still do B1 and B2 visas with full application so that means that you can apply for a visa in Stockholm even though you are not a Swedish citizen just read the requirements in the <URL> and <URL> to see what you need to get a visa .
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
You can always apply . There is no specific delay between applications in the UK or Schengen area ( even to the same country , let alone to different countries ) and no automatic ban or anything like that following a mere refusal . However , you may want to be careful to address the problem raised in the UK visa refusal because , even though some of the rules and guidelines are slightly different , Schengen consulates tend to have similar concerns .
TL ; DR : You need to present your M&amp;M account number at the check-in or apply for retroactive credit for a flight online at miles-and-more . com under the menu point " Mileage request " . There is no real harm in registering at all the frequent flier programs where you are able to earn miles on . The airline has your data anyhow already once you take a flight , so there is no privacy issue ( as long as you do not use the card/number otherwise ) , and you do not pay any fees . Many programs also apply to car rentals , hotel bookings etc , so you can earn miles in several places . To get the miles on your card , normally all you need to do is to present your card/number at check-in and you will get the points . Once you have a certain minimum amount of points , you will get the physical card . If you do not have a card yet , or forgot it , you can simply give them the number or apply retroactively on-line . You can also take a photo of your card and store it on your smartphone so there is no issue in case you do not carry them with you .
A type D visa , like a residence permit , allows you to make short trips to the other Schengen countries -- very much as if you held a long multiple-entry type C visa or were visa-free . You only need to comply with the 90-of-180 days rule for the days you spend in Schengen minus the Czech Republic . The " valid for " field on D visas state the issuing country rather than " Schengen States " , because it is only in that country you get the full rights implied by that visa . The less extensive rights to short visits is something one needs to just know . It is not true that you " can only enter EU from the Czech Republic " . You 're perfectly allowed to enter and exit the Schengen Area through any of the external borders . You should be prepared to explain and document that you 're on your way either to the Czech Republic or to an allowed short trip in one of the other Schengen countries . You should bring your passport such that you can identify yourself to any authorities that might ask . A student ID is unlikely to be accepted by police who are already suspicious enough to ask you for papers .
Entering through France is definitely not a requirement . Even if you had planned to enter through the Netherlands from the get go , if you are staying in France the longest , getting a French visa is what you were supposed to do . Changing your plans compared to the itinerary you submitted with your application is not completely forbidden either but it does make your situation a little bit more difficult . Depending on the details ( including whether you have used this visa or stayed in the Schengen area before ) , it could in theory raise questions . Ultimately , border guards have the power to deny entry or even cancel a visa . They would not do that merely because you enter through the " wrong " country but only if they think you got a French visa to game the system or want to do something illegal like working in the Netherlands . That 's probably the source of the stories you heard . Because of this , buying a ticket at the airport would not help as it 's not a matter of fulfilling some formal bureaucratic requirement . The question is whether border guards believe you intend to go to France , do what you claimed you would do and generally respect the rules of the Schengen area . If they do believe you , it 's OK , you do n't need a ticket . But if they do n't , it 's too late , they wo n't let themselves be swayed by your willingness to spend some money to buy a ticket on the spot ( who would n't when faced with the prospect of immediate removal ? ) . On the other hand , buying a plane or train ticket to France in advance , while not required , could be a good idea and add to your credibility if challenged . Having other documents showing you will really go to France at hand would also be useful . Same thing for a return ticket leaving from France ( if that 's what you want to do ) and , of course , a good explanation for your change of plans . But only do that if you really plan to use that ticket and do not lie at the border ; You risk getting trapped in your own lies and giving the appearance that you are trying to cheat , which would greatly increase the likelihood of a negative outcome . See also the following questions for a full review of the rules and some issues people have faced in practice : <URL> <URL> <URL>
All biometric passports have serial numbers that change when issued . Per this notice from the Singaporean government , this is an ICAO requirement : <URL> And since virtually all passports are now biometric , even those countries ( like Singapore ) that did not previously change numbers do so now . Update : Here 's <URL> " Specifications for Machine Readable Passports ( MRPs ) and other TD3 Size MRTDs " direct from the <URL> : Field 05/I ( Mandatory ) Passport Number As given by the issuing State or organization to uniquely identify the document from all other MRTDs [ machine readable travel documents ] issued by the State or organization . " Uniquely identify the document " means that the number can not be reused for other documents . And of course it 's only a " recommendation " , because ICAO only sets standards and does not enforce them -- but if countries produce passports that do n't follow the rules , they 're not going to be accepted by other countries . In particular , <URL> . And a final nit : the standard above is technically for machine-readable passports , which is not quite the same thing as biometric passports , but the standard in question does document the rules of biometric passports , and all biometric passports are supposed to follow the rule above .
Thank you for the all guidance . I just want to share the real experience I had because I assume this will be helpful when someone needs it . On the first day I go for the Schengen visa , they requested DATV first . The next day I go for the DAT visa , they requested Schengen visa first . Then after few day I go for the Schengen visa again after explaining . They were very kind to understand my situation . They accepted and I could get the Schengen visa after 10 days . Then I have applied for the DAT visa and I could get the visa after 8 working days . So thank you very much to both consulates . For the entire process it tooks around 7 weeks for me .
Most of Europe is in the <URL> treaty area . The UK is n't . You would need a Schengen tourist visa for sightseeing . And a transit visa is n't sufficient for a longer stay in the UK , either .
Turkey and Armenia have strained relations for somewhat obvious reasons , but it 's not on the same level as , say , Israel and the Arab world . There have even been faltering moves in the last decade to try to heal the rift and ease towards increased trade , and where these have fallen down , it 's been as much to do with pressure on Turkey from Azerbaijan ( recently at war with Armenia and with an unresolved open conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh ) as direct emnity between Armenia and Turkey . Opposition to rebuilding trade with Turkey on the Armenian side is stronger from the ( influential ) Armenian diaspora than it is within unemployment-ravaged Armenia itself - it 's much easier to say " no compromise " when you 're the other side of the world to where the consequences are felt . For example , <URL> : Turkey has canceled the first ever scheduled Turkish flights to its long-time rival Armenia , days before the first plane was due to take off , officials have said , following fierce opposition from Turkey 's ally and energy partner Azerbaijan . The twice-weekly flights between Turkey 's eastern city of Van and the Armenian capital Yerevan were due to begin on April 3 and , encouraged by a U.S. push for rapprochement , were meant to boost bilateral tourism and trade . It 's possible to book flights from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Russia , usually ) , and buses from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Georgia ) . Of course it 's always possible you might encounter a particularly partisan individual border guard , who might use it as an excuse to make a fuss or try to obtain a bribe , but the airport is generally pretty professional by the standards of the region - when this sort of thing happens , it tends to be on the land border with Georgia . Such ( relatively rare ) situations can usually be resolved by staying calm , avoiding confrontation , and if necessary saying something like " I 'm sorry , I do not understand . May I speak to your supervisor ? " . In extreme cases , I 've heard stories of people turning such situations around with a disparaging comment or vulgar joke about the country that is the source of the anger , but for ethical reasons it 's best not to stoke and legitimatise this kind of nationalism unless you feel genuinely in danger and there 's no obvious alternative . I 've not known anyone feel the need to resort to this travelling into Armenia having travelled in Turkey , and definitely not in the airport - in fact , I think the incident I 'm thinking of , they were travelling into Azerbaijan having travelled in Armenia . The wounds from the Armenian-Azeri war are much fresher and more raw in the Caucasus itself than those between Armenia and Turkey . You wo n't need to do anything like this in the airport in Yerevan .
It did n't stop me , I got a grilling about the contents of my passport when I traveled for business in February . The people doing the checks were El Al staff , before departing LHR . They asked me about stamps for Egypt x2 ( from the beginning of the civil unrest ) , Jordan , UAE , Turkey , Morocco and a trip to Lyon , France ( though I suspect that was to get a baseline ) . The whole process took about 45 min plus another 45 min for a search at the gate . Then no questions asked at customs - they stamped my boarding pass as I requested and let me in .
end question
start question
Is it feasible to visit Yellowstone National Park from Vancouver over the Easter weekend ?
Yellowstone National Park wo n't be open on Easter , other than the road from Mammoth to the northeast entrance . Yellowstone 's winter season winds down in early March and the interior roads do n't open until mid to late April . So Easter is not really a good time to go . Hotels and campgrounds do n't start opening until the first of May .
The answer to this is : Fairly . I did n't use a colectivo in the end myself - for our group and distance , a Taxi only cost 30 MXN more . The walk from the highway is real , but probably only 500m - 800m or so . There is a sidewalk on the highway overpass ( if you need to get to/from that side of the road ) . Once over the highway there is a footpath seperated from the road to take you to the entrance .
All I can say after research that there is no such thing there as <URL> - you can set your tent anythere in safe , and relax . But be aware to the <URL> . There are general things there , but I suggest you to check this on arrival . During summer in Kopaonik some hiking tours are available from various firms , and , maybe , you could find any information about camping there .
Well it 's only twenty kilometres from Barcelona , so from that point of view , yeah it 's feasible . I 've done a similar thing in the past for Valencia ; staying just outside of the city . It 'll take you about 25-30 minutes to drive to the center of Barcelona from Gavà . Gavà is also very close to the airport , which may be handy depending on how you are arriving . But consider - if you were n't planning on hiring a car ( or do n't have one ) , then you 're adding the cost of a car rental , insurance and petrol to your accommodation ( as well as using an hour of your time each day ) to stay out of the city you were trying to visit . This also restricts your night time activities if you 're planning on drinking . I 'd be surprised if you could n't find somewhere in Barcelona to stay which works out the same price as commuting from Gavà . Bus If you 're not using a car , and want to use a bus to get into Barcelona , ten bus routes link Gavà to Barcelona , surrounding towns and the most important neighbouring places . For more information contact the Autobusos MOHN bus company , or <URL> . It would appear they run every 45-60 minutes , depending on the day of the week , although evidently my Castellano is not good enough to find how long it takes .
Well I took my chances and went to Joshua Tree with my toddler , including the Hidden Valley Nature Trail . Conclusions : We managed to do it and it was totally worth it . This trail was certainly the highlight of my trip and I highly recommend it . We made this the first big stop of our itinerary so my daughter would still be full of energy . She 's pretty active so she managed to walk half the way . Once she ran out of gas , me and my wife took turns carrying her . The trail is definitely not stroller accessible . Helpful advice to anyone else finding themselves in a similar situation : If you have a young child that is not up for a mile-long hike , another decent trail is the Cap Rock trail . It 's shorter and not as spectacular , but it is stroller/wheelchair accessible and has some decent scenery .
If you are comfortable driving in the US , a long term car rental ( ~ 1 month ) will be the best and most economical way to get around , even for cross country trips . I would recommend joining the <URL> . They provide assistance in charting out itineraries , along with maps and campground locations , which will help save on overnight accommodation . If you do not drive , an economical option to explore is the <URL> . Although well priced , you may have to plan routes before hand , there by limiting flexibility . Also , you will need to account for the expense involved in getting to and from the bus stops . For air travel , there has been an occasional airline offering an unlimited travel pass for a limited time period , but the benefits of these have been <URL> .
You basically have three options : Amtrak . Take the <URL> train from Vancouver to Seattle in about four hours . The big benefit here is that the train is n't nearly as affected by car traffic at the border , which can be very lengthy especially going into the US . This is because you actually clear US immigration at the train station in Vancouver before boarding the train . The down side to that is that you have to arrive earlier than you think , to be sure that you have time to clear immigration . Another down side is that it 's expensive . The cheapest ticket I could find was $ 41 each way , and for a more reasonable schedule you may pay more than $ 60 each way . These prices are likely to go up as the dates approach . Also note that you have to be careful when booking on Amtrak as most of the schedules they offer for this route are actually on buses . Bus . Several bus services ( <URL> , <URL> , and such ) offer service between Vancouver and Seattle , for as little as $ 15 each way . The down side is that you are subject to traffic jams at the border . While the bus companies generally factor border waits into their schedules , if it 's unusually busy , you might find yourself arriving later than you expected . A typical trip is also about four hours . Drive yourself . If you can cross the border at less busy hours , you can avoid the traffic jams and complete the trip in as little as two and a half hours ( assuming you are n't speeding ) . Late night on a weeknight would be such a time . And , gas is cheaper in the US than in Canada , ( even though it 's more expensive in Washington state than most other places in the US ) so you have an opportunity to fill up your car both on the way down and on the way back . If you have a NEXUS card you 'll skip most of the traffic at the border anyway . Aside from traffic at the border , the big down side is that you have to figure out where to park your car in Seattle .
Yes , it 's perfectly feasible to visit Malaysia in that time . Since you talk about things to see near the border , I assume you want to go to <URL> , which is the town on the other side of the Singapore-Malaysia border . You can follow the link to the Wikivoyage page , which contains a number of sights in the city . Clearing immigration in Singapore airport is usually painless and fairly quick . You should allow around 2 hours from central Singapore ( or a tad more from the airport ) to JB Sentral station in Johor Bahru ( credit jpatokal : <URL> ) , assuming it 's not a holiday or some other peak traffic time . You 'd then have several hours to wander around JB before returning to Singapore . Do note that , since your main goals are shopping and eating , and you only have 18 hours , Singapore might be able to satisfy your needs ( indeed , Singapore is sometimes criticized for having shopping and food as its only attractions ) . Crossing the border seems rather time-consuming relative to the amount of time you 'd be able to spend in Malaysia .
Both Turin and Genova are two big cities able to provide you a lot of attractions , the choice of the best one really depends on what you are interested in and what kind of cities you prefer in general . As a personal point of view I consider Turin far more elegant than Genova : nice streets with elegant buildings , the possibility to climb ( by car or by a little old train ) on the hill of Superga close to the city and have a wonderful view on the city and the Alps in the background , a lot of history related mostly with the period of the wars that brought to the formation of Italy as a single state ( but also big roman ruins ) , the biggest egyptian museum in the world outside Egypt and a vibrant night-life . Genova has a strong connection with the sea : the wonderful acquarium is considered its main attraction and its internal streets ( Carrugi ) are quite peculiar too . Even Genova has a rich history and has been one of the major european cities in term of power , so you can find several nice buildings reflecting this . I do n't know about the night-life there but I never heard anybody praising it like I did with the Turin one . Regarding the food , both have particular regional dishes ( pesto from Genova for example ) but I guess that Turin with the wonderful wines from Piemonte and the " fassona " meat could be considered better even from this point of view .
If you just care about terrorist attacks or ISIS activities , I can say that here is totally safe ( at least now ) . Although , as I mentioned in another post , some regions in Sistan-Baluchestan are the exceptions because of drug smugglers and some terrorists as well . On the other hand , if you care about political issues and somethings that are related to the government , I have no clear idea . Usually the UK and US citizens have some problems . However , I have personally seen several UK tourists in Tehran that were content with Iran . And finally , obviously there are thieves here too . You must watch out your pocket .
It 's a holiday shopping weekend , so you should expect traffic in any city concentrated around shopping areas such as malls , as well as heavier traffic on arterial roads . And Manhattan of course will be Manhattan , but you wo n't be there long . If you <URL> it will advise you to take the Holland Tunnel out of the city , which ought to be light traffic at that time of the week , and direct you onto I-80 west . This gets you out of the urban areas very quickly . Later you will cross into Canada at the Lewiston-Queenston Bridge , downstream of Niagara Falls , which will not have quite as much tourist traffic as the Rainbow Bridge crossing . Expect your wait to not be all that long there ; <URL> for the Sunday night after Thanksgiving are around 45 minutes at peak hour ( 6 pm to 7 pm ) , but you should arrive a couple of hours ahead of this . And remember to bring cash for the toll . The remainder of the trip is rural freeway and you should not see any significant traffic , barring accidents , which is quite possible if there is more snowfall ( though most of the roads are clear right now ) . It seems some snowfall is predicted for the Syracuse area so you might want to take Google 's alternate suggested route to bypass most of it . That route uses the Peace Bridge though . You may want to check <URL> when you get to Buffalo to decide where you want to cross . So , call it about eight hours , plus border wait , plus however long you stop for food , gas and other necessities . Assuming an hour for food and gas , 45 minutes at the border , and 15 minutes to get out of Manhattan , a ten hour trip .
So now that I 've done it , I 've got some good tips . FIRST THING 'S FIRST . I SWEAR TO GOD , IF YOU CARVE YOUR NAME INTO ONE OF THESE TREES , I WILL HUNT YOU DOWN MYSELF . That being said -- I landed in Arcata airport , where I rented a car from Hertz right in the airport . They 're open pretty late and also rent to people as young as 20 , so it 's pretty damn convenient . From there , things get cool . If you 're impatient and want to see giant trees NOW , like I did , drive south to Humboldt Redwoods State Park . It 's only 50 miles down Highway 101 , and if you follow the signs for the Avenue of the Giants , you 'll be seeing massive trees in less than an hour from leaving the airport . The Avenue of the Giants is pretty long , and it 's not one straight road -- it takes a turn in at least one place . I followed it as far as the famous Drive Thru Tree , although that particular tourist attraction is pretty damn lame . Turns out it 's privately owned by a business who charges you something like $ 6 to drive through the tree , and there was literally a line of cars in front of me , like at a fast food drive-through . I turned around and left . Drive Thru Tree is a waste of time , in my books . If you head back north on the 101 ( catching spectacular ocean views all the while ... one of the best driving highways in the United States , no doubt ) , from the airport it 's about 75 miles to Crescent City , which sits on the coast beside the premier Redwood destination , Jedediah Smith Redwood State Park , as well as three other parks : Prairie Creek Redwoods State Park , Redwood National Park , and Del Norte Coast Redwoods State Park . Crescent City is definitely the place to stay the night if you did n't come for camping . Find a motel or hotel or whatever . If you 're there for camping , Jedediah Smith has a ton of campsites . I think it costs a little money ( $ 10 ? ) and I 'm pretty sure you 're supposed to make a reservation , or at least it 's a very good idea . The whole place was full when I went on a Saturday in the summer . SPEAKING OF WHICH , when to go . I went during the summer , in full heat of July , and the parks were cool and not muggy . They were amazing . Go in the summer . <URL> which includes contact information . Now on to the good stuff . So , given a full day to spend anywhere , my vote is to spend it in Jedediah Smith like I did . You will not be disappointed . Everything you 're coming for , you 'll find here . What I did is head up the 101 from Crescent City to where it splits off on 199 , which brings you straight into the park . If you 're going camping , you 'll see a clear sign on the right for the Jedediah Smith Campgrounds . The entire park is very well marked with signs ; you wo n't have any trouble finding things . From the campgrounds you can cross the Smith River on a really charming footbridge to find yourself at the park 's central trail crossroads and starting point . If you 're not camping , keep going up 199 until you see South Fork Road on your right . Follow that across two bridges and keep right onto Douglas Park Drive , then onto Howland Hill Road . This will bring you directly to parking for Stout Grove , and for the park 's central trail crossroads and starting point . NOW FOR THE HIKING . Bring bug spray . <URL> It might be wise to wear long pants . In my experience , the most poison oak was near the Stout Grove parking area , where it is abundant . I saw almost none along the trails I walked , but I 'm sure it 's here and there . Stout Grove , which ( for those coming from the campground ) is across Mill Creek and up a little staircase , is really gorgeous and worth seeing . Full of massive trees . It 's the first thing you 'll see if you start from the Stout Grove parking area . I then spent my day hiking down Mill Creek Trail <URL> , which is the crucial thing here . If you want to go hiking in the Redwood forests , I ca n't imagine a more perfect and beautiful trail . Everything you 're dreaming of is on this trail , which follows the picturesque and crystal clear Mill Creek down through the park . I had done some research on the biggest trees and wanted to see the Grove of Titans , which by many accounts is extremely challenging to find , involving arduous hiking across difficult terrain . I can now tell you this is not true . I 'm not going to tell you where it is , but I 'll tell you that two hours of <URL> <URL> <URL> via Google was more than enough for me to pinpoint the grove 's location almost exactly without ever having been there , and walk directly to it . To be honest I 'm more impressed by people who do n't find it than people who do . If you keep your eyes open , it 's hard to miss , and believe me , it 's worth seeing . As you go along , if you 're looking for it , you 'll keep saying " This tree looks bigger than the others -- is this the Grove of Titans ??? " but you wo n't be sure . Trust me , if and when you find the Grove of Titans , you will know it beyond the shadow of a doubt . Absolute awe will settle over you . Having given you more than enough information to find
Looks like <URL> offers one : Ocean Quest West is located at Trout River Pond on the south side of Gros Morne National Park , a UNESCO World Heritage Site . Our 2 hour Zodiac and Kayaking adventures bring our guests through 500 million years of history and explores rare and amazing geology such as the Tablelands , a piece of the Earth 's mantle thrust up from the depths of the planet . In addition to the spectacular scenery and geology you will also have the opportunity to view wildlife such as moose , caribou , and black bear and learn about the rich local culture . Our certified and experienced interpretive guides operate 7 days a week from June 10th -- September 10th . 9am-5pm Daily . Bilingual guides are available upon request . Hat tip to <URL>
The Pacific route is a beautiful route ! Expensive , but beautiful none the less . From the West Coast of the U.S. , you can take Amtrak 's Cascades train ( tel. 800/USA RAIL ; www.amtrak.com ) to Bellingham , Washington ; the dock for the Alaska ferry is quite close to the railroad station . From the east , it makes more sense to use Canada 's Via Rail ( tel. 888/VIA-RAIL ; www.viarail.ca ) . The transcontinental route starts all the way back in Toronto ; you change in Jasper to end up in Prince Rupert , B.C. , where you can catch the Alaska ferry north . <URL> Regardless , your <URL> ; you 'll have to double back East to head North , and you 'll only go as far as Prince Rupert . ( Screenshot from www.viarail.ca ) I would go with if I did n't have a job !
I have never come over any ATMs with dollars in Tanzania . I have lived in Arusha for a year ( 2004/2006 ) and have been there off and on since . I seriously doubt you will find any such ATMs . The country is however flooded with ATMs , though the one at Kilimanjaro airport was in disrepair around two months ago , last time I passed through that airport . ATMs with Tanzanian shillings ( tsh ) are available in most towns and along major roads . You can usually get prices in tanzanian shillings instead of dollars . Nobody are obliged to pay in dollars in Tanzania , although hotel owners and others may ask for dollars for many reasons . It used to be like that , but I am sure not any more . Just checked with a friend of mine ( tour operator ) and they were quite sure . The TANAPA ( Tanzania National Parks ) and many others also facilitate for payments using hand held VISA terminals .
I asked my Turkish friends and here 's what they had to say : although major cities do have water filtration plants and water is considered drinkable at the source , the quality of water pipes that supply it within a building or in specific localities might be suspect . You are , thus , better off not drinking tap water straight unless you 're using it after boiling ( or in foods/drinks where water is boiled in the process ) or filtering .
You can catch the <URL> ( no relation ) every 15-30 minutes all day from Manhattan to Manorville , then a taxi back to Brookhaven National Laboratory . The taxi fare may be quite a bit cheaper this way than from Ronkonkoma as the distance is shorter . It may also be faster , depending on time of day , since the bus has only one stop between Manhattan and Manorville . The bus picks up at 40th and Lexington , so you 'll have to go crosstown several blocks from Port Authority ; either take the 7/7X from Times Square/42nd St to Grand Central Terminal , or walk it .
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
Yes , you can leave the airport . Green card holders do n't need a visa to visit Canada . You will need to go through Canadian immigration after arrival to Vancouver , no matter whether you decide to leave the airport or not . You should arrive at the airport in advance since you will need to clear the US immigration in Vancouver before the departure . Update : If anybody can suggest how to spend time in Vancouver , please post a separate answer . But clearly if you take a cab to the city and back , you 'll have at least 5-6 hours in Vancouver .
My parents just visited Niagara Falls last week ( 12 , 13 and 14 September ) from New York , they too visited only the US side . And , one weekend before my parents , my colleague visited their with his family ( after his reviews I planned tour for my parents ) . So , as told by all of them and after seeing the pictures they have taken , I can assure you that the view at this time is same as seen over google pictures . Level of water and crowd visiting Niagara falls is good enough to make this tour a cherish-able tour . Although my parents has taken 3 days and 2 nights tour ( including Washington DC , Philadelphia , Watkins Glen Tour ) but they were very much impressed and happy with the Niagara Falls place . If you visit the same by anytime end of October it will be good time for visiting that place .
end question
start question
What should we plan to see on a weekend in Belfast ?
Belfast is awesome place . There are many attractions in Belfast . I recommend you visit Grand Opera House , Royal Ulster Rifles Museum , Belvoir Park Golf Club , The Odyssey , Queens Film Theatre , Ulster Museum , Titanic Dock and Pump House , City Hall etc.Last time during my Europe travel I visited Belfast it is really beautiful place .
<URL> details these rules and the needed times . From this , we can learn the minimum connecting time depends on the terminal you arrive/leave and it varies from 1h10 to 2h . And yes , you will need to go through customs and claim your luggage , and then check your luggage again . As for the Vladivostok airport ( VVO ) rule you mention , unless I missed something , it says you should fill a migration card " at the entrance to the Russian Federation " , not specifically at this airport , so in your case it will most likely happen at Moscow airport ( SVO )
Whenever I used to visit Montreal I 'd try to hit as many of the following as possible : The Old Port of Montreal St. Catherines street Bell Centre/new forum . Plus the old forum , it 's a lot of hockey history , and my favourite restaurant is right next door ( indeed the only St. Hubert 's I 'll go to ) Olympic Stadium , although it was more when they had a baseball team . Westmount , if you want to see some history and see how the rich folks live in Montreal . Mount Royal , has a great view of the city . Montreal casino and the Laurentians , but that 's not really in town . Really with few exceptions you ca n't really go wrong with anywhere in Montreal . It 's got a multitude of things to check out that you ca n't say about most other cities in North America . And the the restaurant and night life ? Top notch .
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
You can even get an IDP from AAA via Mail ! The application form is at <URL> I do n't know if they would mail it to Spain , but if you have someone in the US to go to them with the filled form and all the requirements ( passport photos and copy of drivers license ) he will get the IDP and can express mail it to you ! If not , your best chance is to just call the AAA . While you usually wo n't get any trouble without it , if something happens and you do n't have an IDP you are in trouble . Insurance companies are happy for any reason to save money . The police will also take a closer look after an accident .
Many areas of New Zealand wilderness are very far off the beaten track . You may find you are out of cellphone coverage for several days at a time . Smart people rent personal locator beacons if they plan to go tramping alone . The water in the mountains is pretty safe to drink , but if the river drains farmland then you would need some kind of filtration system . Treatment for blisters is important , as is insect repellent . Most places have a local formulation that they swear by . The weather in NZ is VERY changeable , and it 's important to carry lots of layers , especially wool or polyprop . If you do have an accident , you 'll be pleased to know that the ACC ( Accident Compensation Corporation ) covers tourist 's medical expenses and there are no maximums or co-pays . But you 'll still need insurance for illnesses . That 's more info than you asked for , but I hope it helps .
Both cities are really interesting destinations . The question to distinct between the two is whether or not you like tourist spots . Bruges is the more touristic city of the two . Personally I would go ofr Ghent and do a day trip to Bruges . But the other way around is perfectly possible . However if you really would like to escape the crowds , go to Lier or Hasselt . No tourists and really pearls to visit .
You basically have three options : Amtrak . Take the <URL> train from Vancouver to Seattle in about four hours . The big benefit here is that the train is n't nearly as affected by car traffic at the border , which can be very lengthy especially going into the US . This is because you actually clear US immigration at the train station in Vancouver before boarding the train . The down side to that is that you have to arrive earlier than you think , to be sure that you have time to clear immigration . Another down side is that it 's expensive . The cheapest ticket I could find was $ 41 each way , and for a more reasonable schedule you may pay more than $ 60 each way . These prices are likely to go up as the dates approach . Also note that you have to be careful when booking on Amtrak as most of the schedules they offer for this route are actually on buses . Bus . Several bus services ( <URL> , <URL> , and such ) offer service between Vancouver and Seattle , for as little as $ 15 each way . The down side is that you are subject to traffic jams at the border . While the bus companies generally factor border waits into their schedules , if it 's unusually busy , you might find yourself arriving later than you expected . A typical trip is also about four hours . Drive yourself . If you can cross the border at less busy hours , you can avoid the traffic jams and complete the trip in as little as two and a half hours ( assuming you are n't speeding ) . Late night on a weeknight would be such a time . And , gas is cheaper in the US than in Canada , ( even though it 's more expensive in Washington state than most other places in the US ) so you have an opportunity to fill up your car both on the way down and on the way back . If you have a NEXUS card you 'll skip most of the traffic at the border anyway . Aside from traffic at the border , the big down side is that you have to figure out where to park your car in Seattle .
Yes , Brazil requires visa applicants from the US to <URL> . They explicitly state that they do not accept applications by mail . No visa applications will be accepted by mail . When you finish filling out the electronic visa application form , print the application receipt , glue your picture on it , sign on the appropriate field and bring your application receipt form along with the other required documents to the Consulate . The <URL> is in Miami , so it would require one visit to Miami . You would not be able to apply in New York or any other consulate . Fortunately you do n't have to go back to Miami later to pick up your passport ; <URL> if you leave a postage paid envelope with them . In order to save you a second trip to Miami to pick up your passport , you may leave a prepaid self-addressed Priority Mail Express envelope from the USPS ( United States Postal Service , the Post Office ) for the return of your passport . The envelope must have a tracking number . The Consulate does not accept envelopes from other companies such as FEDEX , DHL or UPS .
It 's not very clear what you mean with " explore the area between " since you will spend all days in cities . Anyway , since I guess it just means how to move from Milano to Roma , you have possibly two ways : Trains : on that route you can take the FRECCIA ROSSA which is a somewhat new train ( for Italians standard ) with wifi on board , nice seats and so on . It is usually on time ( again , for Italians standard ) and can deliver you from Milano to Roma in 3 hours and 30 mins . If you plan to book at least one month in advance you may find conveniet prices . Check the <URL> site for all the info you need . The same train stops in Firenze too . Renting a car . Depending on your ticket prices you may end up spending less ( even tho , it 's not very easy to find out how much you are gon na spend with the car ) but remember that driving in the cities you are willing to visit is a total pain . Like a major pain , especially in Rome . The train sounds like your best bet . You do n't have to worry about driving in a country you do n't know ( I presume ) , find a park ( expensive in those cities ) , deal with traffic jam etc. . In Roma and Milano you have a somewhat nice metro/tube/underground that can bring you everywhere while in Firenze you can use buses ( even tho just walking in the city center will keep you busy enough for two days ) . Italy has an extensive net of trains and buses so if you want to visit the countryside you wo n't have any problem in doing so without a car . Anyway , I wish to add my unsolicited-subjective-opinion : 3 days in Roma and 2 in Firenze are n't even enough to see all the beauties those cities have to offer . I really think that , considering the time you will spend moving between cities , go to the airport etc , visiting the countryside would really be too much . If you really , really , really want to do so you may want to stay only one day in Milan and save that extra day for visitin around Firenze , which is very beautiful ( you may consider to visit San Gimignano or Siena or Monteriggioni or Lucca etc etc ) .
I 'd stop in Albury then Goulburn both about 3.5 hours drive and on the Hume Highway . I 've visited both and Albury has some nice parks and if you 're onto big things Goulburn has the Big Merino . *
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
Well , you can go old-shool : buy a decent road atlas . Usually there is a table with distances between larger cities ( either at the beginning or at the end ) - so using it you can have an idea about the scale . Moreover , on every decent road map you will have distances on the actual map - however these are usually between junctions etc. , so you will have to sum up quite a few of them to get the distance for a longer route .
Well you can probably look at the <URL> , as that 'll provide some good suggestions : Set your expectations clearly Read requests clearly , make sure they ' sound ' ok Do n't give out your personal information until you feel comfortable Inform your roommates , landlords , or neighbors Make sure your guest understands your rules and expectations Talk about the guidelines of the house Communicate and show respect and most importantly , it 's ok to say no . You should never feel pressured to take someone on .
Even in ferries where your coach stays on the top deck , you sometimes have to leave the vehicle . This is because in case of accident , the fear is that it will take too long to escape the vehicle and the risk of going down with the ferry is high . And it is not just for rogue waves , it is also for the ferry getting hit by ( or hitting ) other craft on the water . Not all short term ferry crossings will make you leave a top side parked vehicle , but those where you are more likely to sleep are more likely to get you out . As for vehicles parked under decks , they always have a ' leave the vehicle ' rule with an extra rule of not being allowed on the deck during the crossing . Anybody sleeping in a car or coach will be unable to escape in case of accident , more so when the ferry capsizes , as the vehicles might move against each other and the ' walls ' of the ferry , while those people in cabins will have difficulties but do stand a chance to get out . Most ferries also keep the crew off those decks , but for a security check at regular ( or iregular ) intervalls , staying away from the parked vehicles as much as possible . Keeping passengers from those decks makes for a much smaller chance of thieves breaking open cars parked there , which is an additional reason . No links , as this is basic knowledge , added to by talking with friends ( and chance meeting with crew ) who work on ferries , ranging from the local cross shipping canal one to the Inter Island ferry , New Zealand , where I was allowed to accompany one of the staff on a round of the car and train deck .
You have several choices : You currently have subway from the airport which will make life easier . But still , depending on the time you arrive to Lisbon and how old the kids are I would or not risk go downtown . The subway can be very crowded at rush hour . If you have a stroller I would only consider it if it 's not rush hour . People are kind and will almost for sure help , but it can be painful and you have to change at least once . Options Go to " <URL> " . It 's not a historically iconic part of the city but it 's 3 subway stations away from the airport . It ´ s a new and nice area , built specially for Expo 98 , with lot 's of gardens , Ocenario , a cable car , several restaurants , near to Tagus river . You can either walk a bit , use the cable car and enjoy the scenary or just relax in one of the gardens or a cafe . You can go to " Parque das Nações " and visit <URL> ( <URL> ) . It 's worth it and kids love it . ( Ocenário is the biggest aquarium in Europe and the second in the World ) . Go downtown ( Option 1 ) . It 's a bit more tricky . You have change once between subway lines and it will take you aprox 30 min . You can get out in Rossio and walk to Terreiro do Paço . There you will be able to see the castle ( in the Hill ) , see Lisbon architecture and urbanism ( this area was built by Marques de Pombal , after the 1775 earthquake ) . Go dowtown ( option 2 ) . Get out in Rossio and find " <URL> " You get the tram here and go up the hill . When you arrive you will be near " <URL> " one of the typical neighbourhoods of Lisbon and " <URL> " with a <URL> over Lisbon and to the Castle . Go downtown ( option 3 ) . Instead of going to to Rossio go do " Marquês " by subway ( again , it will take you aprox 30 min . to arrive ) . From there you can walk down " Avenida da Liberdade " to Rossio . If you look back when starting , you will see the beautifull " <URL> " . Avenida da Liberdade is considered one of the most luxurious avenues in the world . When arriving to Rossio do n't forget to drink the :) world famous " <URL> " . Near by you can find " <URL> " , currently an association and a restaurant . Before a Palace . You can go in a see the architecture . It 's a very beautifull and unexpected place ( nice for a quick visit ) . If you just want to relax a bit and get away from the aiport you can do it also in " <URL> " . It 's easy to arrive by subway and you can do a bit of tourism sitted in a garden bench . It has a playground with swings for kids . It 's not an amazing " must visit " area . It 's just nice to relax for a while and it has its part of history . Alameda was built during " <URL> " when there was a dictatorship in Portugal . In one side you can see " fonte luminosa " an imponent fountain ( recently repaired ) . In the other side there is " Técnico " one of the best portuguese universities . There is also a Theater in the middle called " Império " ( Empire - iconic name , like the architecture of the fountain , to show Portugal a great country - regime propaganda ) . Currently " Imperio " is a church from " Igreja Universal do Reino de Deus " . These are all built with the same kind of architecture . ( Note : if you want to eat , I would advise you to visit " Cervejaria Imperio " under the Theater . It used to have one of the best stakes of Lisbon . It 's not what it used to be but it 's still a very nice place to go and not expensive if you have the buffet lunch . ) Another alternative may be going to " <URL> " It 's a small farm in the city with several farm animals ( horses , donkeys , sheep , chickens , etc ) specially made for kids . They often have activities like baking bread , etc. ( but you have to enroll for these ) . It 's a nice place , it 's free ( you can just walk in ) and it 's near the airport ( you can get there by <URL> also , it 's 4 stations away from the airport ) . It 's usually open from 10h to 19h except monday ( closed ) . Additional Resources <URL> of the Lisbon subway system . You can easily find the metioned stations above . For a quick reference : Aeroporto in the red line is the airport station . Baixa-chiado or Rossio gives you direct access down-town . Terreiro do Passo also leaves you downtown and near the river .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
To start with , you should ask the company before you pay . On the other hand , it really depends which area of the world you are going to . Law and customs are quite different in different areas of the world . Whereas in the western countries I would expect the operator to have some basic level of insurance cover for accidents , I would expect exactly the opposite in most of the developing countries . You still should double check with the company ( guide ) to make sure that the level of cover is satisfactory for you .
Yellowstone National Park wo n't be open on Easter , other than the road from Mammoth to the northeast entrance . Yellowstone 's winter season winds down in early March and the interior roads do n't open until mid to late April . So Easter is not really a good time to go . Hotels and campgrounds do n't start opening until the first of May .
I do n't see any reason why you would n't be able to . Links w.r.t the subject : <URL> <URL> <URL> Generally speaking strollers during rush hour are annoying because they take up too much space and one has to be careful around them so not to hurt your child but noone will say anything to you if you bring it on .
end question
start question
Can I ( a citizen of Russia ) visit Ukraine without invitation , but with copies of tickets instead ?
The decision of accepting or not accepting your entry to Ukraine is made exclusively by frontier guard of Ukraine . Notice of Ukrainian Embassy in RF clearly <URL> that : Решение на пропуск граждан Российской Федерации будут приниматься по результатам контроля второй линии . В первую очередь внимание будет обращаться на мужчин крепкого телосложения , следующих в Украину в одиночку или в составе небольших групп . Decision about admission of Russian citizens across the border will be made considering the result of 2nd line control . So what is the 2nd line control in practice ? To learn that we should address <URL> " About border control " . Paragraph 9 of this law concludes : Procedure of 2nd line control is determined by the results of 1st line control . ... This procedure can include : Determination of departure and destination points of the traveler , purpose of travel and the conditions of stay . Additional documents as well as interview can be demanded if necessary . Determination of sufficiency of funds during the period of stay including return ticket or transit ticket to third-party country or ability to receive additional funding legally on the territory of Ukraine . ... As one can see invitation fully complies to the first point of these requirements and can be claimed by the border officer . So your entry ( or rejection of entry ) is completely up to you : your consciousness , self-confidence and behavior on the border , but nevertheless invitation letter is highly appreciated .
You 're unlikely to get a definitive answer to this question , since the exact internal visa criteria are not published . So take all advice you get with a grain of salt . So . Most countries do indeed treat multiple-entry status as an optional bonus of sorts : if you 're borderline , instead of rejecting the application outright , you 'll get a single entry instead . My understanding is that the EU does this as well , but it would not hurt to ask the embassy before applying . That said , if you 're only a casual tourist and/or a first-time visitor , you 're unlikely to get a multiple entry as your first visa . Providing an itinerary that requires you to depart and re-enter Schengen ( eg . Paris-London-Paris ) , preferably with some of proof that you really are going to do something legitimate ( letters from business partners , conference registration , etc ) , may help .
Having a UK indefinite leave to remain has nothing to do in this case , only the passport you have determines if you need a Schengen visa or not and since you have a South African passport you 'll need to apply for a Schengen visa in advance . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Take two suitcases . You will ( probably ) get charged extra for the overweight bag , and if it 's too overweight they wo n't accept it at all . And you will pay again on the return . Assuming you are going on vacation , you will most likely buy something and need a way to carry it home . yes ? One overweight , stuffed to capacity case wo n't work . Note that a completely empty case is often a problem too - it 's so light it does n't go through the baggage system well and can get blown off carts when outside .
There is a map which shows all destinations which can be reached from a city at <URL> .
<URL> , the price starts to skyrocket 30 days before the departure date . Quoting it , [ Within 29 days ] the increase began to accelerate and once you were within 14 days the fares really shot up dramatically . Their graph :
Flights on UIA ( PS ) from TBS land at terminal D. Flights on BA to LHR depart from terminal D. PS and BA do have an interlining agreement * , so it should be possible to buy this as a single ticket . As stated by Roman R , the airport provides <URL> information which shows only a security control for transferring passengers and a transfer desk to collect onward boarding passes . BA also provide a <URL> and in most cases it is possible to use a mobile boarding pass . Alternatively it may be possible to check in online and print the BA boarding pass in advance . * Although expertflyer says BA and PS have an e-ticket interlining agreement with each other , I ca n't actually bring up any ticket other than YY coded ones . ( ps . this is/was the only BA tagged question with no answer ! )
Short summary of the caveats/issues mentioned thus far in the comments and answers : Individual checked item and overall baggage weight limits . Individual checked item and overall baggage dimension &amp; volume limits . Costs might be higher than they appear : Airline costs per extra luggage item may rise with the number of items . General charge for having extra baggage . The airline might not actually mean what their website says . Handling all those pieces of luggage at the airport . Transporting the luggage to and from the airport : Another person 's help may be necessary . A larger vehicle may be necessary . Customs : Need to declare and prove you 're moving to another country and transporting your personal affects . The need for 10 suitable containers for luggage ; if not suitcases , then need to check whether the airline is willing to carry cardboard boxes , thick garbage-style plastic bags etc. . Baggage might get wet ( <URL> )
As far as I know , Skyteam has the same rules as pretty much every other airline or alliance : the miles for each ticket go to the person who actually uses that ticket to fly , provided they are registered in the program . It makes no difference who paid . In your example , let 's say the trip is 1000 miles long . No matter who pays , if you both register , and you both fly , then each of you gets 1000 miles . If you register and your friend does not , you get 1000 miles and your friend gets nothing . See how it works ? There is no way for you to earn miles for the ticket used by your friend , or vice versa . Note that if possible , you should register for the miles program before the trip , and add your frequent flyer numbers to the ticket . While it is usually possible to claim the miles retroactively , the process is less convenient .
Yes , Switzerland is part of the Schengen area , so you will have no trouble traveling there , provided you remain within <URL> . You will still see border checkpoints for commercial traffic , as Switzerland is not part of the EEA , but you should not be affected .
Other answers have given some lists , and talked about the definitional problems , but they do n't seem to have anything like an ontology . <URL> is a large database of geographic names with relations between them . It 's not always easy to get all the data from the website ... you might need to download the database and write your own programs to access it . For example searching for " Hispaniola " finds the island and shows that it 's shared between Haiti and DR , but I ca n't see how to find the link in the other direction ( i.e. , DR is situated on Hispaniola ) .
If you have some specific plan and are not moving constantly , consider booking specific trains directly . This will definitely be cheaper than renting a car for several weeks and will probably be cheaper than an Eurail pass as well . You can read more about elsewhere on this site or on <URL> but since many trains have restrictions for Eurail pass holders , they do n't provide as much flexibility as they used to , especially in France . An important factor is whether you are traveling alone or not . With a group , traveling by car can be cheaper but if you are alone it 's likely to be much more expensive . Depending on where you come from , you might find petrol to be quite expensive ( less than in the UK or the Netherlands , though ) and you have to remember that most motorways are toll roads ( crossing France East-West will cost you about 60 $ toll , that 's excluding petrol and any other cost for the car ) . If you need to cover long distances ( say go from Paris to the South of France ) , trains are also likely to be faster and more comfortable so the car 's main advantage is really flexibility . Regarding snow , I do n't think it should be a big concern , certainly for Normandy or most of the South and West of France . Unfortunately , I think most rental cars will not be fitted with winter tires so if you are unlucky and there are a couple of snowy days in December , the best solution would be to " sit them out " wherever you are and just delay the next step of your trip for a day or two . Driving with tire chains is only ever necessary in mountainous area when there is a layer of snow on the road , which is almost never the case for long on main roads ( besides , you ca n't drive fast with tire chains so it 's a last resort to reach some isolated places , not something you would realistically do on a long trip ) . If anything , ice or " freezing rain " is more often a problem than snow . Finally , Normandy as a whole is n't a rural area at all . There are relatively large cities with heavy industry and decent connections to Paris by train . At the same time , if you want to visit the rural or coastal parts of Normandy , a car would certainly be useful and give you a lot more flexibility .
Probably not ( but it does not hurt to ask ) . RyanAir as actually a Q/A section that answers the question " can i book a seat for my luggage " . If taken verbatim this seems to apply almost exclusively to musical instruments , you would need to ask if your CP30 falls under those exceptions . However they give maximum dimensions , so if your robot exceeds those you already have your answer . From <URL> . Sporting or musical equipment including but not limited to large fishing rods , golf clubs , bikes * ( bikes have a weight limit of 30 kilos ) , scooters , fencing equipment , boules , pole vaults , javelin , surfboards , bodyboards , snowboards and skis and large musical instruments including but not limited to harps , double bass and drums are inherently unsuitable for carriage by airlines operating fast turnarounds such as Ryanair . However , these items may be carried in the hold of the aircraft in addition to your personal checked baggage allowance up to a limit of 20 kilos per item . Fees apply , click here for details . Any sporting and musical item weighing over the 20 kilos allowance will be charged for the excess at the applicable excess baggage rate per kilo . Bicycles - MUST be contained in a protective box or protective bike bag in order to be accepted for travel . Electric bicycles can not be transported by plane . Smaller musical items such as a guitar , violin or viola which exceed our cabin baggage dimensions may be carried in the cabin if a seat for it has been reserved and the appropriate fare paid . There is no checked or cabin baggage allowance associated with the purchase of an extra seat . To book an extra seat for an item the word " ITEM SEAT " must be entered as the surname and " EXTRA " must be entered at the first name . EXTRA ITEM SEAT will then be displayed on the reservation and online boarding pass . The accompanying passenger 's travel document details must be entered during the online check - in process . Reserved seating in emergency rows 1,16 and 17 may not be purchased if you have purchased an extra seat for item/comfort . For health and safety reasons Ryanair does not accept for carriage any individual item exceeding 32 kilos or with combined dimensions of more than 81cms ( height ) , 119cms ( width ) and 119cms ( depth ) . This weight limit does not apply to mobility equipment .
None of it is particularly scenic . I 've bussed most of those routes , and for the most part - especially on the plains , it 's fairly standard . The BA to Puerto Madryn was like 20 hours . It was striaght and smooth and a very easy bus ride . Most of it is dull though , flat and ordinary , but you can bus overnight and it 's not too bad . I 'd suggest Puerto Madryn to El Calafate by bus as it 's still initially flat , but then as you get closer you get more into the foothills and mountains of Patagonia . It 's a long way down though , and takes several days to get back to Mendoza , so perhaps at that point fly . If , however , you would consider Santiago , or can get a cheap flight to Santiago , the 8 hour bus ride between Mendoza and Santiago in Chile is spectacular - seriously spectacular ! Between Mendoza and Cordoba it 'd be easy and flattish , with more hilly stuff closer to Salta . I flew from BA to Iguazu , but I imagine it 'd be quite nice to see the landscape as it transitions to rainforest . In the end it 'll come down to time , comfort and money . The buses in Argentina are supremely comfortable - often for just a few dollars more you can get a lie-down bed in full-cama / cama-suite class , instead of the tilty-seat semi-cama . Also note that all Aerolineas Argentina flights hub-and-spoke through BA , so from say , El Calafate to Mendoza , you 'll be flying back to BA and then out again to Mendoza . Costs add up . I flew my first couple of legs , then discovered I really enjoyed the bus trips and had the time for them , so continued to bus from then on , all the way up to Colombia .
There are no requirements to provide proof of onward travel when entering the Schengen area . What you do need is adequate ' means of subsistence ' both for the intended period of stay and for onward travel out of the Schengen area . Each Schengen country has their own guidelines when it comes to the required amount of money . Iceland operates with a guideline of 4,000 krona per day , meaning that you with 360,000 krona or about US$ 2,800 have enough money for the allowed 90 days . Even if you need additional money to buy a return ticket , you are well beyond the required amount if you dispose of US$ 25,000 .
The official Source of Truth ( tm ) : <URL> In particular : <URL> Your registered partner and extended family - siblings , cousins , aunts , uncles , and so on -- can ask the authorities in an EU country to officially recognise them as family members of an EU national . If they obtain recognition , they wo n't need a visa to enter that country -- they will receive the same treatment as your spouse , parents and children . EU countries do not have to recognise registered partners and extended family as your family members but they do at least have to consider the request . To avoid problems , contact the consulate or embassy of the country to which you are travelling well in advance to find out which documents your non-EU family member will be asked to present at the border . This will help to avoid unpleasant situations such as non-EU family members being refused entry because they do not have the required documents . Be aware that some countries may fail to apply EU law correctly and your non-EU family members may be denied some of their rights , as described here . In other words , if your wife is recognized as the spouse of an EU citizen and you are resident in the EU , she can indeed enter without a visa . If you are not resident in the EU , she will require a EU visa ( Schengen visa if you 're a Schengen country citizen ) , but this ( by law ) must be free and granted essentially automatically , all you need to prove is that you are married . But you 'd be well advised to sort this out in advance , and for a short tourist stay of less than 60 days , I do n't really see much advantage over <URL> .
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
Unfortunately , Dividend Miles is a " dead-end " program . The <URL> turns up nothing , and even a <URL> is now impossible . Some of this reflects general cutbacks in frequent flyer programs and some of it reflects the pending merger with American Airlines . Dividend Miles will almost certainly be merged into the much larger AAdvantage program , or into a new successor program , so there is no point to adding new partnerships . I do advise you , however , to keep the account active until you can redeem from it . If you participate in AAdvantage , these miles will be transferred or converted to that account within the next 12 -- 18 months ( if the Delta/Northwest and United/Continental mergers can be cited as precedent ) . If you do n't regularly fly OneWorld and have not been consolidating your miles in another OneWorld program , this could be the one to keep accruing to until you can spend them on something useful . <URL> in your Dividend Miles account will refresh your activity date , no matter how small . Charging $ 1 on your DM credit card to earn one mile would be good enough , or getting 6 issues of Cigar Aficionado for 400 miles would be good enough . And there are many <URL> ( RDMs ) . You do not specify how long you have before expiration , but let us assume it is less than the 60 days you should allow for credit from a program partner . Fortunately , you can still <URL> miles , which will reset your activity counter within a day . Miles to purchase cost $ 0.035 per mile plus 7.5 % tax ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 37.63 . Miles to share with a friend or family member cost $ 0.01 per mile 7.5 % tax and a $ 30 processing fee per transaction ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 40.75 . You can reactivate the account . The fee for doing so is a sliding scale based on the mileage balance : $ 10 for 1 -- 4,999 miles , $ 50 for 5,000 -- 19,999 miles , <URL> . There is no fee to donate miles . The minimum number to donate is 1000 . If you do not have an AAdvantage account and truly do not foresee ever needing one ( e.g. you accrue your OneWorld miles to a different program ) , it would be reasonable to drain the account by buying magazines and newspapers -- or gifting them to a friend , school , library , etc. -- or by donating them . But do drain it ; there is no point to letting miles expire , as they are then of no use to anyone .
You could try contacting Luhambo tours , who do daily tours leaving from Cape Town . Small groups with specialised wine guides . +27 21 551 04 67 . If you want to do it yourself , maps , information on vineyards that receive and accommodate visitors and advice on getting to them are all available from the very helpful people at the <URL> in Stellenbosch . Also have a look at Wikitravel 's page on the <URL> . It mentions several other tour companies that include half-day and single day tours . Quite a range of prices too ! It also lists down the bottom the famous wine estates of the region , including their opening times and contact details .
In this case , first , you want a live tube map with Google maps underneath . <URL> ( yes , those are the trains moving on the map ! ) As you can now clearly , see , this gives you a couple of options - the District Line ( Green ) and the Central Line ( Red ) . Upminster ( end of the District line ) is your closest stop there.There is a parking lot right next to the tube station , with a couple of hundred parks . The Google Maps satellite view shows that during the day even , this is n't totally full . Epping ( end of the Central Line ) is your second option . This is just near the junction of the M25 and the M11 . It too , has a big parking area next to the station . The downside here is that on Google Maps , it 's showing as completely full . Of course , you ca n't know for sure what time of day these images were taken . Personally I 'd go for the Epping one if you 're getting in early - the District line is one Londoners will not usually trust for reliability , and if you 're early enough you wo n't have to worry about the car park filling up too much . It 's also conveniently close to your M11 turn-off junction .
end question
start question
Are visitors allowed to enroll in academies ( such as a flight training school ) in the US under the B1 visa ?
Generally no , especially if you 're asking about academic studies : Is it permissible to enroll in school while in B-1 / B-2 status ? No , it is not . The regulations , at 8 CFR 214.2 ( b ) ( 7 ) , specifically prohibit study in the United States while in B-1 or B-2 status . Before enrolling in classes , individuals who are in B-1 or B-2 status must first acquire F-1 ( academic student ) or M-1 ( vocational student ) status . Enrolling in classes while in B-1 / B-2 status will result in a status violation . Individuals in B-1 or B-2 status , who have violated their nonimmigrant status by enrolling in classes , are not eligible to extend their B status or change to F-1 or M-1 status . These regulations provide no exceptions . <URL> However , allegedly there is a way kind of study legally provided that the course is short , limited to no more than 18 hours a week , and recreational . Requirements to Study on the B Visa Your course of study must be less than 18 hours per week . You must be studying for recreational purposes , not for academic credit . Evidence of sufficient funds to pay for all expected expenses for the duration of your visit . <URL>
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
Ceuta and Melilla are administered by Spain ( though Morocco disputes their sovereignty over the cities ) . Both countries maintain border controls at the borders and Spain has built border fences around both cities . Residents of the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador have a special local border crossing scheme whereby <URL> ( but they can not enter mainland Spain or the rest of the Schengen area ) . Moroccan nationals living in other provinces can obtain a limited territorial validity visa from Spain for those cities only . ( b ) The specific arrangements for visa exemptions for local border traffic between Ceuta and Melilla and the Moroccan provinces of Tetuan and Nador shall continue to apply . ( c ) Moroccan nationals who are not resident in the provinces of Tetuan or Nador and who wish to enter the territory of the towns of Ceuta and Melilla exclusively shall remain subject to the visa requirement . The validity of these visas shall be limited to these two towns and may permit multiple entries and exits ( " visado limitado múltiple " ) in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 ( 3 ) and Article 11 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 1990 Convention . Notably , while the cities are part of the Schengen area , there are passport checks upon departure by air or ferry , in order to ensure that Moroccan visitors without visas and illegal immigrants can not migrate to Europe or elsewhere . ( e ) Pursuant to its national law and in order to verify whether passengers still satisfy the conditions laid down in Article 5 of the 1990 Convention on the basis which they were authorised to enter national territory upon passport control at the external border , Spain shall maintain checks ( on identity and documents ) on sea and air connections departing from Ceuta and Melilla and having as their sole destination any other place on Spanish territory . To the same end , Spain shall maintain checks on internal flights and on regular ferry connections departing from the towns of Ceuta and Melilla to a destination in another State party to the Convention . There 's no provision that I can find for Tunisian nationals , so it appears that <URL> .
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
The longest non-stop ( by <URL> source ) flight was Newark to Singapore on Singapore Airlines flight SQ21 which is and 18 hour 50 minute flight of some 15,345 km . However , as of November 2013 , Singapore Airlines has discontinued this route . However for single flight number , allowing stopover , things are hard to research . Not many websites list tables of distances by flight number . So I resorted to thinking of a route and then looking on the airline websites to see if it was one flight number or split over two flight numbers . I suspect the longest route that could be a single flight number and have a stopover would be Northern Europe to Australia . So I searched on several airlines for flights . I found a few contenders ( but no definitive answers ) : NZ1 and NZ38 , both on Air New Zealand fly London to Auckland with a stop in Hong Kong in 26 hours and 40 minutes . A distance of 18,463 km . QF320 on Qantas and BA15 on British Airways fly London to Sydney with a stopover in Singapore . They both take 22 hours and 50 minutes . QF1 on Qantas goes from Sydney to London , again stopping in Singapore and is 23 hours and 25 minutes .
To travel under VWP , travel purpose must be permitted on a visitor ( B ) visa , as mentioned as the first point in the <URL> . This means , your ESTA is basically a simplified B1/B2 visa , same rules apply , the difference is the process only . Now , checking the rules for both <URL> and <URL> visas lists nothing about your specific " writing " purpose , but indeed it does allow you to travel for " holidays " purposes , which is the main purpose of your travel as you mentioned . The only thing that was mentioned a few times with emphasis is " getting paid from a US based entity " , which is totally prohibited for holders of B visas , that means also prohibited for people on ESTA , and you explicitly mentioned that you are not going to make money , so we can safely assume that you will be fine doing your writing in your free time while you are on a " vacation " in the US . The closest thing I could find in the rules that might be similar to your situation was " researching " , and the rules allow that : Independent research , no salary/income from a U.S. based source , or benefit to U.S. institution . Conclusion : There is nothing in the rules explicitly prohibits you from writing while you are on a vacation in the US as long as you are not making money out of it from a US based entity . So , feel free to write .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
Visitors to Jamaica must have a yellow fever vaccination ( and accompanying proof ) if they 've arriving from a yellow fever prone country . Other than that there are plenty of recommended vaccinations but none required . <URL> <URL>
Contact in Japan : Telephone : email : web-site : <URL>
I 'm Chris from Rome2Rio , if you do n't mind sharing your experience we 'd be keen to find out which TGV routes and European routes in general you have found are missing from Rome2Rio results . This would help us review and improve our results in future . If you prefer you can send the details to feedback@rome2rio.com If you are looking for alternatives to Rome2Rio you could also try <URL> along with the Voyage SCNF site already mentioned . Also there are a couple more German focused sites with similar concepts GoEuro and <URL> in the future they may expand to feature other European countries in their data . Some other sites that you may already be aware of that I 'd recommend would be Bahn a comprehensive schedule planner along with Seat 61 which has good references and guides to travelling by train in Europe . There also several nice sites using the Rome2Rio API , but as it is generally the same dataset as Rome2Rio you may not be as interested in those :)
Generally no , especially if you 're asking about academic studies : Is it permissible to enroll in school while in B-1 / B-2 status ? No , it is not . The regulations , at 8 CFR 214.2 ( b ) ( 7 ) , specifically prohibit study in the United States while in B-1 or B-2 status . Before enrolling in classes , individuals who are in B-1 or B-2 status must first acquire F-1 ( academic student ) or M-1 ( vocational student ) status . Enrolling in classes while in B-1 / B-2 status will result in a status violation . Individuals in B-1 or B-2 status , who have violated their nonimmigrant status by enrolling in classes , are not eligible to extend their B status or change to F-1 or M-1 status . These regulations provide no exceptions . <URL> However , allegedly there is a way kind of study legally provided that the course is short , limited to no more than 18 hours a week , and recreational . Requirements to Study on the B Visa Your course of study must be less than 18 hours per week . You must be studying for recreational purposes , not for academic credit . Evidence of sufficient funds to pay for all expected expenses for the duration of your visit . <URL>
No , driving for women in Saudi Arabia is not allowed regardless of the nationality . What bothers me is , there is no clear rule in Saudi regarding driving for women , it is just not allowed ! someone came up with this idea years ago and this idea still rules ! that 's why the police gets confused when they have a case about this , they do not know what to do ! anyway things are heading to the right direction and hopefully soon this non-sense will stop and everyone can drive . FYI , women who live in small villages in the desert do drive !
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
Where you 're from is likely irrelevant . Overstaying is overstaying , you 're not going to get treated more harshly or kindly because of who your president/king/prime minister is . There 's a great piece " <URL> " that is relevant to this . Consequences of overstaying This could result in a : no consequence - if you 're lucky , and this will depend greatly on who you deal with and what mood they 're in . fine - the smallest and easiest problem - although it can be expensive , it 's solvable with money . Have heard of 700 Euro fines for being 20 days over . record - they may put something on your personal record for the Schengen countries , making it hard to get a visa in future . ban on entry - you may be banned for 1-3 years ( usual length of time ) . deportation - very bad to have on your record , can affect all other travel to non-Schengen countries as well . In terms of some countries being more strict , if you are ' banned ' , you 're more likely to get back in by applying to one of the countries only recently admitted to the area . They 're allegedly more likely to approve ( presumably either lack of records , or for touristic purposes ) . If you 're then denied further re-entry , you can at best try to appeal for a visa - say for example , on grounds of compassion . For more information , read about <URL> .
I use Boingo for accessing private wifi at airports and cafes that you would otherwise have to pay for . It is about $ 10 per month and works in many countries including Latvia . I did a search for hotspots at <URL> and they seems to mostly be in Riga . So if you are staying there great , but if you are going out in the countryside not great . If you want cell phone data then I have just bought local USB modem device for about $ 50 and SIM card with local data plan . I have done this in Boliva , Paraguay and Chile , have n't tried in Latvia but I assume they have them there too . Finally when I travel in less developed countries there are always lots of internet cafes and they will often let you connect your laptop direct to their internet via a cable if you pay them a small fee . This gives great speed and cost of about $ 1 per hour . I am not sure where Latvia is on the internet development scale so you will have to scope this idea out on the ground .
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
One option would be to use a pay-as-you-go " plan " with either a long validity of the credit when you top up a lot , or a low monthly fee . The <URL> , for example , lists a $ 3/month Pay-as-you-go choice that includes a few minutes/month .
end question
start question
Can I use Google Maps traffic information to estimate driving time for a specific date/time ?
Yes ! Google maps recently added the possibility of doing exactly this ! I noticed it for the first time today . When you query the route for a specific destination a new option shows up above the possible routes which allows you to choose to depart at a particular time or arrive at a particular time . In the later case it suggests the time that you should leave . The length of the drive is given as a range of times which can , admittedly , be pretty broad . I have <URL> , but it has not received an answer as of yet .
TL ; DR - You can renew the passport whenever you like . In 2011 I held a 5-year passport that was due to expire in -- IIRC -- 2013 . I was still enrolled at university at the time , which made me temporarily exempt from military service . Since males of the appropriate age need approval ( a specific form ) from the military commissariat for an international passport , and as I had a PhD position lined up abroad , I figured it would be easier to renew my passport while I was still exempt from military service , rather than having to face the hassle of doing this in the middle of my PhD program , no longer having the relevant exemption . To answer the question , I had zero problems getting a new passport , valid for 10 years , while there was still 2 years left on my old one . The lady at the issuing office was a bit surprised , but I simply told her , that I 've got a position abroad and would like to avoid the inconvenience of renewing a passport from abroad .
<URL> details these rules and the needed times . From this , we can learn the minimum connecting time depends on the terminal you arrive/leave and it varies from 1h10 to 2h . And yes , you will need to go through customs and claim your luggage , and then check your luggage again . As for the Vladivostok airport ( VVO ) rule you mention , unless I missed something , it says you should fill a migration card " at the entrance to the Russian Federation " , not specifically at this airport , so in your case it will most likely happen at Moscow airport ( SVO )
This is a great question which probably applies to everyone . The obvious thing is to start with a minimal set of keys . Only take those you absolutely need to get back in . Although they are not needed everyday , I do keep with me almost at all times . The reasoning is that they are required to get home , just like a passport , only the latter must be used first . If the keys were stolen or lost , it would be more than troublesome to get back in . In places with a hotel safe , you can keep them in there with your passport instead but I find the best is to keep habits . If you always carry a keychain at time , then you can easily keep doing so abroad .
Hotel pricing in Japan is generally highly seasonal , and many hotels go so far as to publish a " room rate calendar " ( 客室料金カレンダー ) that shows exactly how prices vary through the year . Disney has a <URL> , but I 'll use this rather more typical image from the <URL> in Kyushu to illustrate : To parse that , 月 means month ( 6月 = June , 7月 = July , etc ) , and prices are ranked by color so that yellow ( priciest ) > green > light pink > orange > dark blue > dark pink > light blue > cyan ( cheapest ) ; and no , that order does n't make a whole lot of sense . ( Adding in letter codes , eg . <URL> , is pretty common too . ) A few trends are clear : August is the most expensive month , particularly around Obon ( the yellow days ) , with late July not far behind . This is summer holiday season , when families are traveling . The week around New Year 's Day ( late Dec/early Jan ) and Golden Week ( late April/early May ) are also very pricy . Saturdays ( 土 ) always cost more , often Fridays as well ( although not for this particular chain ) . Winter weekdays are cheapest . This is , I 'd posit , the " standard " pricing pattern for hotels and ryokan in tourist-heavy destinations . Business hotels often reverse this to some extent , with cheaper weekend deals . There can be significant deviations from the norm though : Western-style dynamic pricing is becoming more and more common , especially for identikit city center business hotels that can really only compete on price . Tourist hotels tend to go more for " packages " including dinner and drinks and hot spring passes and whatnot . For both , <URL> is the only English-language website I know of where you can reliably find these deals , its main ( Japanese-only ) competitor being <URL> . Places famous for cherry blossoms ( eg . Kyoto and surroundings ) get an extra high season in late March or so . Ski resorts obviously have their high season in winter ( but for these , too , New Year is super-peak ) . The very cheapest lodgings will have more or less flat pricing year-round , although love hotels etc will usually jack up Fri/Sat prices , and the cheapest rooms tend to sell out first at times of high demand .
Yes , assuming they issue you the Known Traveler Number ( KTN ) before you fly , you can add it to your reservation . As long as it 's at least 72 hours ( 3 days ) before the time of your flight , you can add the KTN to your reservation via Delta 's website . After that , you 'll need to call or visit an agent at the check-in desk . To do it on Delta 's website , go to the " Trip Details " page for your reservation ( accessible through " My Trips " from the Delta.com homepage ) and scroll down to the " SECURE FLIGHT PASSENGER &amp; CONTACT INFORMATION " section . If it 's not already expanded , click the " Open " button on this section to load it . <URL> Secure Flight Data Section of Delta.com Trip Details Page Here , you can enter your KTN in the " Known Traveler Number " field and click " Save " to add it to your reservation . And , of course , make sure that your gender and Date of Birth is correct , too . Note that upon subsequent visits to this page , the information for the passenger whose Delta account is currently logged in will be displayed , but the fields will appear blank for other passengers in the same reservation , even if the secure flight data has already been saved for those passengers . You can still enter in new information for other passengers , but the existing data for them will not be displayed for privacy reasons .
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
I 've done plenty of road tripping myself , all over North America , and I think I have some idea of what you want ... Back in the bad old days , before Google , a " map " was physically printed on paper , and there were entire books you could buy which had maps of various parts of the geography of a country , as well as a section showing the distances between various towns and cities . I hear they still exist . By knowing the distance you intend to travel , you can fairly well estimate how long it will take . Try this experiment : Drive from Montreal to Sherbrooke , at an off-peak time of day . Note the time you start and end , and the distance you travel . You should come up with approximately 90 minutes and 150 kilometers . If you check Google Maps , it will suggest a very similar time and distance . Knowing this , you may consider a rule of thumb that you can travel 100 kilometers in an hour on an autoroute ( or Interstate in the US ) . Let 's call it 60 miles , since the US is still a backward country that has n't quite adopted the metric system . This seems like a very good estimate , in my experience . Now , drive back to Montreal and this time , do n't use the autoroute . Use the smaller provincial highways and back roads . Again , you should come up with 150 kilometers , but this time it will take two and a half hours ! This suggests that you can estimate your overall speed on such roads at 60 km/h ( or 35 miles in the US ) . This also seems like a good estimate to me . Similarly you can figure out how much time it takes to get off the highway , fill your gas tank and get back on the highway ( maybe five minutes ; not long enough to worry about ) . You must be hungry after all that driving , so find yourself a diner ! Note the time you walk in the door , and the time you leave . Depending on how quickly you 're served and how quickly you eat , this may take you anywhere from 30 minutes to an hour . Repeat this at several other restaurants , and get a sense of how long it takes you to eat , how long it takes you overall at different types of restaurants , etc. . Crossing the border ( usually 5 to 60 minutes , depending on traffic ) . Not much more to be said about this . What remains to estimate is how much time you want to spend at various attractions . For this , you 'll first need to figure out what you might want to see and do . For instance , you might wish to drive the <URL> . You can do that in ... by our estimate above , just under an hour . But there are several places along the highway that you might want to stop and look at something . That might take you five minutes , or you might be inspired to stand there and watch a waterfall for hours . Only you know for sure . One thing I will advise you not to do is to plan your trip with strict adherence to a schedule . It sounds like you might be tempted to do this . On a road trip especially , you will often run into something that you want to stop and spend some time looking at , and if you feel rushed , then you might not do so , even if you actually had plenty of time . And even if you do run short on time , Quebec is not that far away ... If I were going to give you a nice rule of thumb , I would say to figure on 12 hours for your evening meal , sleeping , getting up and having breakfast . Then about one hour driving for every hour doing something " touristy " ... give or take . You might decide to stay a couple of days in some town , for instance . If you 're still not sure , find a couple of tourist attractions right in your city and visit them . See how long it takes . Most people never do this , which is unfortunate for them ...
You do not need to pass through emigration when leaving the US . Unlike in most countries , US airports do not have dedicated international areas . The airline staff will check your passport and collect any documents you are required to hand in when you leave the country . Thus , this will not affect your connection in MSP . If the itinerary is being offered as a single ticket , the airline clearly believes that most passengers will be able to make that connection . This seems quite feasible if both flights are from the same terminal at MSP ( very probable if it is the same airline ) . You 'll probably be checked into both flights at LAX and only have to get between gates at MSP . This can be accomplished <URL> within the same terminal ( less if you are really in a hurry ! ) . If you need to <URL> ( <URL> ) , this becomes much trickier . You 'll need to take a train ( runs every 10 minutes ) and than you will need to go through security again at the other end . I suspect that you will not need to change terminals . Note however , that if there is any delay in the inbound flight , even if you are able to race to the departure gate , the odds of your checked-in luggage making the transfer is not good . Also , keep in mind that any non-trivial delay will cause you to miss your connection . They will try rerouting you if you miss your connection because of a delay in the first flight . However , there is no way of knowing how long or convoluted that rerouting will be . You may easily lose a whole day . Consider how important not being delayed is to you . If it is critical , this may not be a chance you 're willing to take .
The Red MAX takes 44 minutes from Pioneer Square to the airport . Source : <URL> . So that 's 1.5 hrs . Security wait times you can predict from <URL> . Let 's put that to 20 minutes . Actually you need to get off the plane and get out . I 'd put that to another 20-30 minutes . We are at the 2.5 hrs mark . You need to wait for the Max , walk in the airport , your layover is a bit shorter because you need to be there by boarding and not leaving . So , you can make it to Moonstruck on Alder street , have a decent hot chocolate and then go back . Sightseeing , not so much . I certainly would rather than sitting at the airport . Moonstruck hot chocolate is one of the better ones on this coast , you need to go as far as Vancouver , BC to have better . ( Or if you have broader horizons , Eataly in New York is best . )
That 's entirely possible . Firstly , there are no trains . Seriously . Do n't bother trying to find them . In Argentina there 's one from Buenos Aires to Rosario , but the bus is cheaper AND faster . There are some tourist trains in North Argentina ( near Salta ) and yes , there is the train from Cusco in Peru to Aguas Calientes , but that 's about it . I 'll discuss in a north-bound trip , you could simply reverse that if you wished . Starting in Santiago ( most do n't go further south , but you may want to ) , you can head to the beach at Viña del Mar and the cool sea-side town of Valparaiso . Then most people would head north to either Iquique for beach ( 24 hours by bus ) on the coast , or inland to San Pedro de Atacama . I 'd recommend this , because you 're going to want to do the salt flats . You could go from Iquique to San Pedro as well ( via Calama ) . Take a couple of days in this cool desert town to do some activities ( see Craters of the Moon , Valley of Death and the like , do an astronomy tour etc ) and acclimatise to the altitude . It 's about 2400m , which is the start of where you need to acclimatise and from personal experience , please , do make sure you do this . The Salar de Uyuni salt flats tour is usually about 3-4 days , and is a must if you 're in the area . Seriously . You 'll end in Uyuni , Bolivia . From there you could check out the silver town of Potosi and the mines , or head straight to La Paz . You 'll want 2-3 days here to do the Death Road ( mountain bike the world 's most dangerous road ) and explore the city . Then you 'll catch a 5 hour bus to Puno in Peru , by Lake Titicaca . One day is enough here , really , but two if you want . Then bus up to Cusco , Peru . You 'll want 2 nights to acclimatise some more if you 've not done it , but book your tour to Machu Picchu and get ready for awesomeness . If you 're doing the Inca trail , it 'll take 4 days , or you could take one of the other hikes ( there are several ) or even just take the train to Aguas Caliente and go up in the morning . Arequipa is an overnight bus ride away from Cusco , and you can take 2-3 days doing an exploration tour of Colca Canyon and see the mighty condors . You could get out to the coast , but most head directly on to Lima . If your bus goes through Nazca early morning , hop out , go do a 30 min flight over the Nazca lines , and then head back to the bus station and catch a late morning bus to Lima . It 's about 24 hours from Arequipa to Lima , from memory . Lima is a nice , interesting city , but a lot of people claim they get bored after 2-3 days . Stay in the Miraflores area , really nice with a cliff view of the coast . Next for a great beach break , you could stop in Mancora on the north coast . Again , about 24 hours from Lima . Amazing beach town , spectacular weather , people did n't want to leave when I was there . You 're wanting to fly out , I assume , so you 'll either have to bus back to Lima , or maybe carry on up to the border and change buses , go to Quito in Ecuador , and fly out of there . Over all , you may not like some of the suggestions I 've given , or have better or different ideas , but 5 weeks is entirely possible . There 'll be a lot of busing , but you can fit it in .
The Minimum Connection Time between flights landing in Terminal 2 ( Lufthansa ) and flights departing from Terminal 1 ( Vueling ) is 45 minutes . Thus technically this is a valid connection . However valid connection does not mean that you will make your flight - it just means that the airlines will let you book such a connection when booked on the same ticket . If you are planning to book these two flights on the same ticket , then it 's potentially worth the risk . If you miss the outbound flight then it will be up to the airlines ( most likely Lufthansa ) to get you to your destination , either by moving you to a later Vueling flight , or more likely by putting you on one of their own flights to your destination . However , if you are considering booking these flights on separate tickets then your chances of something going wrong are very high . One of the reasons that MUC has such a low Minimum Connection Time is that they will make arrangements for getting people directly from inbound gate to outbound gate - especially in cases of delayed inbound flights ( eg , using vehicles that drive across the airport itself ) . If you are on multiple tickets then they will not know that you are connecting , and thus will not make any such arrangements for you . On separate tickets it is still possible that you will make your connecting flight , but personally I would never consider such a short connection . Your odds of missing the flight are too high , and if you do miss it you 'll likely have to purchase a new ticket to get yourself to your destination .
It turns out that Ortachala and Didube are not the only places to catch a bus or marshrutka in Tbilisi . It 's easier to find the departure times on the Internet when you know the names of the others . Here is the full info compiled from the official government published Tbilisi Guide tourist information handbook : By bus <URL> ( ორთაჭალა ) a.k.a Tbilisi Central Auto Station , a.k.a Central Bus Station , in the south of the city , not near a metro station . 11.30 22.30 <URL> ( დედაქალქკი ) Literally " Capital " , in the centre of the city near Station Square metro station . 10.00 13.00 16.00 00.00 ( midnight ) By marshrutka ( mini bus ) <URL> ( ოკრიბა ) In the north of the city near Didube metro station . 09.00 then hourly until 17.00 <URL> ( დედაქალქკი ) Literally " Capital " , in the centre of the city near Station Square metro station . 09.00 11.30 14.00 16.30 19.00 00.00 ( midnight ) References : <URL> <URL> <URL> ( for explaining the locations and names of the bus stations )
The only one I 'm aware of is United Airlines , on Channel 9 ; this appears to be disappearing rapidly as Continental did not have it . Radios are never permitted in flight . However , there are <URL> so if the flight had WiFi you might be able to listen through a computer . I have used the iOS app version of LiveATC to listen to traffic control using inflight wifi ; this only works over 10,000 feet when the wifi is on and you have to know the frequency that your cockpit crew happens to be on .
My wife is physician and she says : You should n't change your physician prescription times unless : you do it one or two hours per day ( i.e. you take 3 pills each 8 hours , so you can advance one hour the first pill , then take the second 8 or 9 hours later and the last one 8 hours later . . maximum 2 hours ) . you ask your physician and he approves the change . Of course , you can start adapting your schedule before starting your vacations .
When you enter one of the three micro-states , the Schengen 90 day clock pauses during your time there . It resumes when you exit the micro-state and reenter the Schengen zone . Also , you can not ' refresh ' your Schengen clock in the micro-states because they have local rules that act to prevent it . In San Marino for example , foreigners staying longer than 30 days must apply for a residence permit and these are not given to visitors . But indeed , each day in a micro-state is a day out of the zone and the 90/180 rule is affected accordingly . Problems will arise when the visitor ultimately leaves the zone and must undergo a Schengen exit inspection . At this point the person may be asked to prove that they are not an overstayer and the border guard will be entitled to see hard evidence in the form of official documentation . There was a case where an individual attempted to show that his mobile phone registered to a tower outside of the zone and this failed obviously : radio waves have no respect for nation borders but also one could mail the SIM card to a friend in a far away land , put in a phone where it registers to the tower and then mail it back . Apparently hotel receipts can be too easily forged to be successful as evidence . What the border guard will want to see is a passport stamp from the local constabulary . But the constabulary is under no obligation to issue one , so success is down to personal impact and articulation skills . Source : Question put directly to <URL> 6 June 2016 , ( <URL> ) . Your questions ... Also , according to the article , Andorra seems to do have immigration borders ... So , for example , if I am a US citizen , will going to Andorra , stop the Schengen visit Per the above , yes if you go to Andorra the Schengen clock is paused . ( meaning there will be an exit stamp on your passport ) ? In the normal case you will have no exit stamp and be unable to provide satisfactory evidence of your time in and out of the zone . As explained you can approach the local constabulary and TRY to get the entry and exit stamps you need .
No . An F-1 visa is valid for study . You can only use it to enter the US when you are properly enrolled at an authorized institution and they have indicated this status in the <URL> database . When you arrive at the port of entry , the officer will check the database and you may well be denied entry . If your nationality is such that you need a visa to transit the United States , you 'll need to apply for a new visa .
The validity of the license from a foreign country would be determined by that country . So if that country 's license becomes invalid when you leave the country or your residence permit expires you have no license to drive with in California . The <URL> is usually a translation of your actual driver 's license into many languages ( including English ) and needs to be accompanied by a government issued driver 's license .
With the exception of some hotels , some high-end ( tourist-focused ) retail , and many shops at the airport , the only currency used is Turkish Lira . Anywhere that does accept other currencies will do it at a relatively poor exchange rate , so even where it 's possible , I would n't recommend it . However Money Changers are pretty much omnipresent in Istanbul - at least in the tourist focused areas . It 's basically impossible to turn around and not see more than one . These will happily change your Euro or US Dollars into Turkish Lira . Be careful when changing money as there are some scams . For example , when I was there a few weeks ago the exchange rate was around 2.44 Lira to the US$ , however one money changer I noticed was offering 2.244 , presumably hoping people would n't notice the difference ...
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
end question
start question
Should I buy the Suica & N'EX package to go from Narita to Tokyo ?
First question : how much credit ? In the upper part of the page it says it 's ¥ 1500 , but the " See how much you save ! " figure says " Includes a ¥ 500 deposit " . The deposit is the amount that is not credit - " deposit " means that you pay it and get it back when you return the card . So there 's ¥ 1500 of credit . I think it 's not worthy for me , am I right ? I 'd say that a 110 yen fare difference should not be the reason to decide one way or another ; at least for the first trip inside Japan and when carrying luggage , I 'd choose the one that has the easiest connection . Using Hyperdia I found out that to go to my hotel in Chuo-Ku ( Kodemmacho station ) would cost only ¥ 1390 . Am I doing something wrong ? No , it loooks right , and <URL> agrees . It has even cheaper connections , but those take longer and/or include walking .
U.S. citizens can visit Japan without a visa anyway , so there 's certainly no need to get one for transiting . Regarding the second part of your question , you do n't have to pass through immigration at Narita on an international-to-international connection . From <URL> : When connecting between international flights , passengers are not required to undergo Immigration procedures if they are staying in the departure area ( airside ) until their next flight . The page linked above also contains instructions for how to transit from one international flight at Narita to another with instructions specific to each of Narita 's three terminals . You should probably figure out which terminals your arriving and departing flights will likely use and read through that guide . In short , though , the transfer process is this : After exiting the aircraft , follow the signs for " international transfer . " Go through transfer security . This will be similar to the normal security checks you go through to board a flight , though you might want to look up the specific rules for what Japan allows when passing through security checks , as these may differ somewhat from the U.S. Note that you will need to show a boarding pass or a ticket for your onward flight in order to pass through transfer security . If you do n't already have a boarding pass for your connecting flight , go to one of the transfer desks for your airline to check in and get it . If your departing flight leaves from a different terminal than where you arrived , you 'll need to take a shuttle bus to your departing terminal . The timetables for these busses can be accessed via the link above . These busses are specifically for transit passengers and will depart and arrive inside the airside portion of the terminals , so you will not need to pass through immigration or security again after getting off the bus . Proceed to your departure gate .
The Piedmont region in <URL> is pretty close to central Europe .
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
Yes , you can buy UK train tickets online with the provision of collecting them at the station . The only problem is that ticket vending machines at stations typically only accept <URL> and thus with your foreign Visa / MasterCard , you may not be able to pick up your tickets unless it 's a chip-and-PIN card . For long-distance journeys , <URL> does has an international delivery option which costs an additional 7.50 GBP ( although if you book early you can also get cheap ' advance ' tickets ) . If you do have a chip-and-PIN card , then sites like thetrainline provide you a unique one-time ID - this , along with your card details allows you to print your tickets out at the station itself . For most short distance journeys , you can buy tickets at the station itself . This is not a problem when the station is staffed ( during work hours ) , but can be when it 's not as you will again find yourself unable to buy from ticket vending machines . You can buy your tickets on the train itself when the guard comes checking tickets , but the portable payment system they use usually does n't support anything other than chip-and-PIN cards . Even with chip-and-PIN cards I have often found payments do not get cleared ( PIN is accepted , but transaction is declined ) so it 's best not to rely on that . In that case you have to make sure you carry enough cash on you before you get on-board a train . You may also be interested in <URL> - you can find how much your savings will be by going to the ' train tickets ' section on most train operators ' websites . As mentioned in a previous answer , you also may find it <URL> .
Next to travel.se I am also a big fan of <URL> . The userinterface might not be up to current standards , but they seem quite complete in their listings . as expected they do list the <URL> Tickets seems to be available through <URL> , or purchase tickets to events <URL>
There 's a Thermal Spa Centre ! The new thermal spa centre , on the opposite bank of the river Passirio , was opened during the 1970 's and is furnished with the most modern equipment for therapeutic treatment . It also houses an indoor swimming-pool filled with thermal water and the natural radio-activity in this water has a most beneficial pathological effect . The spa centre is open all year round and specialises in a vast selection of curative treatments . <URL> <URL> Prices range depending on whether you want a spa , a bath , and for how long . <URL> . There certainly does n't appear to be any indication of nudity .
It turns out that hotels are happy to receive mail for you before you arrive , provided you give them a heads-up first . I just bought my tickets from the Tigers ' <URL> , and had them send it to my hotel . I added my arrival date to the address , as " Lastname樣 ( 4月8日宿泊 ) " . The hotel got it fine . I did have to provide a Japanese phone number to the ticket purchasing website . My Japanese Skype number was n't accepted ( maybe because it has an area code specific to VoIP numbers ) . I used my friends ' number , but I imagine you could just use your hotel 's number ; it 's not like they got a call .
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
Indeed , the French transportation network is organised very centrally around Paris . Looking at the map of the recent ( it might change rapidly ) <URL> ( some website to book buses ) and the train network maps provided by the SNCF <URL> and <URL> , it looks clear that most trains and buses are centered around Paris ( you might find a connection in Tours or Le Mans ) so in any case you will have to connect . Using <URL> and avoiding Paris is possible but probably longer and less convenient , going through Nantes . An alternative would be ride sharing . <URL> is the most popular service . A search for this weekend shows few direct Rennes-Poitiers trips though . Also know that ride share trips tend to appear only about 2 weeks before the date of travel , so if you want to secure a trip early , this might not be your best option . Most French people now compare trains , buses and ride sharing options ( and planes for the longer distances ) when travelling across the country .
Important for car ( if you rent one , it will automatically have mph , but it is still useful how fast you are going for e.g. braking distance ) : All values are rounded for convenience ; the most frequent values are Speed 30 mph = 50 km/h 55 mph = 90 km/h 65 mph = 100 km/h Every car has cruise control . If you want to explore the USA by car , I recommend strongly to use it because the long distances together with the consistent speed limit and no action ( In Europe you are overtaking , adjusting the speed because the speed limit changes , changing the lane and leave the highway ) causes you to violate the speed limit easily and the punishment is prohibitive for European standards . Temperature Fahrenheit in Celsius : Subtract 30 and halve the value 30 - 40 ° F = 0 - 5 ° C cold 40 - 50 ° F = 5 - 10 ° C cool 50 - 60 ° F = 10 - 15 ° C fresh 60 - 70 ° F = 15 - 20 ° C coolish 70 - 80 ° F = 20 - 25 ° C normal 80 - 90 ° F = 25 - 30 ° C warm Distance 1 inch = 2,5 cm ( width of a thumb ) 1 foot = 12 inches = 30 cm ( a big foot , multiply with 3/10 ) 1 yard = 3 foot = 90 cm ( a bit shorter than a m ) 1 mile = 1760 yards = 1,6 km ( multiply with 5/8 ) Time The 24h system is not used widely in the US , they are ( except the military ) still using the a.m. ( before midday ) and p.m ( after midday ) system . Everything which is not 12 : XX is easy ( 1:29 p.m. = 13:29 , 5:30 a.m. = 5:30 ) , but the 12 : XX are tricky because they are changing the a.m. / p.m. during midday and midnight . Example : From one minute to midday it is 11:59 a.m. , 12:00 p.m. , 12:01 p.m. ... 1:00 p.m. and at midnight the change to 12:00 a.m. occurs . It is good to know that the calendar begins with Sunday ( in contrast to Monday in Europe ) and dates are expressed in the month/day/year format . Drinking and car filling : The US and UK pint and quarts are different , I forgot that 1 fluid ounce = 30 ml ( US ) used for small portions 1 pint ~ 470 ml ( US ) / 550 ml ( UK ) ( half a liter ) 1 quart ~ 900 ml ( US ) / 1,1 l ( UK ) ( nearly a liter ) 1 gallon = 3,8 l ( important for filling the car and yes , petrol/gas is very cheap ) . Tire pressure 1 psi ( pounds/inch ² ) = 1/15 bar = 7 kPa ( 1 bar = 100 kPa ~ atmospheric pressure ) 15 psi = 1 bar = 100 kPa 30 psi = 2 bar = 200 kPa etc. . Weights : 1 pound = 450 g ( 1 kg = 2.2 lb ) 1 ton = 1 ton Miscellaneous The floors are numerated with 1/G , 2 , 3 , 4 ... instead of the European G , 1 , 2 , 3 ...
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
The hotel wo n't mind if you check in and not use any of their services ... less food eaten equals less cost to them . But while you may not want to officially check out as that might cancel the last night you plan to use , it might be good to let the front desk know you may not be sleeping there every night , so they do n't call the police when your room is empty for three nights in a row . But an all inclusive does n't mean you are stuck there , you could use the rooms every night and set out to explore by day ( at your own expense or maybe with one of their activities if it suits your interests ) . You can head out to eat or eat in , no real restrictions . Is it sensible ? Hard to say , without more details . Is the cost of the package deal ( air , lodging , transfers ) less than the cost of just airfare ? Are there other benefits of the package you want to enjoy that you ca n't get on their own ?
You can take the <URL> ( Airport Limousine Bus ) direct from Haneda ( International Terminal ) to Narita ( Terminal 1 then Terminal 2 ) for 3,100 JPY . It comes fairly regularly ( roughly hourly ) and takes around 95 minutes . The earliest departure is 06:25 . Alternatively you can take the train . The best route depends on time of arrival , but your main options will be : Route A Haneda - > Shinagawa ( Keikyu Main/Airport Line Rapid Ltd. . Exp. , 13 mins ) Shinagawa - > Narita ( Narita Express , 68 mins ) Total route cost : 3,600 JPY . Route B Haneda ( through Sengakuji , Oshiage and Aoto ) - > Narita ( it 's one physical line but changes name across the journey , starting out as the Keikyu Main/Airport Line and changing to Toei Asakusa Line , then Keisei Oshiage Line and finally Keisei Narita Sky Access , 94 minutes ) Total route cost : 1,760 JPY If you want specific timings to plan your train journey and see which of the routes is better for you , check out the always-useful <URL> website . Having taken the bus I strongly recommend it - very comfortable , spacious and air-conditioned . What 's more , you can see some incredible urban views on the elevated express ways and drops you right at departures at Narita .
There are direct trains , which run on the Keisei Sky Access line or the Keisei Main Line between Narita airport and Aoto station , and then continue on the Keisei Oshiage line and the Toei Asakusa line , as shown on these <URL> screenshots . <URL> <URL> Note the triangle-shaped icons to the left of the station names : they indicate that this is the same train running on different lines , so you do not get off the train at those stations . Note also that the Access Express trains ( which run on the Keisei Sky Access line ) take less time , but cost more . By the way , there is currently no direct train leaving Narita airport between 14:00 and 15:00 and stopping at Higashi-Ginza , but there are some which stop at Nihombashi and Shinbashi nearby , which could be good enough for you .
From spending a year or so in Ireland as a student : Not much is " must buy " - it depends on who you are . I found my greatest " buys " in Ireland were experiences , rather than things . So here 's my list : A ticket to see the Book of Kells at Trinity College in Dublin . For that matter , just wandering Dublin . A ticket to the Guinness Factory Tour . You said no alcohol , but even if you have no intention to drink , it 's worth seeing . Something from the Waterford crystal factory in Waterford - after taking the factory tour ;) Lunch in a random pub . In terms of just merchandise ? The Irish are a sweater people , given their climate , so Irish wool sweaters , scarves , etc. are decent buys . And if you 're a slightly bigger dude , it is the land of the rugby shirt .
No you do n't . You can transfer to other terminals and exit there . However , you must be travelling with hand luggage only , otherwise you will have to return to the original terminal land-side to collect your luggage , which would be difficult as you would need to get past customs to collect it . Here 's an <URL> on flytalk . One of the quirks of the airside transfer buses and the flight connection areas in each terminal is that you can arrive on an INT flight at T5 but cross the UK border at another terminal . In fact you can also do this in reverse , so arrive on an INT at T3 for example , and cross the UK border at T5 . Whilst this is not really recommended normally , you may wish to do this if you have your car or left luggage at another terminal or you find the UK border at the terminal you arrive at to be very busy .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
Val di Sole in Northern Italy ( near the Dolomites ) is a great place for hiking and has some excellent bike trails , as well . Also , the valley 's Noce river is perfect for whitewater rafting , if you 're trying to mix up your sports activities .
Considering you are a Greece passport holder you can simply hop on a plane and go to Chile for a stay of up to 90 days . Greece nationals do not need a visa if they intend to visit Chile for less than 90 days . Kindly make sure your passport is at least 90 days till expiry , prefer to be 6 months . resourceful links : <URL> <URL> <URL> If you want to clear any confusions you can call the embassy @ 202-785-1746
end question
start question
What 's the cheapest way to travel from the airport to my hotel in Dublin , Ireland ?
There 's a pretty good <URL> , and from that , it looks like the bus is a viable option : Dublin Airport is only 16 miles away . The airport is serviced by buses ( 41 , 41a , 41b , 41c ) which will take you into the city centre where you can transfer onto a bus to Dun Laoghaire . There is also a service called AirCoach , this service is run on coaches and will deliver you in comfort and speed to selected locations around the city . The Dart is also accessible using the AerDart service which takes you by bus to Killester Dart station . The first <URL> on Sundays leaves from Dublin Airport at 07:15 . How early are you arriving ? From the centre you can then take one of these towards Dun Laoghaire : 7 , 7a , 8 , 45a , 46a , 59 , 75 , 111 Some of these buses start between 7-8 , some only at 09:30 , and some do n't run at all on Sundays . For more details , you could try the <URL> . Regarding the price : from the <URL> site it 's not immediately clear if you can continue on the same ticket when changing to the Dun Laoghaire bus , but looking at the <URL> , it 's going to be quite cheap in every case ( compared to a taxi which would cost around $ 50 ) .
Take the Airport Railroad to Seoul Station and from there a " Mugunghwa " train to Daejeon . The " all stop " train ( 1 hour journey ) from the airport to Seoul costs 3950 KRW . There is an express train doing the journey in 30 minutes . It costs 8000 KRW . <URL> The train from Seoul top Daejeon ( journey time : 2 hours ) costs 10800 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat . If you do without the reservation , you will save 1600 KRW . <URL> In total this option ( 13150 KRW for its cheapest variant ) is cheaper than an " Airport Limousine " ( = bus ) , which costs 20600 KRW . <URL> There are two slightly more expensive alternatives There are direct KTX trains from Incheon Airport to Deajeon . The 2 hour journey costs 36000 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat . As an alternative , from Seoul Station you can take a KTX to Daejeon . The 1 hour journey costs 23700 KRW in economy class with an assigned seat .
The ministries of foreign affairs of many countries offer travel advice on their websites . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc ... These sites are well known for their advice on safety and security and entry requirements . Nevertheless , they also have sections on " local laws and customs " . Look for instance <URL> .
While Ivan 's answer is the most economical option , I disagree that there 's not a shuttle . For inexperienced travellers who may not speak the language , there ARE taxis from both airports as well . There is also a shuttle/bus company called Manuel Tienda León . I used them . For 45-50 ARS , they 'll take you to the city to just near Retiro ( the main bus station and a metro station ) , and for 5 ARS extra , you can get dropped at your hostel/hotel . To me this was the best deal after a crazy long flight from Europe with delays , versus having to negotiate with local buses and being unwilling to pay for taxis . Even now , with my improved Spanish skills , I 'd probably still go for the shuttle option if arriving on my own by plane . No need to pre-arrange though , they 're right as you enter the terminal , and you do n't have to wait more than 15 minutes for a shuttle .
I 'd suggest you get a cheap GSM phone ( assuming you 're not lucky enough to have a GSM phone already ) , and then pick up a pre-pay ( PAYG ) sim card when you get to spain . This will also have the bonus of giving you a Spanish number for the duration of your trip , so people in Spain can call you for a sensible amount of money . If you only want data , you may wish to get an unlocked 3g usb dongle , and then pick up a PAYG sim card for it , that could potentially be cheaper than doing it via a phone .
It turned out there was a campground just a couple of minutes walk from the KTEL bus station where I posted my question from ! It did n't show up when I used Google Web or Maps for " camping " or " campground " . I fluked finding it by Googling for " Lonely Planet Ioannina " <URL> . Then Googling for its name led to some skimpy details with no info on prices or how late I could check in . And of course I walked in the wrong directions around the city for about an hour since Google Maps must 've been showing me some other bus station . <URL> where they even make it seem like there is some possibility of getting a bed or room . It turned out to be $ 9 per tent and $ 2 per person but I was given a $ 3 discount because it was the low season . So the cheapest option in Ioannina in early October is $ 8 ! High season prices : ( Note this sign does not mention anything about beds or rooms that are mentioned on the website ) Contact details :
Since you mention that you are open to getting to Cuba not necessarily directly from Europe but through a intermediate destination , my recommendation would be to consider one of two Canadian travel hubs : Montreal and Toronto . I recommend these because destinations in and around where Cuba are the main tourist places for Canadians for a big chunk of the year . You will occasionally find some ridiculously cheap fares through one or more of these methods : <URL> : they have regular deals as well as last minute deals . If you have the patience to look around their site , you are going to find some good packages . The caveat is that these tend to be vacation packages rather than just air fares but none the less , it is worth looking in to . <URL> : Air Canada and WestJet prices tend to go hand in hand a lot of the time . If one drops prices , the other one usually does as well . However , both airlines have partnerships with different hotels , etc. which gives you some more variety . <URL> : This is a budget airline where you will be able to find both cheap flights and vacation packages - in most cases , cheaper that both of the above airlines <URL> and <URL> : This site has a great collection of great deals picked out by <URL> where by you can get deals from all Canadian airports to other destinations . For example , on <URL> which is in turn a deal from Air Canada Vacations . All of the above methods usually require patience to be able to find the cheapest fares but then again , it is something to get started with :)
I travel with two bags . My main bag is the <URL> , and naturally contains all my main gear . Clothes , toiletries , laptop , extra batteries , etc. . My second bag is a <URL> , and it holds my camera , lenses , etc , and when I 'm traveling , a water bottle , perhaps spare change , maps , etc. . Anything I might want quickly . The Think Tank bag is marketed specifically as a camera bag , and I use it for that , even when I 'm not traveling . It 's ideal for travel photography , because it wraps around my waist , so my camera ( and extra lenses , external flash , or whatever other accessories ) are always easily accessible -- even when I 'm wearing my travel pack on my back ! Ken Rockwell first turned me on to the Speed Demon 2.0 pack with his <URL> . ( While I disagree with a large portion of what Ken Rockwell says , his reviews on usability are often valuable , IMHO ) . I spent a month backpacking around Mexico with this setup , including several long days carrying both bags with me all day long . ( Of course , when possible , I 'd leave as much stuff as I could in a hotel room , but that 's not always possible . ) For my next backpacking trip , I intend to add a third back-mounted daypack , that I will stuff inside my travel pack . I 'll keep my laptop , swim suit , and other smaller items in there , when it 's possible to leave the bulk of my belongings in a hotel room , but my waist pack is n't big enough . If you do n't carry many camera lenses , a similar waist/fanny pack would probably work well for you , and it does n't reduce mobility or cause you to overheat as a front-worn backpack would . If you do use many camera lenses , I still suggest this setup , but perhaps with a larger fanny pack than the one I use .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
I 'd say your question is best suited for the gurus over at <URL> , who specialize in wrangling frequent flyer miles and the like . Take a look at the Miles and More forum , as well as the mileage run forum ( which is their term for taking special trips that maximize mileage earned for minimum cost ) . However , if you 're willing to settle for slightly less status ( no first class terminals in Germany , for instance ) consider obtaining Star Alliance gold status on Aegean Airlines for significantly less cost -- only 20,000 miles if I remember correctly . This will allow you priority boarding , lounge access , luggage tags , etc. for less than $ 1000 in flights if you plan it correctly . Look at <URL> for more .
Many tourists fly in to Montego Bay and take shuttle buses from the airport to Ocho Rios ( and back ) . It has been several years since I made that trip , so I could n't tell you prices off the top of my head , but <URL> indicates that taxis are about $ 120 , with the shuttles being significantly cheaper ( some hotels and resorts in Ocho Rios may also offer shuttle service ) . Be aware that many of the shuttles will stop off for a " rest stop " at a location with tourist shops . This seems to be due to arrangements between the store owners and either the shuttle drivers or the shuttle companies . Expect to have to waste about 20-30 minutes or so coming from Montego Bay ( we did n't stop on the way from Ocho Rios to Montego Bay that I recall ) . From Ocho Rios , I relied on hired cars/taxis , and found them to be relatively cost-effective . Bus service to the more rural areas may have existed , but I 'm fairly certain it was sporadic at best . It is very easy to find a driver who will take you to wherever you wish to go , and wait for you so they can earn the return trip fare as well . The drivers also tend to be good resources for finding out more about the area . A couple of warnings : Always agree on the price for a hired car/taxi before the trip . I strongly advise that you do not consider renting a car in Jamaica . The drivers there are some of the most aggressive I 've seen in the world , and it can be a major hazard even trying to cross a single street on foot . If you do rent a car , be sure you have excellent insurance coverage !
Buy the cheapest one-way ticket out of the country . Show this as proof of your onward travel . Then forget about it ; you do n't need to use it . For example , you can get Madrid to London for 15 euros on RyanAir.com . For 15 euros , you can have peace of mind . Better safe than sorry .
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
There is a great service provided by <URL> which is dead on accurate as far as the city is concerned . The problem with the time you 're landing and the time you will be going into the city is the fact that on a weekday this will be a rush hour , so here are the better options : JFK Take <URL> to the <URL> in Jamaica and Take E train Manhattan/Downtown direction , which under normal circumstances will take slightly more then an hour to get to 8th Ave 23rd Street LaGuardia Sorry no Airtrain available so it will be a <URL> transfer which could be a pain with luggage but it will drop you off right in between the 2 districts on 23rd and 6th if you take one of the orange lines <URL> or <URL> . F should be faster since it 's running express in Queens . Newark <URL> Option 1 - Bus to PATH . Take a bus from Airport to Newark Path Station and then take PATH to Newark changing at Journal Square Station for Path to 33rd street and take it to 23rd street station which is 23rd street and 6th Ave on the border of the districts . Option 2 - Train to Penn Station . Take Airtrain in Newark to the Newark Airport train station and then take Amtrak or NJ Transit to the New York Penn Station on 34th and 8th Ave , and then either walk a few blocks ( they are short ) or take <URL> Downtown direction for 1 stop to 23rd Street . Option 3 - Bus . <URL> provides a shuttle that runs every 15 minutes from each of the terminals and takes 30 - 60 minutes depending on traffic to get you to NY Port Authority Bus Terminal from which you can take <URL> or walk . Of course there are always taxis or airlink services such as : <URL> <URL> <URL> That you can simply board and they will drop you off where you need to go . Might be a little more expensive then Public Transportation but easy and more convenient . As you can see most trips will take about an hour .
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
Via the <URL> , it is possible to book a bus from Berlin to Krakow for 29 EUR , even for a departure on a ( very ) short notice ( read : tomorrow ) . The price for a regular train ticket is 61 EUR . Eurolines will charge you about the same . The travel time by bus or train is 9 - 10 hours . By train you have to change once . The typical routing is via Warsaw . The plane is more expensive . Air Berlin has direct flights from Berlin to Krakow . One-way fares start at about 100 EUR , even for a departure at short notice ( in a week or so ) . Travel time is 1h20 . Regarding Poznan , it is an underrated destination in Poland . It 's definitely worth a stop . Note that all the trains from Warsaw to Berlin stop in Poznan too . It is indeed possible to travel on a night train from Poznan to Krakow . I do n't think that you will save a lot of money by doing that ( if any at all ) . The major advantage of the night train is the time saving . You can leave Berlin in the late afternoon and you will arrive in Krakow early in the morning . Traveling by day you will leave in the morning and arrive in the evening . On the other hand it can be pleasant to spend an evening in Krakow and sleep in a real bed .
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
end question
start question
Which visa to apply for a coding competition in Hungary ?
There is no formal distinction between visas for tourism or business purposes in the Schengen countries . There 's just a single kind of visa : uniform type C short-stay visas , with a single application process . In the visa application , you have to explain why you 're going , but you wo n't be held responsible for classifying the application into rigid " tourism " and " business " categories . Sure enough there are checkboxes for " purpose of travel " in the standard application form , but that 's just for convenience and ease of processing , so that straightforward tourists or business travelers wo n't have to word an explanation of their own -- not because the answer there selects between different sets of rules . You can always enclose a more detailed free-form explanation to clarify your answer .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
You need an UK entry clearance before you leave Denmark or your carrier will refuse to board you . It does not matter that you have a Danish work permit , it is entirely governed by what type of passport you hold . For your question about the difference between ' visa ' and ' entry clearance ' . An ' entry clearance ' is what they will put in your passport if your application is successful . Americans , Canadians , etc who apply at the border get an ' entry certificate ' , or ' leave to enter ' . For your question about getting a long-term general visitor visa , if you are successful they will give you one valid for 6 months . If you build up about 5 or 6 of those AND you show them a viable need for visiting the UK over a long period of time , they will consider a longer term . A long-term visitor for ordinary tourism will not work . Adding : take note that if you apply for a long-term visitor visa , they will keep the extra money you paid and issue you the standard 6 month visa anyway .
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
Purchasing the E-Vignette Online It seems that the vignettes can be purchased after registering on the <URL> . You click on the icon of your vehicle and are redirected to the registration/login page . Pricing Information Regarding the pricing , I could not find any information signalling different prices between on-line and off-the-shelf purchases . I am therefore assuming the prices are the same , and this makes sense since we are talking about an electronic vignette -- no shipping costs , etc. . Here is some information about pricing , taken from <URL> : The amount of the toll depends on the category of the motor vehicle . The toll categories are as follows : D1 : motorcycles , and motor vehicles with a maximum total permissible weight of 3.5 tons , including any trailers . B2 : buses and campers ( with trailers ) with a maximum total permissible weight over 3.5 tons . As of December 2014 , the prices are ( adapted from <URL> ) :
If you are traveling with a Canadian passport . From the <URL> : Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require visas to enter the United States , for visit , tourism and temporary business travel purposes . For more information see <URL> , U.S. Consulate Hamilton website and <URL> . . Additional resources for Canadian visitors to the United States can be found on the U.S. Embassy and Consulate websites in Canada . If the CBP officer asks for the purpose of the visit you can tell him that you 're meeting with a prospective employer .
As I understand it , your domestic leg is only covered if : It 's part of a through international ticket It 's a special ticket issued with CIV protections For the former , DB will happily sell you a through ticket from ( for example ) Brussels to Berlin . This involves a change of trains at Koln , but as it 's a through ticket you 're covered by CIV protections all the way to Berlin ( not just on the international leg from Brussels to Koln ) For the latter , certainly in the UK at least you can buy special tickets for when you 're connecting to or from an international train journey . If you 're going to get a Eurostar , or to get a Rail-Sail train , or returning from one , you can get a ticket to/from a special destination such as " London International ( CIV ) " or " London Eurostar ( CIV ) " . These tickets extend the CIV protection onto your domestic leg . They also normally have a bonus of being valid on peak time trains , but priced closer to off peak tickets , but can only be bought when in possession of an onward international train ticket ( eg eurostar ticket , Dutch Flyer rail-sail ticket ) . See <URL> or <URL> for more details on how they work in the UK . Generally speaking , if you hold a through ticket with an international component , you 're covered by CIV . That could be a single international train , such as a London - > Paris Eurostar , or it could be a through ticket with a change , such as Brussels - > Berlin with a train change in Koln . A rail + sail ticket will normally also get you CIV , such as an Oxford to Dublin Ferryport , though these normally make it explicit by including CIV on the ticket . Finally you can buy a CIV connecting ticket , such as Oxford - > London International ( CIV ) to extend the protections onto the domestic leg . If you do n't have such a ticket , I think you 're technically not covered ( unless the country you 're in has gone above what 's required ) , but the train companies will often help you out all the same !
Yes there is a form to be filled , and that is the arrival card which you usually get it during the flight . The form has simple fields : Name , date of birth , passport information , address in Indonesia , duration of stay and flight number along with other usual stuff . No tricky or smart questions like in visa forms of other countries . This form should be handed to the immigration desk currently , not to the VOA desk like before . UPDATE ( 2016 ) : Earlier in 2016 , no more landing cards and no more VOAs are required , except for business visas . All tourists who required a VOA before are now eligible to enter without landing cards or a printed VOA for 30 days , no more fees to be paid as well . The customs form is still required .
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
The right answer to this is that it depends on the consulate officer . I got my B1/B2 with only a single document , my employment/income proof . From what I can understand , as long as consulate officer is convinced that you have enough money to sponsor the trip and enough reason to come back to your country , it is enough for them . Strictly speaking while an invitation letter is a plus , it is not mandatory . It just helps in increasing your chances , in case consulate officer gets suspicious that you are up to no good .
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
The UK has a perfectly nice Helsinki embassy , so this is n't an issue of remote location . It 's a great location , but British posts abroad require an authorised ' visa section ' before they can issue visas and the embassy in Finland does not have one . This is the standard case for all British missions in the Scandinavian region . Is Finland an exceptional case , and UK consular services are usually handled directly , or was this a fact-checking slip at Vice ? No , Finland is NOT an exceptional case . The news article you linked to explains that Finland was , in fact , normalizing to the standard case . Let 's look at an exhibit the government sent out to the <URL> last year ... <URL> It shows that visa processing in Helsinki ( and other places ) is actually performed in <URL> in <URL> . In order to make the process transparent to an end-user , they use a 3rd party contractor who collects the biometrics and then acts as a secured courier . They are referred to variously as <URL> . The text you cited in your question refers to some of the premium services offered by the VFS in Dubai . Per the <URL> provided by ' <URL> ' ( to whom thanks ) , it 's known that the same or similar services are available in Canada , the USA , Saudi Arabia , and virtually all <URL> where such premium services are demanded . For that reason , I would not extend a high level of editorial credibility to that article . Premium services are created and controlled by acts of Parliament and <URL> . Despite the use of 3rd party VAC 's and VFS 's , decision-making on a visa is always performed by a British national <URL> who holds both a security clearance and a mandate to perform decision-making on behalf of HM . Also a post that can issue British visas is called " British Consulate General " and is often a stand-alone mission ( such as the <URL> ) , these are the sites that will direct you to the appropriate VFS . So in order to apply for a UK visa , you would create an account at <URL> and towards the end of the application the program will present a list of VFS 's in your current location where you can present your application and enrol your biometrics . Generic tip : never , ever , EVER let a VFS employee give you advice or remove documents from your application . Especially in India . Although they might like to act like experts , they are trained as couriers and generally have no clue what they are talking about .
<URL> offers " Sparpreis " saver fares up to a few minutes before departure . However , these are the regular saver fares that only rise and almost never fall in price if you are getting nearer to departure , Up until last December <URL> offered such tickets however that promotors on has stopped . A month ago they once again had a few without long notice so it pays to check from time to time . Note that they currently sell the same tickets as Deutsche Bahn directly but with a surcharge . You might be able to find someone selling their non-online saver fare on websites such as EBay Kleinanzeigen or local Facebook groups . However , never fall for offers to book a connection you provide them for a low price on those sites as an online-ticket . These are too good to be true . Other than that there are no last minute deals for Deustche Bahn trains in Germany .
Since there is apparently no " main destination " in your trip , your visa application should be processed by the first Schengen state you will enter , in your case Germany . This is from article 5 of the Schengen visa code ( Regulation ( EC ) No 810/2009 ) : The Member State competent for examining and deciding on an application for a uniform visa shall be : ( a ) the Member State whose territory constitutes the sole destination of the visit ( s ) ; ( b ) if the visit includes more than one destination , the Member State whose territory constitutes the main destination of the visit ( s ) in terms of the length or purpose of stay ; or ( c ) if no main destination can be determined , the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter the territory of the Member States . [ I highlighted the most important bit ] The border between Germany and Austria is an " internal border " , which is why there will be no systematic passport check when landing in Vienna . Frankfurt is where you will cross the external border to enter the Schengen area ( which is called " territory of the Member States " in the official regulation ) .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
Despite their apparent use of the English language , Canada has the most confusing immigration/border information web site I have ever seen . Fortunately , I have a little experience with this ( having had to be deemed rehabilitated myself , and having friends who had to go through the rehabilitation process ) and the actual processes are quite a bit simpler than the web site makes out . If it 's been less than five years since your probation/parole ended , you 're considered inadmissible to Canada , and ca n't apply for rehabilitation . The temporary resident permit , however , overrides this inadmissibility , usually for a single entry . It can be granted by a consulate , but for Americans who receive one it 's almost always issued at the border , and the Americans involved are usually quite surprised that their old criminal record makes them inadmissible . The guidance states that in order to receive a temporary resident permit , " your need to enter or stay in Canada must outweigh the health or safety risks to Canadian society , as determined by an immigration or a border services officer . " This gives the CBSA officer fairly wide latitude in determining whether to give you one . Your ability to articulate and represent yourself well will be quite helpful here . When you 're issued a temporary resident permit at the border , you will be told how long you are allowed to remain in Canada , and you will be instructed that you must check in with CBSA at the point of departure . Since Canada does not have exit immigration , you have to go out of your way a bit to visit the Canadian port of entry at your border crossing when you leave and have someone there verify your exit from Canada . You will be instructed that if you do n't do this before the end of your allowed stay in Canada on the temporary resident permit , an arrest warrant will be issued for you . You can , if you wish , apply for the temporary resident visa from a consulate . Note that this is the same type of visa that all non-immigrant Canadian visitors receive for tourism , business , transit , or study . But if you have n't been through the rehabilitation process , you are likely to be refused without a very compelling reason for visiting . Going on a cruise probably wo n't qualify . You can also just take your chances and show up at the border . It 's possible your criminal history wo n't be checked and you 'll pass through without a hitch . If you 're on a US passport , passport card or enhanced driver license , it might not even be scanned . But if you 're asked about criminal history , you should go ahead and disclose it , since they can access it anyway , and lying will only make the situation worse . Since you 're merely transiting , you may be allowed to go on with a temporary resident permit . In the worst case , you would be detained and removed back to the US ( which is where you were going anyway ) .
Each consulate services a fixed geographical area and people from that state are only eligible to have their visa screening done through the respective consulate . This is done to prevent abuse and fraud . If you change your address to somewhere you do n't actually stay , the following may occur : The visa officer may ask your current residence and why it does n't coincide with your paperwork . Unsatisfactory answers may result in rejection of your petition . If approved , your passport may be sent to the address in Telangana / Orissa if not being picked up at the consulate . If the visa officer decided that you are committing fraud , he / she may place additional sanctions on your file thus making any petitions in future harder or impossible to get approved . It is highly advisable to present your visa petition case as honestly as you can . If for some reason , you can not wait till the next available date for your visa interview , then you can request for an emergency interview . Emergency requests are granted outside of the normal interview slots and are granted on a per-case basis . Emergency can be anything ranging from death of an immediate family member , job reporting date drawing near , etc. . Be prepared to explain in detail about the nature of your emergency request .
He can stay until September . The visa expiration date is the date by which one must enter the US . See , for example , <URL> . In particular : Admission to the United States and your Duration of Stay Upon arriving at a port of entry , the CBP official will determine the length of your visit . On the admission stamp or paper Form I-94 , the U.S. immigration inspector records either an admitted-until date or " D/S " ( duration of status ) . If your admission stamp or paper Form I-94 contains a specific date , then that is the date by which you must leave the United State . If you have D/S on your admission stamp or paper Form I-94 , you may remain in the United States as long as you continue your course of studies , remain in your exchange program , or qualifying employment . The admitted-until date or D/S notation , shown on your admission stamp or paper Form I-94 is the official record of your authorized length of stay in the United States . You can not use the visa expiration date in determining or referring to your permitted length of stay in the United States . Note the last two sentences : " The admitted-until date ... shown on your admission stamp ... is the official record of your authorized length of stay in the United States . You can not use the visa expiration date in determining . . your permitted length of stay in the United States . Reading between the lines , you may conclude that this is designed to stop people who have , for example , a 10-year visitor visa from claiming that they are authorized to stay in the US for 10 years . But it is equally true in your father 's case , where the admitted-until date is later than the visa expiration date .
No . You can not apply for a U.S. visa inside the U.S. . A U.S. visa is only for entering the U.S. , and can only be applied for while outside the U.S. Even if you had a visa , it does not mean " for sure that you will be able to come back " . A visa just permits you to apply for admission . It is always possible to be denied entry on a nonimmigrant visa .
end question
start question
Carless in Portland Maine ?
The answer is yes , as long as you do n't consider a taxi to be a car , and you do n't mind missing some of the interesting things in the area . A caveat first : it 's been ten years since I spent much time in Portland ( I lived in Boston , would make occasional day trips or lunchtime stops on my way to/from other parts of Maine ) . Things might have changed . As a car-free tourist in Portland , you will want to stay in the <URL> area . Lots of shops and restaurants , a few parks that I see on the <URL> but have n't visited , and plenty of chain hotels . I remember this area as moderately hilly : nothing like San Francisco , but maybe 50 ' up and down as you get close to the water . The <URL> is a couple of miles away from the Old Port . I remember this as an industrial area , only seen from the interstate , so do n't think you 'd want to walk from there even if you were n't pregnant . However , getting a cab should n't be a problem . But ... the Old Port is n't the only thing to see in the Portland area . Probably not something that matters if you 're just planning an overnight trip . But for a longer stay , I 'd want to go visit lighthouses , or maybe head down to Old Orchard Beach . Or go up to Freeport , the home of L.L. Bean and one of the nicest-looking outlet malls you 'll ever see . * And as a bonus for travelers , the <URL> , with its <URL> , is on the way to Freeport . * It 's a real town , and the residents would be offended by that comment , but it 's a town that 's based on commerce . That said , it 's commerce that has been forced to look like a New England village ; even the MegaBurger chain looks like a colonial house ( and it 's on the outskirts of town ) . There are also a surprising number of local establishments amongst the chains .
To the best of my knowledge this is impossible , or at least impractical . <URL> is intentionally made hard ( cars are taxed much more heavily in Sg ) , and rental agencies will generally not even let you cross the border , much less return cars on the wrong side . Your options are : Return the car right across the border in Johor Bahru , then catch a bus/special taxi to Singapore . This would be a hassle , plus the drive from KL to JB is quite dull ; the scenery is much better in any other direction . Drop off your car in Kuala Lumpur , preferably right at the airport , then fly directly to Singapore Changi . I 'd recommend this , this would be the easiest option and the route is very heavily competed , so tickets are cheap .
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
From the <URL> : Your baggage allowance is given by combined weight , not by number of bags . As long as your bags have a combined weight within your allowance , bring as many as you like . No single bag can weigh more than 32kg So , as long as your brother stays under 20kg total , he 's fine with no matter how many bags . The 32kg per bag limit would only matter if he was in business , and/or bought extra luggage allowance .
The Red MAX takes 44 minutes from Pioneer Square to the airport . Source : <URL> . So that 's 1.5 hrs . Security wait times you can predict from <URL> . Let 's put that to 20 minutes . Actually you need to get off the plane and get out . I 'd put that to another 20-30 minutes . We are at the 2.5 hrs mark . You need to wait for the Max , walk in the airport , your layover is a bit shorter because you need to be there by boarding and not leaving . So , you can make it to Moonstruck on Alder street , have a decent hot chocolate and then go back . Sightseeing , not so much . I certainly would rather than sitting at the airport . Moonstruck hot chocolate is one of the better ones on this coast , you need to go as far as Vancouver , BC to have better . ( Or if you have broader horizons , Eataly in New York is best . )
You could try contacting Luhambo tours , who do daily tours leaving from Cape Town . Small groups with specialised wine guides . +27 21 551 04 67 . If you want to do it yourself , maps , information on vineyards that receive and accommodate visitors and advice on getting to them are all available from the very helpful people at the <URL> in Stellenbosch . Also have a look at Wikitravel 's page on the <URL> . It mentions several other tour companies that include half-day and single day tours . Quite a range of prices too ! It also lists down the bottom the famous wine estates of the region , including their opening times and contact details .
<URL> is a restaurant at the top of the U.S. Bancorp Tower and was voted " Best View " in 2003 by USA Today .
Well the closest decent-sized town to all of this is Lhasa . There is rain there of about 500mm ( 20 inches ) annually , but most of that is in <URL> . As such , for warmer months and to avoid the weather , May is the peak tourist season . <URL> it indicates that in May , the average precipitation is 1.1 inches ( 26mm ) in May . So next to nothing really , you 'd be unlucky to get a lot of rain , if at all during the day . The average temperatures according to that are from a low of 5C to average high of 19C , so potentially even better than you thought ;)
According to the article in the <URL> it is possible as long as she 's in a female only area and hence you ca n't be with her . This information obviously is a little dated but the only area that is known for laxer regulations would be the island of <URL> but that information is even more dated . The most recent English news I was able to find is an <URL> so legally it is highly unlikely that regulations enforced for hijab would be laxer for bikinis .
The answer is yes , but you will have to speak a bit slower to most Brazilians , since they are not so used to listening to Portuguese with " Portuguese accent " . The other way around is easier because Portuguese people are used to listen to Brazilian accent in soap operas . In Angola , Mozambique , etc. differences also exist but the understanding might be a bit easier due to several cultural and historical reasons . There are also some minor differences in word spelling and meaning between country 's but if you learn Portuguese in any Portuguese speaking country it should be easy to overcome those differences . With the orthographic agreement recently settled these changes are fading away . There will still be differences in pronunciation and even specific words in each country , specially in colloquial language , but that 's the beauty of a language , it 's live and dynamic . There are actually very nice , lets call them , regional terms in each countrys : Portuguese / Angola : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> ( a very nice article , unfortunatly in Portuguese , where some minor gramar explanations and some idiomatic expressions ) These are just 2 examples . But I am sure you can find them also for Mozambique , S , Tome and Princepe , Guine Bissau , Cape Verde , India ( Goa ) , Timor and Macau .
Fast Lanes Are a No As you correctly point out , the UK is one of those countries where vehicles drive on the left hand lane . This means that overtaking is done by passing vehicles on the right . I do n't think that a the concept of a fast lane exists on UK motorways since one should always occupy the leftmost free lane and switch to adjacent lanes on the right solely to overtake . Indeed this is reflected <URL> : Rule 264 You should always drive in the left-hand lane when the road ahead is clear . If you are overtaking a number of slower-moving vehicles , you should return to the left-hand lane as soon as you are safely past . So Is Undertaking For completeness sake note that undertaking , I.e. passing vehicles on their inside ( left ) lane is forbidden in the UK , except for when dense traffic conditions force vehicle to proceed slowly on parallel lanes . Quoting from <URL> : Rule 268 Do not overtake on the left or move to a lane on your left to overtake . In congested conditions , where adjacent lanes of traffic are moving at similar speeds , traffic in left-hand lanes may sometimes be moving faster than traffic to the right . In these conditions you may keep up with the traffic in your lane even if this means passing traffic in the lane to your right . Do not weave in and out of lanes to overtake .
Tap water in MA is quite drinkable ; I 've lived here for over 30 years , drinking it . No funny colors or odors , either .
The Greek Law Forbids Wild Camping First things first : a Greek law dating from 1976 forbids wild camping . Quoting from <URL> : Greece Wild camping here is illegal , the authorities preferring to point tourists towards money-making , taxable hotels and campsites . This rule is rampantly ignored , but we 're not going to recommend that you wild camp , just in case . But a friend of a friend of a friend tells us there are numerous stunning spots on the Cyclades islands which are virtually un-policed , particularly the north-western coast of Amorgos and the southern beaches of Anafi . And we certainly would n't recommend the east coast of the Peloponnese around Leonidi and Kyparissi , despite the fact that they are totally unregulated and utterly remote . Nope , not us . The law prohibiting wild camping has a number of caveats including <URL> , the possibility of <URL> , and whether or not a taking a nap in a sleeping bag is considered camping . The Logistics ( i.e. Who 's Gon na Take you There ? ) Having said this , let 's turn our attention to the logistic aspects of this . <URL> . You would therefore have to pay for a boat ride , and convince the skipper to leave you on the island . Another option would be to hide away on the beach hoping that nobody notices your absence . How about the return journey ? You 'd have to convince a different skipper to pick you up ( for a fee , of course ) . Or you could have arranged something with your departure boatman . All in all this plan depends on the cooperation of the skipper who takes you to the beach . I could n't find anything regarding rules and regulation that might prohibit boating companies from leaving passengers on the beach overnight . Might be worth a try . Another option would be to get there with your own boat , moor and camp on the beach . At this point you 'll have to hope that the coast guard does n't patrol the beach . You might get lucky and spend a wonderful night , or you might end up having to discuss with the Greek law enforcement officers - an experience I do n't wish to anyone . If you do end up camping there please be respectful of the environment , and leave no trace of your passage .
Banff is about <URL> , and is worth visiting if you 're not going to be back in Calgary anytime soon . The normal list of Calgary attractions : Calgary Zoo Canada Olympic Park Spruce Meadows Telus World of Science Fort Calgary More information : <URL>
Let me answer my own question . I just got back from the trip and I found out that motorbike rental shops are abundant in Philippines ( but usually not advertised online ) . The price is usually about 600PHP ( 12 USD ) for one day . Even in rural places where there are no renting businesses it is easy to arrange for a rental with locals . I rented 6 different motorbikes throughout the country and had no problem whatsoever . <URL>
The <URL> is not constant - it 's allowed to drop as the plane ascends , within safe levels ( typically down to the pressure one would find at between 1500 and 2000 meters of altitude ) . The reason for this is that a pressure difference between inside and outside puts stress on the fuselage . Reducing the maximum difference allows the fuselage to be lighter , which makes the plane consume less fuel .
Based on my experiences and conversations in Bali so far ( specifically : Ubud , Denpasar , Sanur ) , it appears that tipping works something like this : Restaurants You 're generally not expected to tip , but there are exceptions : At some restaurants , a 5 % " service fee " will be added to your bill . As printemps noted , you will encounter a sort of " share the wealth " mentality if you appear to be wealthy or are in an area heavily frequented by tourists . You should leave a 5-10k tip in these cases ( no more than 20k though ; keep reading ) . Do not leave a huge tip , even for really good service . It will be viewed as charity , and you will not leave the positive impression you were hoping for ! Taxis Taxi drivers generally do not expect tips . In Bali , taxis are not metered ; you negotiate the fare beforehand . So there is no " round up " tipping or anything of than nature . If the driver goes above and beyond ( assists with luggage , etc. ) , a 5-20k tip is appropriate . Other Services I 've heard that you should tip at spas and hairdressers , but I have n't been to any since I got here , so I can not comment . Other service providers will not expect a tip .
In my experience , Delta Sky Club , Admirals Club and United Club are comparable to each other . But I know that some travelers have strong preference toward one club or another . All of them are much more comfortable than publicly available halls : there are quiet rooms in the clubs , they offer snacks , drinks , and free wi-fi . However , they do n't have beds . At ORD , three main terminals are connected to each other on the airside . So you can go to any of these three lounges without leaving the secure area ( the International Terminal is not connected to Terminals 1,2 , and 3 . But all domestic and most international flights by US carriers depart from Terminals 1 , 2 , and 3 ) . United Club will be the most convenient for you : it will be the closest to your departure gate , United staff will inform you when the boarding starts and assist you if your flight is delayed . As DJClayworth suggested , you can also book a room in the Hilton Airport Hotel . It is connected to Terminals 1,2 and 3 by an underground tunnel . ( The same tunnel connects terminals to the subway station and parking garages . )
What you 're looking for is , in fact , a fully furnished condo with all utilities included available for extremely short term lease . They are rather abundant in Makati city , but they will be advertised in random places . These are investment properties maintained to fill the exact need that you have , and you will often be doing business with an agent of the owner ( broker ) who is paid a modest commission for sales and a monthly fee for the upkeep of the property . You 're going to be dealing mostly with Craigslist / classified ads unless you happen upon a property that is managed by one of the larger property management companies . It is not at all unreasonable to ask to pay a reservation fee up front and the remainder of the agreed amount prior to moving in . This protects the seller and you . You should also ask to see recent pictures of the property , and it would not be rude to say something like : Would you mind including a dated copy of today 's news paper in the photos ? Also make sure that the price includes : Electricity without additional deposit ( s ) Cable without additional deposit ( s ) Water without additional deposit ( s ) , working hot water in the shower You 'll know right away if you 're dealing with an accredited honest broker or some shady character trying to separate people from their money on The Internet . Finally , it 's rather common ( and expected ) for the receiving party to pre-arrange these things for you when speaking of business trips . It 's much better if you can get someone local to do the research and leg work for you . What I can tell you ( because I live in Mandaluyong and work in Makati ) is that the properties in the location you stated ( walking distance to Ayala / Makati ave ) are very nice , so your chances of hitting something good are very high . On a closing note , do n't forget to go to Glorietta mall ( ca n't miss it ) , locate the movie theater and then look for a food shop called Tater 's . Try the popcorn .
Daytime temperatures are around 10-20 ° C which seems good for hiking ( up to 23 ° C in Tetovo ) . Nighttime temperatures can drop down to 0-5 ° C . You could get some rain and thunderstorms during a day but also few sunny days in a row ... If you go hiking for a week in April/May , you are pretty likely to get 1 to 3 days with some rain . Temperatures source : <URL>
end question
start question
I did an online checkin with Etihad with no access to a printer - how can I get my boarding pass now ?
I suggest you go to the airport , and obtain your boarding passes there . There are three ways you 'll get them at the airport : If they have check-in machines , you can walk up to them and simply print the boarding pass ( note : depending on how crappy the software is , you may not be able to print them - this has n't happened to me in years , though , since the machines improved ) . You can walk up to the baggage drop-off and ask them to print the boarding pass for you . Depending on how busy/annoying they are , they may send you to a machine , though . You go to the normal check-in counter . This is guaranteed to work out fine , but may take a while , depending on how many other people are queuing . Whatever solution you choose , remember that as soon as you get to the " print your boarding pass " stage , you 're checked into the flight . Thus , you 're on the flight according to their system ( which is good if they kick people off an overbooked flight due to check-in order ) , which means it 'll be quite a hassle for them if you did n't make it to the gate . So you 're all fine .
Many of the major airlines do have self-service checkin machines at the airport . I know <URL> , allows printing forgotten or failed prints . If your airlines does not have these self service machines , and you are not yet at the airport , try going to a print or copyshop . Most airports these days have these shops , but sometimes they can have quite some waiting queues , which will be adding stress to your journey . Depending on the airline you are traveling , you could choose to use a <URL> as an alternative boarding card . This only works if your boarding pass has a bar code they use to scan prior to boarding . What you need to do is make a pdf of your boarding pass and store it on your device . I always do this these days and this already saved me once . A final option is to just approach the check in desk and ask a reprint . This is the least favorable solution , since the whole idea behind online check in is to minimize contact time at a manned checkin desk . Some airlines are then reluctant to help you in these request , some airlines ( Ryanair comes to mind ) have a hefty fee if you ask for a reprint . In the case of Ryanair this is 40 euros or even higher .
The best way to find out whether you need a reservation on a certain train is to look up the train in a rail planner . I use the <URL> for this , as it is easy to use and gives good information . Enter the cities you want to travel and adjust date and time of day , if traveling more than a few months from the time you check , just pick a random date but try to use the same day of the week , and hit search . In the results you will find trains with an R , a grey dot with a white R means compulsory reservation , they also have a different R for recommended reservation . Click on the orange arrow before the results and you get details . The train you mention was in the results I got without reservation notice with it , so you can get on it without a reservation , also when you hold a rail pass . For first class travel I might not bother with reservations but for second class long distance travel I do make them when possible . Trains do tend to fill up , also when you do not expect them to .
As has been pointed out by several people in the comments , your question is similar to the question <URL> , and indeed that question does give some relevant advice - however there is a little bit more to it in this case . Priority Pass currently have 4 lounges available at LHR - A ServisAir lounge in each of terminals 1 and 3 , the No 1 Heathrow lounge in terminal 3 , and the Air Canada Arrivals Lounge in Terminal 3 . The first 3 of these lounges are AIRSIDE , and thus the " shopping " question above will give you your answer - you can not access them from terminal 5 . The last lounge - the Air Canada lounge - is LANDSIDE , and thus presuming you are able to enter the UK ( ie , you have a relevant visa and/or do not require a visa ) then at first it may appear that you could go through immigrations , and then catch the bus to terminal 3 to access this lounge . However , unfortunately , that 's not the case . The Air Canada lounge only allows access for Priority Pass customers who are arriving on a flight that arrives into terminal 3 . As you arrived into terminal 5 you will NOT be allowed access this lounge . So unfortunately , no , you will not be able to access any of the lounges in terminal 1 or 3 .
I suggest you go to the airport , and obtain your boarding passes there . There are three ways you 'll get them at the airport : If they have check-in machines , you can walk up to them and simply print the boarding pass ( note : depending on how crappy the software is , you may not be able to print them - this has n't happened to me in years , though , since the machines improved ) . You can walk up to the baggage drop-off and ask them to print the boarding pass for you . Depending on how busy/annoying they are , they may send you to a machine , though . You go to the normal check-in counter . This is guaranteed to work out fine , but may take a while , depending on how many other people are queuing . Whatever solution you choose , remember that as soon as you get to the " print your boarding pass " stage , you 're checked into the flight . Thus , you 're on the flight according to their system ( which is good if they kick people off an overbooked flight due to check-in order ) , which means it 'll be quite a hassle for them if you did n't make it to the gate . So you 're all fine .
There 's nothing wrong with wanting some peace and quiet while traveling , to many people travel is more of a hassle than an enjoyment so I 'd say it 's quite common for travellers to expect non-social time . Not everyone is trying to chat all the time . Social cues and customs differ between countries , but I 'd say in the West at least , if someone strikes up a conversation with a stranger it 's probably because that person looks " available " for a chat . Some things I do when I do n't feel like having a chat is to busy myself with something , like reading/writing , smartphones are a blessing and a curse in that regard . Simply having earphones on ( music optional ) or closing your eyes for a light sleep also sends the message that you 're not up for conversation . That said , I 've learned to enjoy the occasional small talk with travellers . I 'm a bit of a private person as well but sometimes it ca n't be avoided , so might as well relax and make the best of it , it 's a part of travel as a whole
Website you mentioned in the question , covers <URL> . Also , bus operator has a handy <URL> tool . What you probably want to search , is the route from <URL> . You will have to switch buses at Borgarnes ( from no. 57 to no. 58 ) . Make sure the driver will drop you off where you want though . You can also try hitchhiking from Borgarnes . In the summer there are a lot of tourists and Snaefellsnes peninsula is quite popular destination . Also , make sure to be dropped off at the road to the farm south of Eldborg ( Snorrastadir ) and take an " official " trail from there . As far as I recall , there is a fence around the crater area ( it 's nature 's reserve I think ) and the terrain around it is quite difficult . You can also sleep at this farm if need be - there is camping site , showers , kitchen etc. . EDIT : I highly recommend to use this instead of Google maps , it is just much better ( you can see the trails etc. ) : <URL>
Doing so seems impossible before check-in but is no hassle at ( online - ) check-in . So I did call up website support and customer service of Lufthansa and Miles &amp; More . Staff was not knowledgeable on my request and they even wrongly told me there was no chance to change the loyalty program selected during booking at all ( but the same employee did take out the originally selected program from the records ) . However it was no problem selecting the milage program to which to credit miles at online check-in .
As far as UAE is concerned , there is only one issue at hand - since you are not going to consume alcohol inside the UAE but on-board the aircraft ; where they do not check your religion . If you appear publicly intoxicated , you are breaking the law . That 's it . So , as long as you can " hold your liquor " , you 'll be fine . The problem is that " intoxicated " is not a defined in the law ; unlike the US and some other places there is no field sobriety test . Pretty much you are at the mercy of the official . So , if you appear Muslim and are smelling of alcohol ; this may get you in trouble - especially if you are not a UAE citizen . I would recommend a breath mint , mouthwash , or perhaps some other method of calming your nerves during flight . I know some colleagues they use sleeping aids to help them rest - but of course , take these at the advice of your doctor .
There is currently little consumer demand in the U.S. for NFC payments , for a number of reasons : Magnetic card swipe readers are ubiquitous ; in D.C. , I can use them not only at gas station pumps and for Metro tickets , but in vending machines and parking meters , and even in almost every mom-and-pop shop . There is a standards battle underway between Google Wallet , ISIS , LevelUp , Square , and other players which has divided the small market . Vendors and consumers alike are waiting . Apple has not gotten behind the technology , meaning it is not available on the most popular and arguably the most aspirational brand of devices without obtaining a hardware accessory . All mobile phone-based NFC payment technologies are newish , and not without their kinks . To relate an anecdote , in the time it took my co-worker to show off paying at the drugstore with his new phone -- to retrieve and unlock it , hold it up to the reader , be recognized , and receive the payment approval -- I could have retrieved my credit card , swiped , and put it away three or four times . As such , mobile phone-based NFC payments are very rarely accepted by independent establishments , and even some major chains are giving up on it for now ; <URL> . If you do want to use NFC , there are a growing number of options , but they are mostly with large chains . ISIS is accepted at McDonald 's and CVS ; Google Wallet is accepted at Walgreens and Five Guys ; Square is accepted at Starbucks ; and so on . The backers of the different NFC networks are striving mightily to promote them , so they will have web pages devoted to listing supporting vendors ; for example , you search can search by city or postal code for local <URL> and <URL> merchants , including vending machines .
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
Not really . There used to be one with American Airlines . There 's a reason they ca n't do it though , and it 's people like <URL> . He 'd fly to another country just for lunch , because he could . In today 's air travel climate , you need to make some money on each seat , it 's getting harder and harder to do with the competitive industry that it is . Jetblue tried it in 2009 . <URL> . At least , that was the answer a year or so ago . Suddenly , a couple of incidents have changed this . <URL> . There are lots of conditions , however . And now just two months ago <URL> is attempting to be a startup offering unlimited flights for $ 1500 a month plus free checked bags precheck and wifi . However , if you 're a semi-frequent business flyer you could clock that up pretty fast , so it 'll be interesting to see how long they last . However , aside from these occasional anomalies , there 's really no such thing any longer . It 's too expensive , and too risky for the airlines to do , aside from perhaps as a promotional ( short-lived ) endeavour .
There are some routes where this is applied ; for example from the ME to Asia there are special exceptions on luggage weight on some airlines ( Kuwait Airways , for example ) . A few airlines I have flown on before have such allowances ; but I have only heard of them for students and repatriation ; but not for immigration and then not between those two countries specifically . A while ago , there was some hope : Singapore Airlines offer a double baggage allowance ( from the usual 20Kg to 40Kg ) providing you are holding an unused migrant visa that states to remain in Australia indefinitely . If you hold a valid visa , you will be entitled to the double baggage allowance on production of the visa at check-in . However I can not find this reference anywhere on the current website .
According to the article in the <URL> it is possible as long as she 's in a female only area and hence you ca n't be with her . This information obviously is a little dated but the only area that is known for laxer regulations would be the island of <URL> but that information is even more dated . The most recent English news I was able to find is an <URL> so legally it is highly unlikely that regulations enforced for hijab would be laxer for bikinis .
According to <URL> : Wild camping , or use of camping accommodation outside the authorized campsites is strictly forbidden , with serious penalties ( By Law 2160/93 , article 4 and By Law 2741/99 article 21 ) . But I would n't take it too seriously since it is a site that lists all official camping sites . So they 're clearly interested that no one does wild camping . According to another <URL> ( this time only in German ) , free camping is not allowed but especially on Greek islands is widely accepted . You should just not camp inside villages . Wild-Campen ist eigentlich verboten , wird aber häufig auf kleineren Inseln toleriert . Wenn man es auf einen Versuch ankommen lässt , hat man außerhalb von Ortschaften meist mehr Glück . As an additional hint , I read in my message boards that one night should n't be a problem , but you should not stay more than one night in the same place . And if there is an official campsite just next to your free camping place , you will probably get more problems than in more remote areas .
One option ( that may not suit you exactly , but will be useful for other searchers of a question like this ) is <URL> . <URL> described it as the solution to the problem " Have you ever met that special someone on a plane but for whatever reason you did n't end up exchanging your contact details with each other and later regretted it ? Without their name , how are you going to find them on Facebook ? "
It appears that the requirements to import a cat to the U.S. may not be too onerous . The guidelines I have found for importing cats to the United States seem to indicate that they must simply be healthy ; it appears there may be surprisingly little paperwork involved . I just called the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) 's <URL> ( APHIS ) on the phone to ask about importing a cat from Ukraine . They confirmed that there should " not be too much worry " about importing a healthy cat , but referred me to the Center for Disease Control ( CDC ) , which has jurisdiction over animal importation to the U.S. , and to the California Department of Food and Agriculture ( CDFA ) . The CDC contact information is : And the phone number for California Department of Food and Agriculture is +1 (916)654-1447 . The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention <URL> says : A general certificate of health is not required by CDC for entry of pet cats into the United States , although some airlines or states may require them . However , pet cats are subject to inspection at ports of entry and may be denied entry into the United States if they have evidence of an infectious disease that can be transmitted to humans . If a cat appears to be ill , further examination by a licensed veterinarian at the owner 's expense might be required at the port of entry . Cats are not required to have proof of rabies vaccination for importation into the United States . However , some states require vaccination of cats for rabies , so it is a good idea to check with state and local health authorities at your final destination . All pet cats arriving in the state of Hawaii and the territory of Guam , even from the U.S. mainland , are subject to locally imposed quarantine requirements . The U.S. Customs and Border Protection department has some scary words : Pets excluded from entry into the United States must either be exported or destroyed . While awaiting disposition , pets will be detained at the owner 's expense at the port of arrival . USDA does not inspect or detain pets at U.S. ports of entry . However , they also seem to indicate that the requirements are not too complicated beyond simply having a healthy cat : The U.S. Public Health Service requires that pet dogs and cats brought into this country be examined at the first port of entry for evidence of diseases that can be transmitted to humans . The State of California <URL> says simply : All domestic cats must be healthy . A Certificate of Veterinary Inspection ( CVI ) , also known as a health certificate , is recommended . You should also check the U.S. Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) 's " <URL> " web site . Be sure to call your airline ( s ) to ask about the airline 's requirements for transporting your cat . You will probably have to reserve a spot for the animal on the airplane ( even if it is traveling with you as " carry on " ) and pay a fee . If your itinerary includes flights operated by multiple different airlines , you will have to contact each of them individually , and probably pay a fee to each of them too . Also be sure to check the requirements of any intermediate stops in your itinerary . For example , it may not be possible to bring your pet through Ireland or the UK ( or other islands ) . Obtaining an English-language health certificate with a stamp and signature from a vet might be helpful .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
The shortest crossings are the quickest and cheapest . So Dover/Calais is very popular . And the EuroTunnel train from Folkstone/Calais is effectively the same , but quicker ( 35 minutes compared with 90 minutes ) and more expensive . However you then have to factor in the drive to and from the crossing points , which costs both time and money . Hence a longer more expensive crossing may suit you better . For example the 10 hour crossing from Rotterdam to Hull is probably more time-effective than driving from Rotterdam to Calais and Dover to Hull . Other factors : Frequency of crossing . If there are only 3 ferries a day , then missing the ferry is a big deal . There are often 3 trains an hour , so no big deal to miss one , and indeed one often can get on an earlier train . Seasickness : some of these crossings ( North Sea , Bay of Biscay ) can be rough . 10 hours on a heaving ship may not suit you . Hence we do usually take the train . Some folks treat the sea voyage as part of the holiday ; it can be fun . Some longer crossings are over-night , and the ferry will have the possibility to book a cabin for a few 10s of pounds so with any luck you can get a good night 's sleep . For folks with limited holiday time this saving of a night can be a boon .
It appears not , <URL> : Making your booking and taking your flight The DEFRA Export Section ( Dogs and Cats ) will advise you of the current documentation and vaccination requirements for your destination . We will also require a health certificate from your vet to show that your pet is fit for air travel . When you make your booking you will need to let your travel agent or British Airways booking representative know that you will be travelling with a pet . Your pet will not be able to check in with you but will be handled professionally by British Airways World Cargo , a cargo booking will be required which can be requested through the local British Airways World Cargo booking office . On the day of travel , deliver your pet to the British Airways World Cargo Office . The travel container will be checked and the appropriate charges collected . Please check local payment options when making your booking .
end question
start question
How much should I tip for a private tour in India ?
Those tips seem way too high . To put those figures in perspective , legal minimum wage in Haryana ( state next to Delhi and one of the richest in India ) is 5,800 rupees/month , and there are plenty of unskilled workers ( live-in maids etc ) getting paid much less than that . If you tip somebody Rs . 1500/day for a month , he 's making almost 10x that ! I 'd revise those figures to something like this , but please bear in mind it 's been a few years since I was in India and these may be on the low side by today 's standards . Local Guides : INR 200/day for a personal tour ( on top of the agreed fee and only if he 's done a good job , that is ; do n't fall into the common trap of " pay me what you like " and then being pestered for silly amounts at the end ! ) Drivers : < INR 50 for airport transfers INR 100/day if it 's just point A to B , wait around , and back again . Maybe 200 if he 's driving you around all day . If he 's overnighting , his accommodations should be accounted for in the base price ; again , be sure to sort this out beforehand . Hotel Porters : INR 50 per bag Housekeepers : Hotels often have central tip boxes that get shared out to everyone , and ~ 5 % of your bill is generous ; if you want to tip the housekeeper alone , maybe INR 50/night ?
You need a bit more information . Are you going with a tour or solo ? I went solo and I do n't really know any Russian aside form what I picked up while there . I stayed on the Europe side of the Urals , and bounced between hostels . It is definitely more difficult to go solo , but with some pedimiming and patience , it is easy enough . Contrary to a lot of stereotypes Russians are generally nice , helpful people . I ca n't tell you how many pairs of nit socks I bought from the babushkas on the streets . If you smile and point , you should be fine . It really depends on how experienced you are at traveling . I do , of course , always recommend studying up on the culture and language A BIT before you go . Know some words and carry a dictionary . The ' Where is ... ( bathroom/police/embassy ) ' and ' I want ... ( food/water/beer ) ' set of words is pretty much required where ever you go .
There 's a bit of per-country variation , but the rule of thumb across Western Europe is that service charges are already included in the bill ( sometimes as a separate line item , sometimes not ) and it 's not necessary to tip in addition to this . If you must , and you usually would n't unless the service is really good , rounding up a euro or two to the nearest suitable number is sufficient . This is usually done only with cash , since the kind of places that accept credit cards tend to also be the kind of places with hefty service charges already in the bill , but you can usually tip by credit card as well the same way you would in the US : just write in the amount after tip and sign . Wikipedia has a fairly handy <URL> . Edit : Sigh . The OP asked about tipping in " Western Europe " , I 've summarized the rule for " Western Europe " , which is that tipping is generally not necessary . Of course there are exceptions and not every restaurant and every country is exactly the same , hence the link to Wikipedia , but the key point is that , unlike the US , you never have to leave 15 % in addition to the bill .
Here 's my recommendation as a former host of 30 + people on Couchsurfing . Step 0 Book commercial accommodation . You never know if you find someone or not , so it 's best to prebook something for the duration of your trip , and then cancel as late as possible once you have confirmations for a given night . Both Booking.com and Hostelworld.com allow free cancellations for up to 24 hours before check-in . Be aware that , unlike a hotel , hosts can cancel your stay at any time , so nothing is fully guaranteed . Step 1 Check how busy is the city which you plan to visit . NYC is going to be a lot more busy than Montpelier , Vermont . Step 2 Check if there are any special holidays around the days of your stay . I usually got as many as 20 requests for NYE in Prague , as compared to 1-2 requests for other days of the year . Another thing to watch out for is the current season . A lot more people visit Europe in the summer as compared to winter , for example . Step 3 Depending on 1 . and 2. , send a message anytime between 30 and 5 days . More for big cities and holidays , less for small cities at a quiet time of the year . Make you sure you state an exact date and an approximate time of arrival , as well as the exact number of people in your party . Try to message hosts who have logged into the website in the past 3 days , as this makes it much more likely that they will at least read your message .
Well at 6400km for 28 days , that 's around 250km a day ( allow extra for finding hotels , seeing sights , etc ) . That 's a LOT of driving . In 2005 , I did a trip around South Africa , where we drove 7100km in 23 days . We had some long days ( 800km ) and many shorter days , and it was doable , but wow we did get a bit tired of the car ;) At that rate , the 13 cities you 've mapped means about 2 days in each . That 's fine for Athens , but given you 're going through other cities as well , like Venice , where I assume you 'll also want to spend time , you may find it difficult as you 'll be rushing . Saying that , a 1/3 of it ( the final leg of 2000ish kms ) could be done in 3 long days if you push it . There 's just no way you 'll do that in one day . If I had to cut something out , it 'd be the detour down to Greece . Athens is meant to be great but can be done in a couple of days easily . You could do it on another trip and do a couple of islands at the same time . I 'd also recommend adding in Plitvice National Park in Croatia - it 's spectacular any time of year , and would n't be too much of a detour . In fact , if you can go down Croatia , Dubrovnik is a MUST-see , as is Mostar just over the hill in Bosnia . You could go Zagreb - > Plitvice - > Dubrovnik - > and then if you realllly want , back up to Belgrade , or just carry on to Skopje ... Trip looks awesome tho regardless , and afterwards you wo n't remember the pain of driving , you 'll just remember the cool things you saw ;)
There is no clear price information mentioned on <URL> . The easiest thing to do will be to call or email them . Their website provides this information : Baggage storage is exclusively available at the Airport Travel Agency , located on the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . The Airport Travel Agency is open daily from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No reservations are required for baggage storage . All baggage is x-rayed prior to storage . Rates are assessed per each 24 hour period that an article is in storage ( articles in storage for less than 24 hours will be subject to the 24 hour rate ) , and vary according to the size of the object . Please contact the Airport Travel Agency at 650.877.0422 or CF.Airport@gmail.com for additional information . <URL> says that the typical rates vary from $ 15 to $ 35 whereas the pricing on the <URL> is quite ambiguous and seems to not agree with the same . I would assume that your size luggage would cost approximately $ 25 but the best solution is to just ask via email . SFO offers only one staffed location where you can store baggage . Airport Travel Agency , located in the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , is near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . It offers storage for $ 15 to $ 35 per day depending on the size of items you are storing .
I was thinking a long time on how to best answer this question . Despite the tininess of Liechtenstein I think it is nevertheless necessary to concentrate on one specific part . So I wrote three answers in one . The first for persons who are interested in cultural life , the second for people how focus on some sports and the last one for people who want to party ! ( Yes that 's possible in Liechtenstein ;) ) Cultural Activities If you 're interested in cultural activities I would start the time with an aperitif at the prince 's winery . This winery is called <URL> . Since the prince has bought the country in 1712 he owns some vineyards . The result you can try and buy at the Hofkellerei . The wines are widely known in the region and you can particularly get Pinot Noir and Chardonnay there . After testing some wines I would stroll around the old town of Vaduz . It is n't really big but you can see there some old houses . In the afternoon you can visit a famous art gallery called <URL> . There you can see modern and contemporary art and also some of the prince 's private collection . In the evening you can go to one of the best restaurants in Liechtenstein . The <URL> is n't really a budget solution , but it really offers good food . It is located just above the prince 's vineyard and it is his majesty restaurant . The Lonely Planet writes : " The garden terrace enjoys a wonderful perspective of the castle above , while the ancient , wood-lined interior is cosy in winter " . Party time If you 're looking for some partying I would make sure to visit on August , 15th , the national holiday of Liechtenstein . We 're celebrating then the birthday of the former prince that is not living anymore . In the morning you can go to visit the prince in the garden of his castle . This is n't as boring as it sounds since you get there free beer and wine . There will be enough , since the prince is n't poor . It is assumed that he owns more than 5 billions swiss francs . From lunch on there is a big public party in whole Vaduz . You can drink , eat , dance , talk , etc there and it lasts until early morning . As soon as it gets dark , there is another gift from the prince ;) A firework is started at the castle that can be seen from the whole valley and lasts for approximately 40 minutes . ( This pictures says more or less : Hail to God , the prince and the fatherland ! ) Sports If you 're a sportive guy I would recommend to do a daylong hike in the mountains and then go watch a soccer game in Vaduz . Start early in the morning in <URL> . There a really famous hike route starts that will you guide through sheer mountains along the border between Liechtenstein and Austria . Almost the whole path is built out of rock and a lot of steel ropes are necessary to make it save for hikers . You will also have to climb some ladders . At the end of the route you have the possibility to mount three sisters . No joke , the mountain is called three sisters ( Drei Schwestern in German ) and it is one of the most famous mountains in this region . Judging from the picture above it is not sure that you can easily access it , but if you 're free from giddiness it is n't a real problem . I added another picture to show you the situation on the path : If you 're interested in this tour , I can recommend a <URL> that describes a lot of mountain tours in the Alps . It is not only useful for Liechtenstein , but also for Switzerland , Germany and Austria . In the evening when you 're back in Vaduz , I would recommend to go to a soccer game . I would choose a game against a very famous opponent . <URL> , but from time to time there are some attractive opponents , e.g. Germany , Spain , Portugal or England . All past games can be found <URL> . The actual events will be posted on the <URL> of the Liechtenstein soccer association .
Simple : tip daily , if you can . If you tip daily , your tips will definitely go to all the people who clean your room . If you tip at the end of your stay , your tip may or may not go to all the people who clean your room . Also , by frontloading your tips , you build up goodwill with the staff , and housekeeping will be happy to do you a favor if you need it . An extra towel or a few more bottles of water ? No problem !
The <URL> website provides vaccination advice . Check the vaccines and medicines list and visit your doctor ( ideally , 4-6 weeks ) before your trip to get vaccines or medicines you may need . For Yellow fever it states : There is no risk of yellow fever in South Africa . The government of South Africa requires proof of yellow fever vaccination only if you are arriving from a country with risk of yellow fever India is not on the <URL> . The recommended vaccines depend on which you already have , what country you live in , and your anticipated activities . For example , a rabies vaccination may be recommended if you are camping , but not if you are attending a conference . By the way , your doctor is probably going to be the best person to give you advice . He or she should be familiar with the vaccination requirements of your destination country , or at least be able to find them readily , as well as the applicability to you and your situation .
If you go to Hostelbookers ( generally a bit cheaper than Hostelworld ) and search by price , <URL> . In the high season when I was there last year it was still possible to walk into some hostels and get a bed , but not guaranteed , especially around weekends when more people travel and use them .
you could try <URL> or <URL> ; people there often have a spare room , and if you can pay for it they might be happy to give you a place for a few weeks and not just for a few days . Otherwise try <URL> , or <URL> .
I was in a similar situation before , I found out that drivers are on minimum wage and do not stick to office hours . Their employers usually summon them whenever they wish . So they will welcome tips and it might be a real help for them actually . The employer was a friend/colleague , and I noticed that she tipped him , he buys the stuff with his own money ( coffee or something ) then when she pays him back she gives a little more ( 10 or 20 pesos ) . When I was with the driver alone ( twice ) running my private errands , I tipped him at the end of the day , once 100 pesos and the second time it was 200 pesos because it was a few errands with many stops , he carried stuff for me as well , I did n't ask him but he insisted . The last day he just took me to the airport , I gave him a 10 USD bill as I was running out of pesos . I have n't asked a local about this specific situation at the time , but I know locals do tip drivers/waiters and I did that in my previous visits . I think my estimation was right because the guy seemed happy and helpful . You might not be obliged to do so , but it 's always a good idea to help people on minimum wages .
Yes , <URL> at most major land crossings , including those with India , for citizens of all EU countries . <URL> in advance will speed up things considerably .
Currently , there is unfortunately a lot of scaffolding going on in Neuschwanstein . I quote the official homepage : Restoration works at the western and northern façade Because of restoration works the western and northern façade of Neuschwanstein Castle will be scaffolded until the end of 2012 . We apologize for any inconveniences . The guided tours in the castle are not affected by the works . You can have a look by yourself using one of these two webcams . Unfortunately it is night now , so you wo n't see a lot ;) <URL> <URL>
Suggestion If you can not speak Indonesian , it is better for you to be always accompanied with an Indonesian you trust when making any contract . The hotel staffs might be the best choice because they can speak both Indonesian and English . As giving tips is common in Indonesia , just give them about 25,000 rupiahs for a 30 minute task . It should be enough to make them happy . :-) It is also better to mention the tips in advance so they get excited . Main answer Every motorcycle in Indonesia has both STNK ( Surat Tanda Nomor Kendaraan ) and BPKB ( Buku Pemilik Kendaraan Bermotor ) documents . When riding motorcycle , we need to bring the original STNK and driving licence . Keep the BPKB at home . As a result , when you rent a motorcycle , you must get the original STNK . You can not get the BPKB because it must be kept by the owner . The STNK looks like the following figure . How can you determine whether it is original or counterfeit ? It is a bit difficult . Even though registered number written in STNK agrees to the number plate , the STNK might not be original . So what can we do ? The most important thing you have to remember is the person from who you rent the motorcycle . Just take a picture with him/her . Cheese ... Making a copy of his/her ID card is common procedure . Please check the photograph . Unfortunately , the ID card might also be counterfeited .
As someone who has undergone the registration process many times ( including as recently as the end of 2014 ) , I can tell you that the " invitation letter " ( or anything to do with your invitation ) is completely irrelevant to the registration process - it is NOT on the list of documents required to register you as a foreigner . The person registering you can be anyone ( but they do have to have proof of ownership of the property where you 're being registered ) .
I would say that you do n't have to negotiate a price - usually driver just tell the price and you accept it :) However , you may get a " bonus " as a foreigner , but I do n't expect it to be more then 20-40 % . Regarding sample price for 100 km . According to my latest experience ( and google result ) , MastaBaba is more-or-less right - ~ 30 euros for bus for 10-15 people .
Here are <URL> that you mentioned . Okay , there are different kinds of accommodation in India and not every place is the same . If you are thinking of going to aforementioned hotel , you most likely wo n't be able to get the price down by haggling , only if you have a discount card or something . Besides , for such a hotel , the price seems pretty fair considering you 're traveling there in November which is considered high season . Also , as Paola mentioned , it 's kinda hard to haggle through electronic media ( not that it ca n't be done ) . On the other hand , if you do want to haggle , choose guesthouses . There are budget ones , that you probably wo n't like ( since you chose that hotel ) , mid-range guesthouses and premium , heritage guesthouses ( that have a five-star-hotel price range ) . In budget ones you can easily get a discount if you do n't mind using some tricks mentioned in the answer to the <URL> . I even got price down from 450 rupees to only 300 rupees and I stayed there just for three nights . You usually wo n't be able to get the price down too much if you plan on staying for a short amount of time . But if you have an itinerary that gets you back to the same city , try and explain that to the manager and tell them that you 'll be staying there again if he gets the price down ; be creative . For mid-range guesthouses , you can usually get a bargain if they have a couple of rooms available . If not , you 'll either have to pay the full price or get a discount from 1500 to 1400 rupees per night . You 'd have to be pretty good with haggling to get a better deal . And I believe that I do n't have to explain that there is no haggling in heritage guesthouses . If you had to haggle , you would n't be staying at such a place . The better the accommodation is ( and more expensive ) , the lesser is the chance to haggle . But you can always try and ask about it and see where it takes you . ( One more thing , not really relevant , but once I managed to get a huge ( and I do mean huge ) discount in the <URL> in Jodhpur just by explaining my situation , asking for a deal and by having luck on my side that time . )
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
Definitely not the platzkart ! I 'm serious , you 'll never get a calm trip if you are in there . Platzkart has additional side places across the train , so it 's up to 52 people there in a car compared with 4 * 9 = 36 people in kupe car . Also , if you have an upper place ( the even one ) , you simply can go upstairs , and rest for whole trip ( yes , there is a probability that your neighbors will try to speak with you , but it 's much less than in platzkart . Also in kupe you have doors to close and remove outer noises , which you ca n't do in platzkart .
end question
start question
Is it safe to check in luggage one day before at airport ?
Luggage gets lost when : It does n't make it to the plane on time , or It is sent to the wrong place , or It is stolen wholesale . Checking in early reduces the risk of # 1 , and has no impact on # 2 , leaving only case # 3 to worry about . Breaking that down in turn , there 's basically two ways for bags to get stolen : Opportunistic theft of arrived bags from the baggage area ( = guy in suit " accidentally " picking up your suitcase instead ) . Obviously checking in early has no impact on this . Professional gangs of thieves in the airport itself spiriting away bags . Typically they 've got one accomplice checking for juicy items ( cameras , laptops etc ) in the X-rays , and another taking the bags thus spotted . Now odds are the " steal or not " decision is made pretty much instantly ( " Hey Bob ! Make sure the purple suitcase for flight XY123 falls off the conveyor belt , mmkay ? " ) , but maybe having a lot of time helps ? So if you 're in an airport known for theft and you 're checking in something you really should n't be checking in , then you might want to check in as late as possible . But if you 're sensible and put all your valuables in carry-on luggage like you should , then you have nothing to worry about from these guys , and checking in early will reduce the overall odds of it getting lost .
Updates now state that the MLNA has given up on the Azawadian independence : <URL> <URL> After renewed fighting has pushed much of the MLNA into other battles , as well as the African Union refusing to accept it , it would appear that it 's a lost cause , and is viewed on Wikipedia as a ' former ' rogue state . This negates much of the political travel problems , however the problems of entering a war-torn zone still pose much trouble and danger .
If traveling with young children , airlines generally allow you to check in strollers for free . Unless the dimensions are completely ridiculous even after folding , it should be fine , but ring the airline in question to confirm if you 're worried . Do consider investing in a stroller bag or at least a heavy-duty garbage bag to pack it in , as this reduces the odds of damage if a dangling strap catches onto something etc. . ( Many airlines will in fact bag strollers for you for this very reason . ) Source : I 've personally checked in a <URL> with no problems , although this is a stacked , collapsible double stroller and not quite as wide as yours .
I travelled to Erbil two months back . You should not have any issues but it is not advised to stay for many weeks . The same is not the case with Kirkuk and Sulaymaniyah . During my stay I was advised to not leave Erbil city because of possibility of widespread terror attacks . However , i am not sure if this qualifies for all types of trips . It is not a place for tourism at this point of time . However , if you are on some sort of business trip it should be quite safe .
I think it is perfectly okay to reject housekeeping services at a hotel . I do this all the time . On arrival I set it up that the room is only serviced " on request " that way my things and other stuff does n't get disturbed . And most hotels are generally very happy to comply and appreciate it .
An american software engineer living in Japan gives a <URL> and why you should n't be afraid to travel there after the nuclear accident . Essentially , the summary is that Japan is very large . It 's unlikely that your travel plans as a tourist will be anywhere near the accident . Source : <URL>
Um . You might want to start by investing in a guidebook or at least flicking through <URL> . The airport and the " city " ( such as it is , Dubai is hugely sprawling ) are most definitely not within walking distance ; however , they are connected by the Dubai Metro , which will whisk you there in a few minutes . The only bit of the city that is really walkable is the souq in the " old " Dubai , next to Al Ras metro station , and you can always take an abra ( ferry ) across or down the creek . That said , Dubai is brutally hot for most of the year , so walking around is not feasible if you 're there in summer or anywhere near it . Yes , there is a <URL> at the airport , in each of the terminals in fact . The airport is ridiculously huge and you can while away hours there quite easily , especially if you 're even slightly into shopping . And as for if it 's worth spending more than a day , the answer is " it depends " . Do you like shopping in insanely huge shopping malls , resort hotels , and artificial attractions like the world 's tallest building , theme parks , aquariums , and indoor ski slopes ? Then the answer is " Yes " . But otherwise , probably not , especially if you do n't know anybody who can take you around and if you 're on a backpacker budget .
I think that your problem here would be that you ca n't provide proof of income ( to show you 'd be able to support yourself for a year ) without tipping them off that you would be working there but not paying income tax ( since your company is not located in Laos and therefore your income taxes would go back to France rather than stay in Laos ) . Therefore , it seems like your best bet to do this legally would be to ask your employer to " transfer " you to a local Laos address so that you will be considered as " working in Laos " . Then you can also get the 1-year business visa that your girlfriend got . If that is not possible , then the only option you have is to leave the country every month and try to get a new visa by coming back . As you said , this will work for at least the first three months . After that , it may still be possible ( some border patrol wo n't care as long as you pay the fee ) , but it is also possible they will say " sorry , you used up all your renewals " - so if you go this route , you need to have a Plan B to either go back to France or stay in a neighboring country or something . If you have been dating your girlfriend for a long time ( more than 1-2 years ) AND you already live together , then you may be able to get a year long visa by contacting the embassy , explaining that you have this relation and already live together , and see what they can do for it . I have read elsewhere that some people can get a 1-year visa to stay with their spouse , so it may be possible to get one for a long-term relationship as well . You would probably need to call someone and talk to them about it though . Whatever you do , do n't try to just stay in Laos with an expired visa - it 's not worth the risk IMO .
I 'm afraid that , as of December 2015 , the only public luggage lockers in the city Marrakech can be found : At the ONCF railway station , <URL> At the Supratours bus station , <URL> At the Gare Routière ( bus station ) at Bab Doukkala , ibid . At the CTM bus station , <URL> The other option is to ask your hotel to keep your luggage after you check-in . If you are planning on visiting the Jardin before checking-in I will also suggest that you show up to your hotel and ask them to store the luggage for you . Now I do n't know if you can enter the Jardin with a suitcase . You can always try .
Passports are your ID when traveling globally . Driver licenses and national IDs are not always accepted as a form of ID in many countries . As such everyone who needs to verify your identification will ask to see your passport . For flights to the USA , there is often several layers of security employed . The first is a security check before you reach the check in counter , with a number of questions regarding destination , what you might be carrying etc. . They will check your passport . When you check in for the flight , the airline will need to document your identity ( via your passport ) and also if you have the proper visas or permissions to enter the country , as the airline will be fined if they knowingly board you without proper documents . Departing Immigration is only concerned about your visit to their country , they could care less if you are permitted to enter the next destination . At the gate , another layer of the US imposed security will again check your passport , boarding pass and sometimes even look through your carry on bags . They may also ask if you have the necessary documentation to enter the country . Why this last security check ... because you could give your boarding pass to someone else after you have checked in , someone who has less than desirable ideas in mind . And as I mentioned in my comment , it is impossible for any of these people to know all the rules for all the passports that might be presented . Too many rules and exceptions .
Although originally advertised as such , to date there seem to be no luggage deposit service at Torino Porta Susa . Indeed <URL> return negative answers . <URL> <URL> : Piccola pecca : la stazione super tecnologica , celebrata come uno dei fiori all ' occhiello della città , non ha un deposito bagagli . E se si fa viva una viaggiatrice a chiedere lumi su come fare con zaini e valigie al seguito , la risposta di chi lavora in stazione è : " Non è previsto un deposito bagagli . Se proprio vi serve rivolgetevi a Porta Nuova " . <URL> in stating : There are no left luggage facilities at Milan Porta Garibaldi or at smaller stations including Florence Campo di Marte , Florence Rifredi , Rome Ostiense , Turin Porta Susa , Civitavecchia , San Remo , Livorno , Lucca , Siena ( though the nearby bus station has a facility ) , Montepulciano , Modena , Ravenna , Peschiera del Garda , Orvieto , Rimini , Brindisi , Lecce , Taranto , Reggio di Calabria , Salerno , Siracuse , Pompeii , Sorrento . <URL> The mayor replied stating that it 's a matter of security . I am somewhat doubtful since <URL>
Historically Seoul has had a number of issues with drinking water . Most recently the issue was n't the water itself , but the pipes that delivered it , which many people claimed introduced contaminates . I can still remember being told by someone I was working with there about 10 years ago that the water was safe to drink in my hotel , but not in their office block located a few blocks away - I 'm still not sure exactly how he came to that conclusion ! Over recent years the local government-run water supplier has made significant efforts to replace all of the " old " pipes , and has taken additional measures around treatment of water . The water is considered safe and drinkable under UN criteria , and although many locals still do not trust it , there 's little doubt that it 's as safe as tap water in any other major first-world city . There 's numerous more information available on <URL> website . Note that all of the above comments relate to the water in Seoul . If you 're heading outside of the main metropolitan area then things could be very different and I would suggest only drinking bottled water in those areas .
Generally , the most popular tourist destination for beaches are located on East and South coast of Korea . With some minor exceptions , I 'd avoid West coast in general because most of their beaches look like this : I know one of your primary concerns is proximity of the destination via public transportation , but what you must know is that Korea has one of the finest public transportation system in the world . Given its system and the size of the country , you could almost reach anywhere in Korea within 3 hours . My recommendations are Haeundae Beach in Busan ] or Gyungpodae Beach in Gangneung . Both locations have clean , swimmable water with lots of infrastructures available . It takes approximately two hours from Seoul to Busan via KTX + maybe an hour to take the bus in between to get to the station and to the beach , you could easily set yourself a foot on Haeundae within three hours . To Gyongpodae Beach in Gangneung , you 'd have to take a bus in Express Bus Terminal . It takes about 2 hours and 30 minutes by bus + 30 minutes to get to the beach . Some of the answers here mentioned Eurwangni . If proximity is an absolute must to you ... you COULD try Eurwangni I guess , but you 'll probably be disappointed . If situation allows , I really recommend you take a day or two to visit Busan or Gangneung . Aside from swimming , there are tons of other activities you can do .
Sorry for answering my own question , but it looks like all flights currently go through larger Yemeni cities , and traveling by boat is likely to be just as dangerous due to Somali pirates . From the <URL> : There is a high risk of piracy in the coastal areas of Yemen . There have been attacks by pirates against all forms of shipping in and around Yemen 's waters and the Gulf of Aden . Pirates have been using motherships to attack shipping further than 1,000 nautical miles ( 1,850 km ) from the coast of Somalia . All forms of shipping are attractive targets for Somali pirates , including commercial vessels , pleasure craft ( yachts etc ) and luxury cruise liners ... maintain a high level of vigilance and to exercise extreme caution when anywhere near these waters . According to the International Maritime Bureau 's ( IMB ) Piracy Reporting Centre ( PRC ) , there were 217 attempted attacks of piracy with 47 vessels hijacked and 867 crewmembers taken hostage in the Gulf of Aden and off the east coast of Somalia in 2009 .
Crossing into the West Bank itself is simply a matter of continuing on whatever road you were already on and passing a check point , ( though usually they are only checking anyone going the other way ) and it 's perfectly doable with an Israeli taxi , or any one else willing to take you there for that matter . Furthermore , it 's just as doable to procede from there into an Israeli settlement ; it 's just like driving into any other town . However , I would recommend finding out the best way to get there in advance from the person who lives there , as many roads can be much more safe than others . It is also perfectly possible to return to the fully recognized part of Israel , this time through an actual checkpoint , again in any Israeli vehicle . Whether you will have to pre - arrange depends on where you are ; your host will likely know local taxi options . However , for a journey to Tel Aviv it may be a good idea to pre-book regardless . In terms of general safety , both day and night it depends where exactly you are . But in all cases most likely people living there will say it 's safe enough for them to travel . At the same time there are other places that are probably statistically safer to be , so it really is up to your comfort level . This is another question that would be best for your host who is likely familiar with the exact roads you will be on . ( Also , obviously a taxi from Tel Aviv will cost quite a bit ) Getting to Palestinian towns from the west bank will be very different , as Israeli taxis will not go there , and there may be more security checks on the way in and/or out of the towns/cities . You will have to take an Israeli car into the west bank as above and then transfer somewhere to Palestinian transportation .
If you buy items at the Dublin Airport duty-free , ask the staff to place your items in a sealed bag . <URL> You will be allowed to take this bag through security , but it must remain sealed until you arrive at your destination . All liquid , gel and paste purchases will be placed in a clear plastic Travel Value bag and sealed at the point of purchase . The receipt must remain clearly visible . This bag must not be opened until final destination is reached . Opening or tampering with this sealed bag may result in confiscation at security check .
From <URL> : Switzerland is not part of the European Union and the currency is the Swiss franc ( or Franken or franco , depending in which language area you are ) , divided into 100 centimes , Rappen or centesimi . However , many places - such as supermarkets , restaurants , sightseeings ' box offices , hotels and the railways or ticket machines - accept Euro and will give you change in Swiss Francs or in Euro if they have it in cash . A check or a price-label contain prices both in francs and in Euro . Usually in such cases the exchange-rate comply with official exchange-rate , but if it differs you will be notified in advance . Changing some money to Swiss Francs ( CHF ) is essential . Money can be exchanged at all train stations and most banks throughout the country . Switzerland is more cash-oriented than most other European countries . It is not unusual to see bills being paid by cash , even Fr 200 and Fr 1000 notes . Some establishments ( but fewer than before ) do not accept credit cards so check first . When doing credit card payments , carefully review the information printed on the receipt ( details on this can be found in the " Stay Safe " section below ) . All ATMs accept foreign cards , getting cash should not be a problem . As they mention , there are ATMs everywhere , which is what I did when I went - I simply drew cash on arrival . I do this in all my travels - it 's convenient , and only ' failed ' in Buenos Aires where one of the airport ATMs was down , and in Uzbekistan ( Khiva ) where only one bank in town could let you draw money from my card type , and there were no ATMs .
I live in Singapore , and have taken ferries to Batam and Bintan ( another nearby island ) . Let me first clear up the confusion you have acquired by reading that page on Travelfish.org . They mention that the ferry to Indonesia takes " a couple of days " and " is no cheaper than flying . " They are not referring to the ferry to Batam , but rather to the overall journey from Singapore to Java , which as outlined in the article takes three legs , Batam being the first , easiest , and least significant . With that out of the way : these ferries are extremely safe . The terminal and vessels bear some resemblance to a small airport , and none to the sometimes-chaotic " bumboat " ferries that make short trips elsewhere in the region . The ships are proper ships , with proper seating , very seaworthy in appearance , and completely sealed against the weather ( which is often calm anyway ) . The ferry trip is not very long and the crew are professional . Singaporeans in general are not people who tolerate unsafe conditions ( and there are plenty of them taking these ferries , due to work and also the many golf courses in Batam and Bintan ) . Enjoy the trip . If it were n't for the interesting scenes of cargo ships everywhere , you 'd probably find it boring !
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
I also read a lot of blog posts and heard stories about bus travel in Peru being dangerous . However , all the ones I was on were pretty good . I travelled in semi-cama and full-cama class , with a variety of companies . No problems with any , and most were pretty good at being on time , unlike a couple I had in Argentina . I travelled at night from Cusco to Arequipa , Arequipa to Lima , Lima to Mancora and up to and crossed the Ecuadorian border at night too . No problems at all . I heard the same about Colombia too , people were shocked that I 'd travel , but think logically - these buses go through these areas every single day and night , several companies . If there were problems every day , it 'd be in the news . It 'd be huge . This does n't mean you will be fine . Odds are you will be , but accidents do happen occasionally , everywhere . Be aware , keep your valuables with you ( and NOT under your seat ) , and when possible , travel with someone else as well , or get to know the people around you .
end question
start question
Are there any legal restrictions on busking in Mexico City ?
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
Here 's my understanding ( based on lots of Russian travel ) : You can legally explore anywhere in Russia , except keep the following in mind : 1 ) Do n't forget about registration requirements . If you 're moving around a lot , this is likely a non-issue , but keep all your bus/train tickets , etc. . If you 're using a central hub city for radial day-trips , register in the hub city . 2 ) " Closed cities " : Some cities require a permit to get into ( typically ones with sensitive military-related industry ) . I do n't know whether it 's possible to get a permit unless you e.g. have a close relative there . Some cities ( e.g. many cities in the north of Krasnoyarsk Krai ) are closed only to foreigners , so locals may not know they 're " closed " . There 's a list here : <URL> 3 ) Border areas . Unless you 're in the process of legally crossing the border via an official crossing point , you need a border area permit to be there . The permit is possible to get but takes a long time ( around 2 months ) . Note that in some areas ( e.g. in the Arctic ) some areas may be defined as " border areas " despite being thousands of kilometers from the actual border . 4 ) Due to recent political tensions , I would STRONGLY advise to stay away from anything that is even remotely related to the military or any sensitive industry , especially if you 're carrying a camera , GPS-capable phone , etc. . Also , stay well away from any remote place with especially luxurious houses / " dachas " that appear to be well-guarded . 5 ) Some nature reserves have areas that are forbidden to enter ( or forbidden to enter without a special permit ) for reasons of nature conservation . These are usually marked . With all that said , seeing the little remote villages of " real Russia " can be very fun and rewarding !
I 'm pretty sure the answer is no , there are none . Even using a loose definition of Central Europe , there does n't seem to be any other than the " Drive-thrus " you mention . The closest I could find was <URL> , a drive-in movie cinema <URL> . This <URL> also showed up in my searches but I think it falls solidly into the category of ' buying takeaway food and sitting in your car to eat it ' , which you could do almost anywhere . There 's also <URL> , a resturant in Disney Village , Paris where they 've attempted to recreate a 1950 's , " Happy Days " feel and will present you with a . Sounds like the right atmosphere , but of course , no drive-in .
According to <URL> , you can find power oulets in the hallway . Even the <URL> . If you plan to use the plugs in the hallway , a good idea suggested by <URL> is to take a power strip along with you . Indeed , you may not be the only one in need of a plug !
This turns out to be surprisingly nuanced . In short , while officially discouraged , short-term rentals are legal , or at least not illegal , in Singapore . The Urban Redevelopment Authority ( URA ) , the Singapore government body responsible for private housing , <URL> that : Private residential properties or their rooms within the premises should not be rented out on a short-term basis for less than 6 months on a daily/weekly/monthly basis . And quite a few third-party sources go on to conflate this with the HDB 's legal prohibition on sublets , with the URA also <URL> . But a <URL> by James Chua , CEO of Singapore-based short-term rental company <URL> , quotes his own laywers : " ... the Guideline is not law as it is not codified in a statutory instrument . The URA , in response to a query from the public , made a statement in The Straits Times on 26 May 2012 in which it conceded that the Guideline was not a ' ruling ' , but stressed that the URA " issue [ s ] guidelines from time to time to provide transparency and clarity on how the URA exercises its functions under the Planning Act " ... " And goes on to summarize : Short-term renting is NOT ILLEGAL for private property The popular " 6-month minimum rental period " quoted widely in the press is not a law but a guideline by the URA ( Leasing guideline ) Owners of short-term rental homes should ensure guests do n't cause disturbance to the neighbourhood or they are at risk of getting in trouble with the URA The URA has the authority to take action only if guest causes disturbance to the neighbourhood . Singapore being Singapore , the URA will probably at some point " scare the monkeys by killing a chicken " and make an example of some poor Airbnb host who rented his apartment to a bunch of frat boys who terrorized the neighbours ... but at least for time being , it 's OK to host , and it 's OK to stay with a host . Yay !
Correos de México , run by Sepomex , is the national postal service if you 're sending a postcard . They have an office in the domestic arrivals area of Terminal 1 . Walk to the planta baja ( ground floor ) and look for the pink sign in Sala/Hall A , close to Puerta 2 -- they sell color postcards there too . Happy Travels ! Post office at Terminal 1 , domestic arrivals . Photo by <URL> , February 2013 .
I contacted the Guernsey Information Centre , North Plantation , St Peter Port , GY1 2LQ Email : info.centre@cultureleisure.gov.gg There response was simply : " Sorry we do not have hostels in Guernsey only normal camp sites "
If you attempt to book at <URL> site you could see the amenities that a train has . For example <URL> for April 5th lists that trains have restroom in them . P.S. Not sure that I would consider trains in Israel travelling long distances .
As you may know Iran is being managed by Islamic rules so there are many separated parts for men and women in mosques and buses and woman and man-only schools and nowadays classrooms are being divided according to the sex of students at universities too ! In order to tourism aspect it is interesting to know there are woman-only beaches for women in Persian Gulf beaches and Caspian sea because all beaches according to Islamic rules are man-only when you decide to swim ! But surely you can walk along shores with Islamic cover as a woman but not with a swimsuit ! <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> There are also many sport stadiums which are man-only in general but while there is a national or international ( for example International Muslim Women Games ) game they turn into woman-only stadiums during the game .
From the <URL> : Transit passengers who do not clear customs will not have access to any ATM in Incheon Airport . The only ATMs at Incheon airport are outside the sacred circle of customs . So if you need cash when you land at Incheon , you have to clear customs . There are two currency exchanges on the transit side that will exchange money into Korean won , as well as most stores/restaurants accepting US dollars and some other currencies .
Most <URL> indicate that now the Zimbabwean ATMs in Vic Falls dispense USD . <URL> indicates that : Barclays Bank and several of the other banks now have ATM cash withdrawal facilities accepting Visa and Master Cards and dispensing US$ cash . The limit is the same as your limit back home . Charges are $ 1.25 per transaction plus the charge from your local bank which can be 2 to 3 % .
There are ( practically speaking ) no direct flights from Luton to Finland . The <URL> on the airport website does include Ivalo and Enontekiö , both in Arctic Finland . However , if you click the corresponding " schedules " links , you see that these are one-off charter flights on the 5th and 20th of December , respectively , presumably to see Santa Claus in Lapland . Note that Ivalo and Enontekiö are both a very long way from Turku : about 12 -- 13 hours ' drive , according to Google maps .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
Unfortunately , ca n't find any official information in English or Russian . All I can say : <URL> you are not allowed to import any narcotics and medical drugs containing narcotics . <URL> ( link is in Russian ) is information about arrests for the holding drugs , and it is definitely because of Pseudoephedrine . So this type of drugs definitely has some serious restrictions in Georgia . Some forums are saying that you can import such drugs if you have a receipt from your doctor , but I ca n't guarantee that this is true information . So , if I were you , I would n't take such drugs for the trip .
Red Arrow has <URL> , but only one round trip , and only on Tuesdays . The Red Arrow Connector leaves Red Deer iHotel at 6:00 pm , after picking up at several other points in town , and reaches Rocky Mountain House at 7:15 pm . The trip to Red Deer leaves Rocky Mountain House at 6:05 am and arrives at iHotel at 7:20 am , afterward stopping at several other points in Red Deer . iHotel is the primary transfer point for buses going to and from Calgary and Edmonton . The buses stop in the west parking lot behind the hotel ; you will see a Red Arrow sign . Based on the <URL> , you should not have a very long wait to change buses , traveling in either direction . Red Arrow canceled its Rocky Mountain House service in June 2015 . As of now , there seems to be no public transit between these two towns at all . Of course , the town nearest to where you 're really going is <URL> , and this town has no public transit services at all . From my searching , I also was unable to find any shuttle services , as are common in the U.S. . The <URL> might know of such services ; it may be worth giving them a call and asking if they know of anyone who can arrange a ride for you from Rocky Mountain House or Red Deer .
Aceh 's sharia is pretty standard if strict stuff : No alcohol or gambling . No khalwat ( " proximity " ) between unrelated , unchaperoned men and women . This extends not just to the obvious ( eg . sharing a hotel room ) , but even dining together in restaurants etc. . That said , an unmarried Western couple can simply claim to be married , and they 'll most likely be just fine . Conservative dress for women : headscarf required , no bare arms , no open necklines , no tight pants/leggings or bikinis on the beach . Shops and restaurants close during prayers five times a day . Friday is a holiday , many shops are closed either entirely , or during/from the noon prayers . Sports , swimming etc is generally not appropriate . There is some confusion over whether sharia even applies to non-Muslim visitors . Legally , the answer appears to be " yes " , but in practice , not really -- I 'm certainly not aware of any visitor getting punished under sharia law . Enforcement also varies by region , touristy bits like the beaches of <URL> do n't really bother and even alcohol is widely available ( if pricier than usual ) .
Yes , having an Israeli stamp in your passport can restrict your ability to enter some Islamic and Arab nations including : Syria Lebanon Libya Kuwait Iran Iraq Pakistan Saudi Arabia Sudan Yemen What to do about it ? Here are some options ... Do n't worry about it -- If you are n't interested in travelling to any of these countries , it does n't matter if you have an Israeli stamp . This is the simplest option . Stamp separate paper - Israeli passport control is amenable to stamping a separate piece of paper rather than stamping your passport . However , be aware that this may not be sufficient for hiding your visit to Israel . For example , if you cross a border on land ( e.g. Jordan or Egypt ) , you will have the stamp from the nation on the other side of the border crossing , so not having an Israeli stamp is n't fooling anyone . Renew passport - Simply get a new passport after visiting Israel . Then you can travel on your new passport to any of the above mentioned nations . This is an especially good option if your passport is getting close to the expiry date and/or you do n't have any immediate plans to visit the countries in question . Second passport - Some nations ( at least in Europe ) will actually issue a second passport for the purpose of travelling to Israel . The US does not do this , however , it is n't hard to get a second US passport for other valid reasons ( such as needing to travel while your passport is away for visa processing ) . If taking this options , it is advised that you do not travel with both passports . Do not take a passport with an Israeli stamp to one of the listed nations even if you do not present it to officials as it may be found if your possessions are searched . It is probably best not to visit Israel and one of these arab nations on the same trip as it is harder to conceal the visit ( see note above about land border crossings ) . Other evidence of visiting Israel may also be problematic . I 've heard of receipt/stamps from a hostel in Israel as cause for ejection from an arab country . Source : written from memory though I believe most of the info came from the Lonely Planet guidebook
Yes there are at least two . How far far east do you want ? Slightly far east : There is a ferry between Vladivostok and Takaoka . There should be a ferry between Vladivostok and Toyama . ( There may be a ferry between Vladivostok and Niigata but reports say it 's discontinued for now ) Extremely far east : There is a ferry between Sakhalin ( Korsakov ) and far northern Hokkaido ( Wakkanai ) . If it 's something off the beaten path you 're looking for I 've been wanting to do the Sahkhalin-Japan crossing for a few years . If it 's something practial you 're looking for that may not be it ( - : Here are some useful links : <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , at least in Germany there are two kinds of " hostels " : The first kind of hostel and the one generally meant by " hostel " is the youth hostel ( Jugendherberge ) which is managed by the DJH . You need to buy a member card ( also available on the fly ) to stay there and if you are over 27 , you must pay the full price ( which is still very low for a year ~ 15 $ ) . You are also less ranked than young people so if the house has many young visitors you may not get a room . Additional info : In Bavaria , a state of Germany , it was forbidden until 2005 to stay at a youth hostel if you were over 27 . Perhaps your friend comes from there ? The other " hostels " are meant for backpackers and do not need a card as they are private . Both hostels are not so cheap anymore , I have found pensions and hotel rooms with much more comfort which were only slightly more expensive . So look out for room prices .
<URL> . Tourism Information Center ( Fonatur ) Ph : 84 29 59 ; Downtown Ave. Nader at Ave. Coba , SM 5 This is <URL> , although it 's worth noting that apparently they shorten street names , so the actual street name is Avenida Carlos Nader .
end question
start question
Would taking my used laptop to South Africa attract an import duty ?
Here 's a page from South African Customs that may be useful : <URL> As a practical matter , no . Personal effects that travelers bring in with the intent of bringing them back out at the end of a visit are generally exempt from duty , and South Africa appears to be no different in that regard . You are allowed to bring " personal effects " ( except for prohibited and restricted items , like illegal drugs or weapons ) without payment of duty , as long as you 'll be taking them back out of the country with you . This is why your clothes are n't subject to duty either . You can also bring 5,000 Rand of goods duty free , such as gifts you plan to leave in South Africa . You can see this on the <URL> you 'll be asked to complete as well : Personal effects and/or sporting and recreational equipment are duty and tax free if brought in by : Visitors for own use and if goods do not remain in South Africa Now , for some valuable items , it 's possible that they 'll want a deposit , to make sure that you do n't plan to leave the goods behind and evade payment : Please note that you may be required to lodge a cash deposit to cover the potential duty/tax on expensive articles if you are bringing them in on a temporary basis . The deposit will be refunded when you leave after a Customs officer has physically inspected the items and verified that the goods are being re-exported . Visitors must notify the Customs office where the deposit was lodged at least two days before you leave to ensure that the refund is ready . You will find the office number on the documents which will be given to you when paying your deposit . If you are leaving from a port other than the port where you lodged the deposit , the inspection report confirming the re-exportation of the items will be forwarded to the office where the deposit was lodged and a cheque will be posted to the address that you provided . A deposit requirement like this for an ordinary business traveler 's laptop seems quite unlikely to me . Travelers routinely bring their used laptops and other common electronic items with them to many countries without incident or charge . In the very unlikely case that Customs believes you plan to leave the laptop in the country , they have the right to require a deposit , which you can reclaim on your way out after you present the laptop . It would be a good idea to have some kind of proof that you bought the laptop in India and paid taxes on it there , so you can demonstrate to Indian Customs officials that you are bringing it back and should not be charged duty on it .
Based on the article you linked and WHO documents , if you are entering South Africa through Zambia , Yellow Fever vaccination is n't required anymore . According to WHO 2015 , Zambia is not considered a country with risk of infection . You can see the changed requirements from South African immigration here ( search for South Africa ) : 2013 where <URL> and <URL> in line with new WHO assessment . You mentioned " not limited to " transit from Zambia . Make sure your other transit countries are not listed as at risk by the WHO ( check out this map for countries with solid red ) or the WHO 2015 list ) or ensure your transit is limited to the airport for less to 12 hours ( c.f. South Africa section ) . who.int / ith/2015-ith-annex 1.pdf ? ua = 1 ( Sorry do n't have reputation points to include more than 2 links ... ) You could double check by contacting the South Africa Dept of Health - switchboard : 012 395 8000
<URL> . Or for a picture version ( albeit comparing them to Australian plugs , but at least it shows you ) - <URL> . Basically , international outlet/plug types A and C , and they run at 220V/50Hz . Coming from the Netherlands , you will need an adaptor .
Go with a reputable company such as DHL , estafeta , or redpak , like many others have suggested . These companies procidr quotes online . Of course get insurance on it . Customs are not due when shipping from mexico to US , its usually the other ways around . The shipping company will tell you if there will be any custom fees though . They would be paid once in the states . DhL will bill you via mail . I can tell you though it will be expensive , paperwork sent to me was like 50 bucks . Also , packaging isnt usually available for purchase at these places like in the states . You would have to have purchased your own shipping box and tape prior to going to the shipping office cause thats another thing , they dont have pick up service . ( this is true for 3 non-turist cities in mexico , hermosillo , culiacan and tijuana ) So if you can leave the laptop at home , that would be your best choice if you want to save some time and money . Otherwise take ur packaging materials , expect to pay more than 500 pesos and ask the hotel reception for assistance if you dont speak spanish . One more thing the peso exchange rate is 15 havent seen it this high , you may want to exchange some pesos now . Its expected to get up to 16 in june of this year though if u want to take ur chances . Hope this info helps , have a safe trip :)
Simple rule , if the employer 's name was annotated in the visa page , then you should apply for another visa . If the employer 's name was not annotated there , then you can use the same visa , just make sure to bring what proves your business . In general , the visa is issued to the person himself to conduct certain businesses ( short training , meetings , negotiating contracts , etc ) . So even if you go to the US while with your current employer , you should present some documents for whatever business you are conducting there . In addition to that , nothing is mentioned in the <URL> about changing the employer . P.S. I had first hand experience since I am a B1/B2 visa holder . UPDATE Here is a copy ( after modification to hide some important info ) of my old annotated visa , my company 's name and my job was clearly mentioned . This is the new visa , it has no annotation whatsoever , and I used it to enter US to attend a seminar , I had to show the invitation letter at the airport anyway :
It depends on how you weight fast/cheap/comfortable and how far south you 'd like to go . My suggestion would be to take the <URL> ( $ 7 , ~ 45 min ) , then take Amtrak 's <URL> , which starts at $ 17 to Irvine ( 59 min ) and $ 22 to San Clemente ( 88 min ) . The Pacific Surfliner is reliable and clean , and bypasses the 405 freeway 's notorious traffic . There is WiFi provided , although reviews of it are mixed . A cheaper alternative is the <URL> , though there is no WiFi , and the trip is slightly longer as it is a commuter train and will make additional stops . You could also take an airport shuttle and save a little bit of time for about twice as much money . The main advantage is that you 're on the same vehicle door to door , so no waiting or luggage fumbling during transfers . South O.C. is a long way from LAX , however , and you may be forced to wait while they fill the van and while they drop off everyone else . Best case scenario with no traffic , you arrive in Irvine in an hour , but it can easily be triple that . The two <URL> concessions are currently SuperShuttle and PrimeTime , and there is also <URL> if you reserve in advance . It is a pretty straight shot down the 405 , but getting a one-way car rental from LAX to SNA can vary considerably in price . I just tried it now and was quoted $ 96 , and after adding fuel and insurance it would be more convenient simply to take a taxi , which <URL> estimates at $ 150 . There are other combinations of buses and trains that are possible , but these will take considerably longer and require multiple transfers . My favorite way to get from LAX-SNA was by Embraer 120 ; sadly , Skywest ( dba United Express ) discontinued those flights years ago .
Euston Station itself also has free wifi , but power points are tricky and it is super busy/noisy . I would highly recommend the <URL> which is just down the road ( see the website for a map &amp; opening times ) . It has everything you need - free wifi ( you will need to sign up ) , powerpoints , toilets , coffee shops . There are even a few exhibits if you want to take a break and stretch your legs . Just go in , find a seat on one of the many floors , turn on your wifi and log in to the library ( BL visitor from what I remember ) and follow the instructions . There is a little more info on the website , or when you arrive there is a huge information desk ( you really ca n't miss it ) .
I was back-packing in Latin America for 20 months and took my camera everywhere . But it was only a 400 dollar point and shot which fits in my trouser pocket . I used that camera everywhere maybe except inside the favelas in Brazil . Some friends of mine had bigger SLRs with them and used them a lot too . In Bolivia I met a guy who was there for National Geographic and had some of the biggest photographic gear I 've ever seen . I find quotes like ' nearly every corner of their city is dangerous ' ridiculous , I walked around all over the place in most big cities in South America , but was more careful in the dark . If you are primarily after landscape and animal pictures , you should be fine . In the cities , keep the big gear in a bag and use a smaller camera instead . I made two backups of new photos every evening and stored them in different parts of my luggage . You can always get a new camera , but the photos are gone if the camera is stolen . Online backups are not always possible due to slow internet access . My camera was eventually stolen in La Paz .
I have flown from the USA back to Asia with cured meat products ( southern hog jowls ) without issue . I freeze them before I go , then wrap with some insulating materials . It survives some 24 hours of traveling without a problem . Usually at intermediate airports there is no health inspection , so there should n't be a problem in Italy ( unless you have separate tickets that require rechecking bags in Italy )
As of July 13 , 2013 , permits are no longer required . <URL> for this : Can I import Absinthe or oil of wormwood into Australia ? The controls on the importation of ' Oil of wormwood ' and products containing ' oil of wormwood ' , have been repealed from the Customs ( Prohibited Imports ) Regulations 1956 . Permission is no longer required in order to import these products . Here 's <URL> .
I assume the numbering of mileposts is to match the numbering of the U.S. Interstates themselves -- west to east interstates , which have even-numbers , are numbered from south to north ( i.e. I-10 runs through southern states , and I-90 runs through northern states ) . Likewise , south to north interstates , which have odd-numbers , are numbered from west to east -- I-5 runs along the west coast , and I-95 runs along the east coast . Note that this is the opposite of the US Highway system -- north to south routes grow larger from east to west . US Highway 1 is on the east coast , and the old US Highway 99 ( which is now no longer a US Highway ) ran along the west coast . Likewise , US Highway 14 runs through several northern states , and US Highway 82 runs across several southern states . I believe the reason the Interstates were numbered opposite of the US Highways was to avoid confusion , i.e. when talking about route 5 along the west coast , you know the person is talking about an Interstate , not a US Highway .
<URL> operates a car ferry between Hirtshals ( Denmark ) and Seyðisfjörður ( Iceland ) , via Tórshavn ( Faroe Islands ) , generally making one trip per week .
According to Timatic ( the source used by most airlines ) , YES , a US citizen visiting South Africa DOES require an onward ticket , although there is an alternative . This is the relevant section : R38 ) Ticket ... . Immigration authorities may request visitors and transit passengers to prove that they will depart from the country within the prescribed period , by showing a return or onward ticket to their next international destination . Unless stated otherwise , return/onward ticket is defined as : a. International airline ticket ( i.e. any types of airline tickets , reservation confirmation , booking code etc. ) ; or b. Evidence of departing from the country by other means of transportation ( e.g. confirmation of joining a cruise , train , bus or ferry tickets , proof of departing by private boat or plane , etc ) . Technically there is a provision for visitors arriving without a return ticket , which is : Warning : - Visitors arriving without a return or onward ticket will be required to pay a refundable deposit in lieu of ticket . Failure or inability to pay this deposit will result in refusal of entry . There is no mention of how much the refundable deposit is , or how it must be paid . In general , your airline will confirm that you have an onward ticket before you board your flight , and it is possible that they will not consider the deposit clause when refusing you access , so it may not be a good idea to rely on that if possible . You may be able to work around this by purchasing a fully refundable ticket for the return , and then cashing it in once you have arrived in the country . If you are caught doing this you can expect to be immediatley deported - but realistically the odds of that happening are small . If you have frequent flyer miles , it 's worth checking if you can use them for such a flight - even if there is a fee for canceling , it 's frequently less than for a normal ticket , and you wo n't have to tie up your money in order to buy a full fare/refundable ticket . South Africa also requires that : Visitors are required to hold proof of sufficient funds to cover their stay and documents required for their next destination . So if you book your onward ticket to a country other than the US , make sure that you have the required documents for that country as well !
As a rule of thumb , if <URL> , its airlines will not accept them either . In the Middle East , this means primarily Iran Air , Kuwait Airways and Saudia are off the table for your itinerary . There are a number of minor carriers in the region that would also refuse you in theory ( MEA , Iraqi , etc ) , but as far as I 'm aware none fly to India , so these would not be an issue in practice . ( To be quite precise , Iraqi actually does fly to India , but it 's banned from the EU ! ) However , note that the five biggest players -- Emirates , Etihad , Qatar , Turkish and Gulf Air -- do accept Israeli citizens for connecting flights .
The answer is to go to VFS office with your pasport , a cover letter stating that the visa needs to be corrected , sharing additional details or any details which prove why the visa given was wrong and what correction is required . Make sure that the correction you need is spelled out both in letters and numbers ( if its dates ) . Make sure to use BOLD and LARGE letters to emphasize the changes you want . VFS does n't charge you for this service and is inclusive of the charges you had already paid before .
The general advice when bringing medication is bring it in the original packaging . In the case of the prescription this includes the sticker with your name , doctor 's name , date etc. . Never just bring two or three loose pills in some other container if you have a copy of the prescription , or your receipt with your name , bring that too if the item does n't require a prescription where you live , but is controlled where you 're going , bring a letter from your doctor ( something I did recently bringing Sudafed to New Zealand ) declare on the landing card if they ask about medication ( do n't just say yes to the question , circle the word in the question , see <URL> ) and be prepared to answer questions about your landing card My experience coming into a variety of countries ( but not the UK ) with prescription drugs is that they ask " what medication do you have ? " and I say something very short , eg " antimalarials for Vanuatu " and that 's the end of the conversation and nothing happens . But you need the paperwork etc to back you up in case they want more details . Since you have no paperwork and probably do n't have the right container , do n't make things worse by not declaring . If the landing card asks about medications , say yes . Be prepared to tell someone what the medication is and what it 's for ( eg " an antibiotic " or " for my asthma " or whatever it is . ) It 's most likely that no-one will care , but if you run into someone who does , the fact you were open about having it is more likely to get you through without your meds confiscated .
Since Turkish Airlines offers <URL> to passengers with layovers like yours , you 're going to want to tell them . You might prefer a free stay in a hotel instead , but I would go for the tour . The FAQ does mention : There is luggage custody office next to Hotel Desk with a service fee . You may check the conditions and prices ; <URL> . If requested , touristanbul participants can leave their luggages ( unless they are electronics or precious items ) to the assigned tour shuttles at their own risk . It sounds like everyone can use the Baggage Custody Services , and in addition if you do n't want to pay for that , you can bring your baggage on the tour and leave it on the shuttle bus . But talk to the airline , because you may just be able to check it right through and not worry about it .
Assuming you are flying on a regular scheduled flight ( clearly , you are ) , it is always included in the final price of the ticket . It is paid for by the operator ( i.e. the airline ) . Source : <URL> .
The travel desk at my hotel has made some calls so I 'll share the information . Three days left is no problem . It will be ready tomorrow afternoon much faster than my hotel in MCMC ! It will cost USD $ 40 $ 20 cheaper than both my initial visa and the price I was quoted by my hotel in HCMC . Actually there was a misunderstanding about when I should pay so my hotel actually took my passport one day later , when I had only two days left on my visa ! And I did get it back the same afternoon . And it did cost only USD $ 40 . I have n't checked any other hotels or travel agents but my hotel was Hotel Tulip Xanh , which has a travel agent on the ground floor . So if you have trouble finding the same or lower place anywhere , this is a place to come . Their address is : 80 Hải Thượng , tp . Đà Lạt .
It 's a great question , because all three airports are completely different in how they operate when it comes to rental cars and even to some extent hotels . First , rental cars . They all have one thing in common for rental cars - there are no " in terminal " rental car locations ( although SFO is close ) . Los Angeles uses the older style bus-to-the-rental-lot concept . You stand on the curb and flag down the bus going to whichever rental car company you 're renting from when it comes along . Depending on the company , the time of day , and how lucky you are you might wait for 10 seconds , or you might wait for 10 minutes . Las Vegas has a large " Rental Car Center " , which is located a shuttle bus ride away from the airport . However unlike Los Angeles , it 's a single bus for all rental companies . Rather than a curb-side pickup there is a dedicated stop at the airport where there are always buses waiting , and they normally leave every few minutes . It is however an approximately 7 minute ride to the rental car center . San Francisco also has a single rental car center , however it 's located at the airport , and is accessible via the free airtrain that runs between airport terminals . The trains come every 1-2 minutes , and the ride to the rental car lot only takes a few minutes ( depending on which terminal you get on at ) . So between the three , San Francisco wins as being the more convenient , especially if you have luggage as you can take luggage carts all the way to your car ! Las Vegas is a distant second , with LAX being a close third . Hotels next . It depends what you 're after . Los Angeles and San Francisco have a much higher number of " airport hotels " which are very close to the airport . If your simple goal is to get to a hotel and recover from your flight , then Los Angeles probably wins , with San Francisco a very close second ( only because there 's slightly less hotels , and they can be a little more expensive ) . If you want to get to a " downtown " hotel , then Vegas will come out in-front , as the airport is much closer to downtown/the strip than the other two . San Francisco is probably second only because you can optionally skip the car and catch public transport there ( BART ) , but that 's only useful if you 're not picking up a car at the time . If you are headed " downtown " , keep in mind that parking in both San Francisco and Los Angeles is far from cheap - whilst in Vegas it 's free almost everywhere ! Now , time to think out of the box ! The problem with renting cars from any of the 3 airports above is that they all tag on a fairly sizable fee for picking up the car from the airport - and it 's normally a per-day fee so if you 've got the car for a while it can add up . San Francisco and Los Angeles in particular have a number of hotels near the airport that have free shuttles to/from the airport , and have on-site or near-by rental car companies . For example , the LAX Hilton has a Hertz office inside , and there are numerous hotels with airport shuttles that are within short walking distance of the Hertz and Avis offices in South San Francisco ( plus Hertz , Enterprise and probably others will both " pick you up " from a nearby hotel if needed ) . Especially if you are planning on going straight to the hotel , then catching the free shuttle to the hotel and then picking up your rental car the next morning from an off-airport location can save you a lot of money . Vegas is a little different if only because there are no free hotel shuttles , so you 'll need to catch a taxi/paid shuttle to the hotel - however otherwise it 's the same . Depending on what you 're planning to do in Vegas you might even want to go the first few days without having a car at all , and then you can rent one from any number of hotels along the strip that have rental agencies inside - saving both the airport fee and a few days rental . Keep in mind that rates can vary between airport and non-airport locations , so make sure you check both to get an idea of what 's available !
end question
start question
How Safe are Train Rides in the U.S. ?
I 'm assuming you mean onboard . It 's perfectly safe . I 've travelled from Washington , D.C. to Chicago , and down to Austin , Texas ( two and a half days ) . I 've also done a bit in the Pacific North West , and from NYC to Phily . So I feel I can speak on this a bit . ( I also did a LOT of it in Canada on a coast to coast trip , but that was split up with buses too ) It 's actually my favourite way to travel . Buses are cramped , anti-social , and you have awful places to stop and eat . Trains - well the ones I used , often had wifi , comfy seats , were easy enough to sleep on ( using two seats , but sleeping sitting up works too ) , power points at your chair . In other carriages there were viewing deck carriages with chairs that faced outwards , and snack cars where you could socialise and meet other travellers . People seemed far more open than on buses . I 've done a lot of Greyhound travel in the US , and that was never fun . Some odd types , full on fist fights in front of me , people doing drugs , and buses breaking down ( these were just the worst cases , not every trip ) . The train ran late into Austin , but that was about it . For reference , there seems to no longer be a direct coast to coast , which was what I planned too . I took the <URL> from DC to Chicago , and then from Chicago I took the <URL> down to Austin , and then if you continue on that it does end up in Los Angeles . Not <URL> . Safety wise , I never felt unsafe , and sure , an opportunist might have pick-pocketed me while I was asleep if they were really good , but I 've usually locked up my bags or have them under my feet if I 'm dozing anyway . If you actually mean the trains themselves , <URL> to improve the safety of rail throughout the US , to force rail companies to adopt measures to further improve their systems .
The Galilee region of Israel is considered quite safe , and is not near any of the hot spots you are concerned about . You 're more likely to be bitten by a scorpion . The <URL> goes into some more detail , and says in part : The Galilee region is quite stable . There is always some risk associated with hiking and camping alone in any part of the world , but the risk in the Galilee region is very minimal ... While the media often portrays Israel and Palestine as perpetual hotspots of violence , the tourist areas of the region are generally very safe with a high level of security . Tourists have not ordinarily been targets of violence in the region , and politically motivated violence in Israel has been low for the past two years .
" Usual " sales opening To complement other answers , indeed the sales start exactly 90 days in advance on most trains - TGV and Intercités as @audionuma quoted . Be careful though , some trains like regional ones have specific fare policies that include different starting dates , and that depends on each region ( e.g. I tried on the <URL> and I could add a ticket to the cart for a trip in 1 year ) . The price and availability does not vary on these regional trains so no need to book in advance though . However , some products sometimes have different policies on the starting date , in particular iDTGV , Ouigo , TGVs and Intercités . Unusual : TGVs and Intercités for school holidays For the TGVs and Intercités , there are three periods of the year when tickets may be sold earlier : Christmas , winter holidays ( usually in February ) and the summer . If you have a SNCF fidelity card or are a member of Capitaine Train , you shall receive emails warning you in advance of the sales opening for these popular periods . Here I quote an email received on March 28th that sales for the summer ( until August 30th , the last sunday of the summer holiday period ) opened on April 2nd : Pour vous remercier de votre fidélité , nous avons le plaisir de vous informer en avant-première de la prochaine ouverture des ventes de billets de train pour voyager cet été ! Tenez-vous prêt ( e ) ! Le 2 avril dès 6h , TGV et INTERCITÉS ouvrent les ventes pour vos voyages jusqu'au 30 août 2015 en France et quelques destinations en Europe ! I received similar emails for other periods , so in the end the advance booking was available as follows : on November 7th 2014 sales opened until March 9th 2015 on April 2nd 2015 sales opened until August 30th on October 16th 2014 sales opened from December 14th to February 6th These are indicative dates , if you plan on travelling for popular periods and want to take advantage of low prices , you should expect to book around these dates in future years . Unusual : iDTGV and Ouigo For Ouigo , a service intended for low-cost travel , and for iDTGV , another TGV service , the dates are different : on October 1st , 2014 , sales opened for Ouigo until July 6th , 2015 on September 16th , sales opened for iDTGV until March 29th , 2015 So in the end while the common rule is that sales are opened about 3 months in advance , this varies a lot depending on what train you want to take . If you want to travel during school holidays in particular , the sales opening may be earlier ( or later ) than the usual three months . If you want to be notified by email of these sales openings , you can signup for an account at <URL> or <URL> .
Egypt , as like much of North Africa and parts of the Middle East , is volatile . <URL> of the US has a comprehensive website detailing the latest information on the country . It points out that while crime is relatively low , there has of course been several incidents of protests , riots and political upheaval over the past year . In the end , it is always going to be a gut feel thing . Many tour companies are offering 2 for 1 deals to get people to return to Egypt . People point out that apart from an <URL> , the violence has largely not targeted foreigners . Anecdotal information from friends who have been since the uprising say that they felt entirely safe . Tour companies are going to have the latest information and will know which areas to avoid . The election may change things dramatically , but given it looks to be the first ' free ' elections in decades , it may be a good thing , with celebrations rather than protests . If you 're not going anyway until 2012 , perhaps wait . I booked a tour over Christmas 4 years ago with 2 weeks notice , and given the situation , you should n't have a problem finding a tour or flights around then . In the end , as the state department website says , " There is nobody better at protecting you than yourself . " . Be careful , keep informed , be safe .
TL ; DR : Yes . The Northern Territory is huge , and spans a range of climates from sopping-wet tropical to bone-dry desert . The <URL> ( Dec 2015 ) are primarily around the Daly River/Waters region , several hundred kilometers south of Darwin , and both Darwin itself and the tourist hubs of Alice Springs and Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , over 1000 km to the south , are entirely unaffected . All three have direct flights from Sydney . All that said , it 's <URL> right now in NT , meaning the tropical bits get a lot of rain even when it 's not outright flooding . Down at Uluru though , it 's summer and thus very dry and hot .
That is more or less correct . Tickets are available starting 5 days before departure and have to be bought in person . Travel agencies can act as a proxy to buy on your behalf , but they also have to physically go to the train station to buy your ticket . I would guess this agency 's specification of dates has been simply padded a bit to cover things like holidays , weekends or such that might delay buying or sending tickets .
According to this <URL> ( as of March , 2016 ) Out of more than 1 million visitors/day , only 367 visitors are denied entry and deemed inadmissible , that 's like 0.03 % . There 's no mention of specific visa types .
There were many crimes ( a few cases of rape , mostly theft , robbery , and assault ) during the <URL> which have been attributed to young migrants from North Africa . The police underestimated the situation and mishandled the aftermath . Under German law , rape is distinct from sexual assault . According to Wikipedia , there were three rape cases . Similar crimes happen at a much lower rate at trouble spots like the Kottbusser Tor in Berlin . Bavaria has a reputation for being tough on crime , especially at events like the Oktoberfest . Summarized , you should be pretty safe unless you end up drunk in a dark alley at 3 a.m. That 's dangerous anywhere in the world .
The Bhutanese recognize dietary needs very well , as a large portion of the population have specific dietary needs ( vegetarianism is largely observed ) . However I also have oral allergy syndrome and I find that it 's not a largely understood form of allergies . Depending on your severity , but most of their food is quite simple ( limited in ingredients , heavier on spicing ) , so you should be able to pick the foods that you 're in the clear for . Good luck , and hope you like Yak-related products :-)
If you are traveling with a Canadian passport . From the <URL> : Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require visas to enter the United States , for visit , tourism and temporary business travel purposes . For more information see <URL> , U.S. Consulate Hamilton website and <URL> . . Additional resources for Canadian visitors to the United States can be found on the U.S. Embassy and Consulate websites in Canada . If the CBP officer asks for the purpose of the visit you can tell him that you 're meeting with a prospective employer .
I often just look up the Wikipedia article for the airline . So for example , when in the ' stans earlier this year , I was considering airlines like <URL> - which as soon as you start reading the article , you 'll find it 's on the list of airlines banned from flying over the EU ... , which quickly made up my mind about it . Although they were cheap ... <URL> is a rather handy one , as it comes down to banning them due to not being up to scratch safety-wise , or for known poor levels of maintenance .
While there 's always an inherent possible risk with these types of sites ( VBRO , AirBnb , even hostel websites ) - for the most part , they work fine - otherwise they would n't work ! Always look at any reviews on the property/owner - if any , and see if there have been any noted problems in the past . Perhaps Google the address or property as well , just to make sure it is where it says it is . If there 's a phone number , you could call to double check on some aspects - what 's included , and so on . However , if you 're really paranoid , or cautious - say , if you 've just put down $ 1000 on a rental , you could consider their <URL> , where from $ 39 , they 'll cover you for up to $ 10,000 in fraud , misrepresentation or even just a double-booking .
You can find the schedules on the webpage of <URL> , the company running this train . On such a trip I would not worry that much about timeliness . The train stops plenty of times on the road for sightseeing . If ever it is late there should be room to catch up the delays . This is also stated in the <URL> . As far as safety is concerned , you can be sure that the petty crooks you worry about wo n't be able to get on board . As a regular passenger they wo n't because the price is way too prohibitive for them and I do not know how they would do as stowaways ... Okay , the staff might steal , but that risk also exists in hotels . This risk should be smaller on the train , as they will have much more trouble to hide the stolen goods ... Anyway , for the money it costs , one can assume that the trip is well planned and organized and that you should not care about schedules . Moreover , you can assume that the company will do an awful lot for their customers ' safety .
I would be cautious . So as to stay in peace with <URL> , I would refrain from drinking tap water in Morocco .
I found a website <URL> . The quality/price range is quite significant , so it might be worth not grabbing the first thing on the shelf but rather going for a specific product . The one that the above website gave the best rating is available <URL> for example .
I drank bubble tea in Hong Kong practically every day when I was travelling there but never fell ill . ( Love bubble tea ! ) The way bubble tea is packaged in machines that seals the drink in means it 's usually sold in shops with fairly good standards of hygiene . Besides , while the drink itself is not hot , bubble tea is prepared using chilled tea - and the preparation of any kind of tea does involve a stage where water needs to be boiled . That should effectively kill germs , if any , that remain in water .
As Roflcoptr says , your Thalys is booked to leave from Platform 5 . Your best bet for platform 5 is to exit the Eurostar platform on the exit about half way along the train - not the one at the very front of the train . This 'll drop you down by the Thalys lounge , and pretty much by a set of stairs up to platform 5 . There 's also a lift there too , handy with your luggage . You should be able to make the platform change in about 5 minutes , so as long as your Eurostar is n't late you should be just fine If you look at <URL> , if you take the mid-platfrom exit , that 's the set of lifts/escalators in the blue circle in the bottom right . Just above that is marked Cybelys , which is the Thalys lounge , and the lifts + escalators just above that are the ones onto the Thalys platforms . ( If you were to take the exit at the front of the Eurostar , that drops you at the " Arrival Eurostar " on the map in the bottom left , then you have to walk all the way round to the red Thalys area to be able to get up to the platforms )
Realistically , assuming you can get permission to visit Tibet ( the permission for which is separate from the rest of China ) , the most dangerous part of a visit by a Westerner seems to be the actual flight into Lhasa Gonggar airport . This is recognized by many pilots as one of the most dangerous landings in the world . Please note that there have n't been more accidents than ' normal , ' it is just a very difficult landing which requires special training and only those pilots who are especially licensed for the airport are allowed to land at it . Crime against tourists in Tibet is almost wholly unheard of . There are the sorts of petty crimes that occur anywhere in the world , such as pick-pocketing at the markets , but by and large , tourists are not subjected to it . Enjoy your trip to the top of the world , and know that you 've gone to a place most of us have never or could never go !
This is hard to answer with an authoritative source since the quality of non-potable water varies widely from the source it comes from ( is it groundwater ? river water ? is there anything recycled from drainwater from houses ? ) and even within a country . I 'm speaking mostly from my experience living in India , but in practice I have seen similar practices in Malaysia , Indonesia , Vietnam and Thailand too . None of these places have potable water supply ; the source is typically river or lake water . The reason why they are classed non-potable is primarily because of high mineral content or particulate matter , which can be purified for human consumption by physical filtration as opposed to bacterial disinfection - although as it has become cheaper and more compact to make ultraviolet or reverse osmosis filters for home use , these are also used . Bacteria or viruses are the causes for most water-borne diseases , those can get into the water supply if untreated raw sewage is dumped into water sources which thankfully most civil authorities are not stupid enough to do . So for the countries I mentioned , in practice , while it is customary to purify water for drinking either by boiling or using filtration devices , for other purposes such as washing clothes , washing dishes , cleaning hands , bathing , brushing teeth et al - essentially , anything that does not involve ingesting water , tap water is used directly . The water may taste funny for instance if you 're brushing your teeth - that 's because of the high mineral or iron content typically - but as for safety , yes , it can be considered safe .
The official Mexican Customs website has <URL> document , which states aliens can temporarily import a car into Mexico for as long as their immigration status lasts . In your case , this would be until your FM3 visa expires . Quote : " Cuánto tiempo puede permanecer en México el vehículo importado ... el plazo que dure tu calidad migratoria " Also , the Mexican Ministry of Turism ( Secretaria de Turismo , SECTUR ) , provides <URL> , which on page 16 , section 3.2.2.1 , states : " Para ingresar un automóvil que sea de procedencia extranjera ( con placas distintas a las de México ) , se requiere contar con un permiso de Importación Temporal . Dicho permiso se obtiene en cualquier módulo de BANJERCITO ubicado en las aduanas y se otorga para los extranjeros , por el plazo que dure su calidad migratoria , incluyendo sus prórrogas y para los mexicanos , por 180 días dentro de un año , con la opción de entradas y salidas múltiples , siempre y cuando se cumplan con los siguientes requisitos ... " Which translates to : " To bring an alien car into the country , you need to have a Temporary Import permit , which you can get at any BANJERCITO desk at the customs office , and is granted to aliens , for the term that their immigration status lasts ... as long as you abide to the following requisites ... "
end question
start question
Are there car rental companies in Tenerife which allow taking the car to neighboring islands ?
I have checked with <URL> , one of the cheapest and reliable companies in Canary Island , and they told me that you can take the car to other island as long as you return it in the same island where you rented it . You do n't have to pay extra money for this but you have to ask them for an authorization . This is what they answered to me about you question . This is the answer they gave me . It is in Spanish but basically It says what I told you . From : &lt;info@cicar.com&gt; ( sent by cmorales@grupocabreramedina.com ) Buenos días , Usted puede alquilar un coche en una isla y pasarlo a otra , siempre y cuando devuelva el coche en la misma isla que lo recogió , sin cargo extra . Además deberá pedir la autorización a nuestra oficina para que conste en su contrato y tenga una cobertura total . Gracias Saludos Cora Morales On the other hand , <URL> is an inexpensive company and they have offices in every dock so you can take a new car as soon as you arrive to the next destination . This option can be the cheapest since you do n't have to pay for the car transportation when you move between islands , which is not usually cheap .
TL ; DR : You need liability insurance with a high limit . Your credit card wo n't get you that . Try to get your liability insurance from home , and failing that buy it at the rental desk . Your credit card might help you if you wreck the rental car , but read the fine print if you are relying on your credit card for that . You Need Liability Insurance ( from somewhere ) You need to secure liability insurance of some sort . If you are involved in an accident where there are personal injuries , your liability can easily exceed your net worth . In other words , an accident can bankrupt you . Exactly how much you might be personally liable for will generally depend on the following : the particulars of the accident the laws in the place where the accident occurred the liability insurance you carry By definition , you ca n't predict an accident . Getting a good handle on the laws regarding liability in motor-vehicle accidents in every place you travel is unrealistic . So , the only way you can mitigate your risk is by controlling the liability insurance you carry . What should my liability insurance limit be ? Insurance policies often have a maximum liability that they will shelter you from . $ 1 million seems to be common in North America . What does the limit mean ? Suppose you are in an accident where you are ultimately found liable for $ 3 million and you have a policy with a $ 1 million limit . Your insurance will pay $ 1 million to the plaintiff and you will owe the other $ 2 million . So , how do you work out how much coverage you need ? Warning : Unpleasant stuff coming up . If you do n't like thinking about accidents , horrible situations , and worst-case scenarios , skip to the next section . The answer is to get the highest liability coverage limit you can get . Everyone else , read on . Here 's how I work out how much liability insurance I carry . Based on some cursory research I once did , it is my understanding that many courts use , in part , lifetime lost wages and cost-of-care to calculate damages . So , the worst-case accident is probably maiming a vehicle of young professionals . Let 's make some assumptions : there are 5 people in the car all are professionals earning $ 70,000 per year all are 23 years old all are expected to live until 80 years old all are injured so badly that they ca n't ever work again all require care costing $ 30,000 per year for the rest of their lives The math goes like this : $ 100,000 per person per year x 5 people x 67 years = $ 33.5 million . You wo n't be able to buy a policy that gives you that much coverage ( the highest I 've found is $ 10 million ) , so just get the highest coverage you can obtain . Some of you might be thinking " I do n't need liability insurance because I do n't have any net worth to lose if I am liable . " That may be true . You may be broke and you may be able to maim a car full of people without you or your non-existent insurance paying them a cent . But , by knowingly driving around uninsured you are effectively saying " I am putting other humans at risk of life and limb and have declined to provide them with any possibility of compensation if I hurt them just so I can save a few bucks on insurance , and I think that 's OK . " It 's your choice . I know where my moral compass points . Your credit card ( most likely ) wo n't provide you with liability insurance . I have only seen <URL> that offers liability coverage of any kind for rental cars -- there might be others out there , but no card I have been eligible for provides liability coverage . ( If you do find one others , please link to the policy wording document in the comments . ) Credit card policies typically provide coverage for loss and damage to the vehicle but not liability coverage . You can get liability insurance from the rental car company , but you wo n't really know what you 're buying . Every car rental company I have rented from offers some sort of " liability insurance " at the point where you sign the rental agreement . There are a few problems with buying such insurance : the coverage limit is usually $ 1 million or less there are usually all sorts of exclusions in the policy wording sometimes the rental desk can not even provide you with a policy wording document assuming you can get a policy wording document from the desk , it would generally take hours of reading to understand what you are actually covered for it is almost impossible to obtain a policy wording document beforehand , and , even if you can get a rental company to provide you with one , there 's no guarantee that the one you agree to when you pick up your car will be the same Despite all of these problems , buying coverage at the rental desk is almost certainly better than not having any coverage . Furthermore , there are many circumstances where it is your only practical means of obtaining liability coverage . Get liability coverage for your rental car from an insurer in your home country/state/province . It is common that you can obtain liability insuran
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
So , first off , this is n't always the case . Point to point rentals can be cheaper in some circumstance . Especially if you 're taking a car from an area with low demand to a return lot with high demand . You can get some great deals this way seasonally , but they 're hard to shop for . That said , the reason it 's generally cheaper to return the car to where you got it is because if you do n't , somebody else will generally have to . Point to point rentals are rare , so when they happen , it throws off the very carefully managed inventories of multiple rental lots . Suddenly , one lot is short a car , and another lot has a surplus . In order to rebalance things , they either need to hope somebody wants to reverse your itinerary ( unlikely ) , incentivize somebody to do so and lose money offering them a bargain , or pay an employee to transport the vehicle .
To the best of my knowledge this is impossible , or at least impractical . <URL> is intentionally made hard ( cars are taxed much more heavily in Sg ) , and rental agencies will generally not even let you cross the border , much less return cars on the wrong side . Your options are : Return the car right across the border in Johor Bahru , then catch a bus/special taxi to Singapore . This would be a hassle , plus the drive from KL to JB is quite dull ; the scenery is much better in any other direction . Drop off your car in Kuala Lumpur , preferably right at the airport , then fly directly to Singapore Changi . I 'd recommend this , this would be the easiest option and the route is very heavily competed , so tickets are cheap .
So basically , it 'll ultimately depend on the rental company , but there are certainly penalties . It 's also definitely possible , so do n't worry about that . For example , from <URL> : Drivers under 25 must have held their full license for at least 24 months prior to the date of pick up . The minimum age to rent a vehicle is 21 years ( maximum 75 ) . Drivers under 25 , i.e. drivers aged 21,22 , 23 or 24 are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day and drivers 70 or over are subject to an insurance surcharge of 25 Euro per day . All drivers under 25 and over 70 are liable for the first 1,200 Euro of damage to the car ( excess ) . The surcharge is paid when collecting the car and is not included in the quoted price . However , there are a few other terms on that page with regards to where you hold your current license , and whether you 'll need to supply an international driver 's license . But once you 've got that , you should be good to go .
Are you after the physical answer , or the legal one ? Presuming he still physically has his license , and it has an expiry date beyond when he will be renting the car , then he will most likely be able to physically rent a car . If he is pulled over by the police , then he will most likely be able to lie and claim that his license is valid , and he will probably get away with it . However doing that will be illegal on many levels . Firstly , when renting a car , part of the rental agreement is that you have a valid drivers license and are legally allowed to drive in the country you 'll be driving in . As his license has been suspended he will NOT have a valid license , and will NOT be legally allowed to drive in the US . Thus by renting the car he will be committing fraud . Next , by actually driving , he will be driving without a license . Most countries ( including the US ) allow you to drive based on having a valid license in your home country . He does not , thus he will be driving illegally . When driving without a license , any insurance coverage he has ( including the rental car companies ( self - ) insurance , travel insurance , etc ) will be invalidated . He will be fully responsible financially for any accidents he causes , and very probably even if he is n't at fault . If he is involved in an accident you can all but guarantee that they will check on the validity of his home-country license , and not just take it for granted that it 's valid . If he is pulled over by a police officer it 's unlikely they will be able to tell that his overseas license is suspended , but if they can then he will definitely be charged , which will not only come with a hefty fine , but will leave him in a very unfortunate position as far as returning his rental car is concerned as they will not let him drive it to return it to the rental company . So can he rent a car ? Yes . Will he get away with it ? Probably . Will he be breaking countless laws and potentially risking prison time ? YES ! ( Driving without a license in California can lead to up to 6 months prison , I 'm presuming other states are similar )
I spent about half the day yesterday booking my flights . Here is the info I found : Airlines that do not allow in-cabin pets on transatlantic flights : American , Continental , U.S. Airways Airlines that do allow in-cabin pets on transatlantic flights : Delta , Lufthansa , United These are personally verified by calling the airlines , and by taking my dog to Germany from Frankfurt on Lufthansa .
I 'm not going to try and answer this any better then <URL> . The gist of the story is basically that car rental companies are getting at least some money from their fleet even if you cancel or do n't show up . From what I just gathered on Avis the cancellation fees are $ 25.00 if you do it more then 6 hours before or $ 100 if you are a No Show or doing it less then 6 hours before the pick-up time . The article also mentions that there are potential discounts that you could be missing out on once you prepay .
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
It 's common in Europe for many cars to have a Diesel or Gasoline version . Usually , but it is not a rule , if the model of the car has a letter D it 's a Diesel car , but this is not a rule . It 's not a rule as well for the car to have a letter on the model name . Usually in Diesel cars you will find some warnings about it . The rental car agent will tell you Next to the gas tank a warning about the type of petrol . The diameter of gasoline hose has a different size of a diesel hose . It will be hard to put the wrong hose inside the tank . The label on the key could have DIESEL written on it ( HERTZ does that )
<URL> This is the underground car park at the Sagrada Familia market , which worked perfectly for me . Otherwise , if this is too expensive for you , <URL> . The 12 EUR option is <URL> : <URL> From there , you 'll be a short metro ride away from the city centre .
Bit late to the party , but for the benefit of future readers : I am Canadian , and I have rented a car in several US states and Germany using an Alberta class 5 license . The process involved exactly zero questions or even a raised eyebrow . An international permit / translation was not required , they speak the same language down there ( well , reasonably the same . They ca n't spell ) . However , your boyfriend will remain a passenger - learner 's permits wo n't be accepted by any rental company .
As @Dirty - flow said , sleeping in the car is allowed , but you should not sleep in the driver 's seat etc. if you are drunk , to omit being fined for drunk driving . There are many areas , especially inside of the " Mittlerer Ring " , where parking is restricted ( residents only or parking ticket , see <URL> or <URL> ) . I 'd suggest to park somewhere in the outskirts , near a <URL> station , and use public transport . <URL> , for example , has a nice lake you can swim in ( " Erholungsgebiet Heimstettener See " ) . Update : Sleeping in a caravan in the city of Munich is forbidden : <URL> ( They <URL> parking at the Messe in Riem , 35 Eur per night . ) Feldkirchen should be OK . Also note : You need a <URL> for your car ( " Umweltplakette " ) if you want to drive inside of " Mittlerer Ring " .
Bring a towel or blanket , some baby wipes , and optionally a small trowel or a stick you picked up along the way . A few small plastic bags are also helpful . If someone ( especially a small child ) ca n't wait until you can exit , pull over at a safe spot . A safe spot has a shoulder significantly wider than the car , and you pull as far off as you can without risking the car sliding off the roadway and getting stuck . Make sure ( by watching as you choose the spot ) you have a good long view behind you ( a straight stretch of road ) so you will be able to get back on the road safely knowing no cars are coming , and a good long view ahead of you so that cars who are passing you can see there is no oncoming traffic and may give you a slightly wider berth . Once pulled over , exit only through the passenger doors . If a child is the " goer " have an adult exit first , then the child . Once the " goer " is out of the car , walk a little further from the road , locate a good spot ( see further ) and have one or possibly two adults hold up the towel or blanket to screen the " goer " from cars passing by . If this is a new experience , make sure the goer does not have one foot downhill of the action , especially if they are going to squat . Watch for poison ivy , nettles , or other unfriendly vegetation that should not be contacted with bare skin . Also watch for insect activity to avoid a sudden and possibly painful interruption . If they 're just peeing , you do n't need to make a hole , but if necessary , make a very shallow hole first , then have the goer use it . Do not bury the wipe , nor any toilet paper - they do n't decompose . Scrape a little dirt over the contents of the hole afterwards . Put the used wipes in the plastic bag for disposal at the rest stop . The wipes can also be used for handwashing . When the goer is done and the pants are back up , the towel or blanket can be put back in the car and used next time or for any other purpose . You may find the wipes handy in other situations too .
Caribbean English . Caribbean English is a broad term for the dialects of the English language spoken in the Caribbean and Liberia , most countries on the Caribbean coast of Central America , and Guyana . Caribbean English is influenced by the English-based Creole varieties spoken in the region , but they are not the same . <URL> Related : Virgin Islands Creole , or Virgin Islands Creole English , is an English-based creole spoken in the Virgin Islands and the nearby SSS islands of Saba , Saint Martin and Sint Eustatius , where it has been known as Netherlands Antilles Creole English . The term " Virgin Islands Creole " is formal terminology used by scholars and academics , and is rarely used in everyday speech . Informally , the creole is known by the term dialect , as the creole is often perceived by locals as a dialect variety of English instead of an English creole language . However , academic sociohistorical and linguistic research suggests that it is in fact an English creole language . Because there are various varieties of Virgin Islands Creole , it is also known by the specific island on which it is spoken : Crucian dialect , Thomian dialect , Tortolian dialect , Saint Martin dialect , Saba dialect , Statia dialect . ... Like most Caribbean creoles , the use of Virgin Islands Creole can vary depending on socioeconomic class . The middle and upper classes tend to speak it informally among friends and at home , but code switch to Standard English in the professional sphere . The lower socioeconomic classes tend to use the dialect in almost every aspect of daily life . <URL> In <URL> a native speaker of the BVI version of Caribbean English demonstrates for you how certain words and phrases sound in the BVI versus Standard English .
Taking rental cars across European borders is not particularly difficult . You do need to check with the agency exactly what they allow . Cars are typically approved in the whole EU and private insurance also covers many countries but rental agencies have additional restrictions ( e.g. higher-end cars often can not be taken to Eastern Europe ) and might require you to inform them in advance and to get some extra insurance . One-way cross-border car hire ( picking up a car in one country and dropping it off in another one ) is also possible with major international brands but there is obviously a ( usually steep ) surcharge and , again , a different list of allowed countries for each brand and each country ( it does not always go in both directions ; for example it 's possible that a given agency allows French-registered cars to go to Germany but not German-registered cars to go to France ) . In all the countries you mentioned , getting across the border itself is really easy . In the Schengen area or in the Common Travel Area , you will just drive through without noticing , with little more than a sign marking the border . " <URL> " by Oliver Dixon . Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.0 via Wikimedia Commons . Border between France and Belgium , seen from the Belgian side Between the British Isles and the continent , you will have line up for a passport check , without even leaving your car , for example when driving out of the ferry . It 's more than 10 years since I last did it with a car , as far as I remember , border guards do n't care about vehicles at all ( no need to show the registration or prove you have insurance ) , they just want to make sure the passengers have appropriate documentation . " <URL> " by © Raimond Spekking / CC BY-SA 4.0 ( via Wikimedia Commons ) . Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 via Wikimedia Commons . ( That 's in France , so you get cleared for entry into the UK before even getting on the ferry ) . One issue is that it might be required to adjust your headlights when driving on the other side of the road but , in my experience , this is not enforced at the border and some French car hire agencies definitely allow you to take their cars to the UK . Note that in Paris , London , Amsterdam or even Dublin a car is more an encumbrance than anything . So if you do n't want to bother with all the issues I mentioned and save some money , you might just as well rent a different car in each country to explore the countryside and return it before visiting the cities themselves . Petrol is expensive in Europe so for one or two people , traveling by train or plane between the different cities in your itinerary will often be cheaper ( for a family of four , road travel can be cheaper ) .
A Swiss online resource I know is <URL> . It lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland that are worth a visit . I quickly checked it , and all I know of are on the list . Unfortunately the list is in German , but at least some of the further links are also available in English . If you 're looking for an English resource I would recommend <URL> . It also lists a lot of Spas in Switzerland and also here I could found all spas I know . I personally can recommend <URL> . It is a little bit out of the way , but it is really beautiful and also from an architectural point of view worth a visit .
I know that some starwood hotels allow you to entirely skip the check-in process and simply walk up to your room and <URL> ; although this is n't anonymous . I also know of some hotels that allow you to check in as an alias ; but again , this is n't anonymous this is just an extra layer of privacy to prevent people from asking for you by simply calling the reception . It is also used as a layer of security by some . Truly anonymous clandestine checkin - where you simply open a door , walk up to the key rack , pick up your key and go off to your room , if there is such a place , I would definitely like to visit it . It may have been possible years ago , but this day of cross border terrorism and whatever else , data collection has become a sort of fever for any and all jurisdictions that hope to attract any kind of tourist dollars . You may have been able to do so previously , but I doubt you can today : Even if you use a pre-paid anonymous card , or have someone else pay for your room booking , you need to show proof of who you are when you arrive to collect the keys . The name on the reservation has to match the person asking for the key . This name can be an alias , but that is not the definition of anonymous . Further , it goes towards security and liability on the part of the hotel . God forbid there is some incident - say a fire or other such security issue , they need to know who is checked in where , who is accounted for , etc. . As mentioned by others , some jurisdictions mandate collection of hotel guest data as part of their overall security procedures/requirements - if they do n't they are breaking the law and may be subject to fines or worse suspension of their license to operate . It may be true that you are able to skip a lot of this formality if you use more informal means of stay ( like airbnb , hostels , or staying with friends/colleagues ; room sharing ) but I do n't think that was in scope of your question .
The places you have mentioned are in three of the ' <URL> ' : Herts , Hants , and Surrey , and I have tooled around two of the venues ( never been to the Harry Potter film sets ) . It 's debatable whether it makes sense to rent a car to visit popular tourist venues in the home counties , but that 's a topic relying heavily upon your experience in South East England combined with your agenda . The home counties are thought to be safer than say Brixton or Wood Green , but it is not prudent to assume this . Some of the hotels in those locations have a car park located either under the hotel or in a flood lit area , but even in the best of conditions you would n't want to leave your stuff in a car overnight . Put simply , it 's <URL> . The rule goes for stuff that 's visible or stored in the boot . Nobody will sympathise if anything goes missing or if the car windows are damaged ; you can expect the police to sigh and roll their eyes . If you want to keep your stuff safe overnight , carry it into the hotel . In the day time at those venues , it 's generally ok to leave your stuff visible if you are in the venue 's car park ( but not the overflow car park ) , but even then people like to cover it with a <URL> stowed in the boot for that purpose . Look around at what other people are doing , the global rule " <URL> " applies .
end question
start question
What rights do I have if my flight is cancelled ?
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
Most airlines have a bit about this on their site - for example , on <URL> , for travel in the UK : Adults : Any photo ID which matches the passenger name in the booking . Infants and Children : Children under 16 years of age ( travelling with an adult ) on UK domestic flights can travel without photo identification . So no , they do n't need ID to travel in the UK , as long as they 're travelling with you .
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
I 've had a malfunctioning barcode passport ( those pre-biometric hologrammed ones ) for 10 years . Basically ever since I first got the passport I was unable to successfully scan it anywhere I went . During that timespan I travelled many countries , including and not limited to the US , India and Australia , and it never worked . What happens in case the automatic scan does n't work is that the customs officer tries scanning it again and when that fails too they enter the passport number manually in the system . That 's it . I would say you have nothing to worry about . Unless there are valid reasons for not letting you in the country you should be fine . In case you just want to know if the RFID works you can try reading it using a dedicated reader ( or a compatible mobile phone ) . <URL> but at least you 'll know if the chip responds .
Generally , if you have a through booking , then if you miss the flight because of the airline 's fault then you become their problem . This does n't mean you 'll automatically get put on the next flight . You 'll need to talk to the airline and ask for help , and ask for re-booking . If the next flight has spare seats , then all should be well . Most likely though , you 'll get put on standby for the next flight , and hopefully will make the next one or the one after . As it 's the airline 's fault , you should get meal vouchers , help with a hotel if needed etc. ( Note - the exact level of help you get depends on the jurisdiction you 're in , and the home jurisdiction of the airline ) However , if you miss the connecting flight because of your own fault ( eg you fall asleep while waiting near the gate ) , then it 's probably no different to if you have two independent bookings ...
Your residence permit allows you to re-enter China . There is no need for an additional Z-Visa since the residence permit - as long as it is still valid - replaces the single-entry Z-Visa . You can understand the Z-Visa as a <URL> to get your residence permit . It is not needed afterwards anymore . Your residence permit works as a multiple entry visa .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
Each person has their own taste , so this questions is almost subjective . However , after living there for four years , I now know there are certain things that EVERY tourist seems to want to do or see . St Paul 's . It 's one of the greatest cathedrals in Europe , and I 've heard people say it 's their European highlight , the pinnacle of sights that they 've seen . On a Sunday you can get in free , although you wo n't have access to everywhere inside . Westminster Abbey and a photograph of Big Ben . When you come out of Westminster tube station , it 's tourists EVERYWHERE . But I suggest coming out at Waterloo station and walking across the bridge to Big Ben - you 'll get a better photograph . Westminster Abbey is just behind it , and like St Paul 's , some of it is free to access on Sunday 's . Note that only residents can go up Big Ben , and even they have to apply to their local Member of Parliament months in advance for a tour . Tower of London . My favourite tourist attraction . I spent the better part of a day here , and could easily go back for more . Get there early to beat the crowds . Right next to it is Tower Bridge - which most people think is called London Bridge . London Bridge is actually flat and boring ;) The London Eye . Giant ferris wheel next to Waterloo station , the queues are insane on weekends . This is a polarising attraction - people either think it 's a waste of money , or a must-see . I 've been twice - during day and night , and loved it . The museums . British Museum , Imperial War Museum , Natural History Museum and Science Museum are the big famous ones , but there are smaller ones too if you search around . The best part is that most of them ( including all the big ones I 've just mentioned ) are free ! The London Underground . It sounds odd , but it 's such a fundamental part of London , that you need to make sure you ride it a few times on different lines . Perhaps in from Heathrow , or to the museums , as it 's nice to walk around above ground in central London , and it 's surprising how close together everything is . Picadilly Circus and Oxford Circus . Walk through , take photo , move on . They 're famous , historic , but they only take a few minutes ;) Buckingham Palace . You ca n't always go inside , and most people claim the changing of the guard is over-rated , but there 's still something about seeing it ! The parks . Make sure to check out at least St James Park , and Hyde Park . London Zoo and Camden Market . They 're close by . Come out of Camden tube station nice and early , check out the market for a bit . Then walk to the zoo - it 's historic , and has quite a few animals you do n't see many of . Bonus sights ! Richmond Park - my favourite park in all of London . Take the tube or overland to Richmond , and ask someone for directions from there . It 's about a 20 min walk to get there , and then you 're in the largest open air space in all of Greater London , with two large herds of deer , and a protected view all the way back to St Paul 's , the Gherkin and the London Eye . Fantastic place on a clear day , or when there 's fresh snow on the ground :) Borough Market and Southbank - close to London Bridge , and open from Thursday to Saturday , the fresh food and coffee is a great start to your morning , before you walk along Southbank to Tower Bridge , or west to Waterloo . London Bridge station , Borough Market exit , west side of Borough High street .
As Air India mentions in their <URL> , For domestic journeys , along with a copy of your ticket , you will be required to show any of the following identification : Photo Identification of the passenger i.e. : Passport , Driving License , Pan Card , Voter card , Student ID , Military ID , Photo Credit Card , Airlines ID , Any Photo ID card by Airline , Any other photo card issued by Government agencies . <URL> also provides similar information , It is mandatory to produce a valid photo identification using the Kiosk check-in boarding pass for security clearance as well as for boarding . A valid photo identification could be an official Government issued photo identification , a driving license , an election photo identification , Passport ( for international guests ) , or a photo credit card What I infer from this is as long as you have any official documentation from the government or from the airline or a credit card with a photograph , this would be considered a valid photo ID . As far as I can understand the Marriage Certificate should be acceptable on grounds of being a photo identification issued by a Government agency , but there is no guarantee of this because Air India mentions Photo Card whereas Jet Airways does n't mention this at all . I would suggest you to use either a Voter ID or Aadhar Card .
<URL> allows you to specify almost any conveivable trip combination . You can specify the cities or airports to fly through , the layover times , the airline alliance or airlines and even the aircraft that you 're willing to fly . Example : If you wish to fly from London to San Francisco via New York with a stopover in New York of more than 48 hours on the outbound , only on aircraft operated by American Airlines , you would use LON : :O : AA * / minconnect 2880 to SFO : :O : AA * If you 'd like to further specify your requirements , I 'm sure we could supply you with the options you would need to use .
The safest approach to arrive in any city is to arrange for your hotel to pick up you , meaning there will be a guy with a sign with your name on it waiting for you right outside Customs . Just give them a ring and ask about " airport transfer " or " airport shuttle service " . The obvious downside is that this is usually expensive , often 2-4x the cost of a taxi .
In all probability , you should be able to board the flight . I use the expression because this is not a matter of rules , but depends on various factors that can not be predetermined , such as the punctuality of the flight that lands you into Frankfurt , the rush on the two flights , and the number of people doing the transition from this to that . I had a similar experience once while flying Lufthansa from Bangalore to San Francisco . I had a little more time than you -- 90 minutes instead of 55 , but guess what , my Bangalore-Frankfurt flight was late by around an hour . 30 minutes would have been impossible to make the connect but the airlines staff knew that , and they boarded all passengers of the incoming flight that had to connect to the next flight to San Francisco in a separate coach , took them to a special window where they got their passports stamped , and then back onto the coach and the plane for the connecting flight . I think the connecting flight was even delayed by a few minutes as 30 minutes would not have been sufficient to transfer 50 + passengers . It was smooth for passengers , though a little tiring of flying 20 straight hours . One of my two check in bags did n't make it though . I got only one bag in SFO , and the other came to my hotel the next evening .
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Given your choice of tags I believe <URL> is relevant : there is no formal requirement in United Kingdom law for British Citizens to carry a passport to enter the United Kingdom and that despite being from six years ago is still the law . However note the risk of delay . If you do n't need a passport ( or travel document equivalent for such purpose ) you wo n't need a visa . The length of time your passport has been invalid wo n't help .
Since I got an answer to my inquiry to eurail/interrail and it is too long to post in a comment I will put it here as an answer : Thank you for your email to Eurail.Com Customer Service . Yes , as a rail passenger , you are entitled to several rights according to the European Union Law . You can find more information on the page of the European Commission : <URL> You can also find the European Union regulations on : <URL> Since the Eurail Pass entitles you to use the train in Europe , you are of course protected by the EU law when you will be traveling with your Eurail Pass . I believe this boils down to the same regulations and rules that was stated in the original question , but I did not have time to go through it all to make sure . However I do find the links provided by the eurail/interrail customer service to be a lot easier to read than the actual regulation texts , which is why I have posted them here . Also note that the first link also has maritime and air travel rights information .
British Airways provide a <URL> , including all about Flight Connections . I 'd very much suggest you read through that . To tackle the main bits , assuming you have a single ticket covering both legs of your journey : You will not pass through UK customs You will not pass through UK immigration Your bags will be checked through to your final BA destination , so wo n't have to be collected or re-checked . ( Check the baggage tags given to you at checkin to ensure they have been tagged all the way through ) If your starting airport is able , they 'll give you your second boarding pass If not , you 'll have to go to the flight connections desk to collect it On arrival , you 'll follow the purple Flight Connections signs , and have your boarding pass + passport checked You will have to clear security , which is upstairs from flight connections , before you enter the main departures area of the terminal As long as there are no flight delays on your inbound , 2 hours will be fine . Queues to get your boarding pass checked before security tend not to be too bad , and while security can be shocking at times , we 're talking 30-45 minutes at bad times . One thing to check when you arrive is what bit of T5 you arrive in , and where you go from . T5 actually has three buildings , linked by an underground shuttle train , T5A ( the main bit ) , T5B and T5C . If you arrive at B or C gates , and depart again from B or C , you can clear flight connections and security there , which is generally a lot quieter . However , if either flight involves the main A gates , you 'll have to do security there , which can have delays at busy times . I 've managed to find a CC-BY photo from <URL> which shows what you 'd see at T5A : This is at the far end of the Purple Flight Connections signs in T5A . To your right are the desks , where you 'd go to collect your onward boarding pass if you did n't already have it . To the left is the UK border , which you 'd have got to if you 'd followed the yellow arrivals signs instead . Straight ahead is where they 'll check your passport and scan your onwarding boarding pass , then it 's up the escalators in the background to get to security . You need to get your boarding pass scanned by 35 minutes before departure ( conformance ) , so with 2 hours you 'll be fine !
I looked at <URL> 's English and Japanese-language web sites , but neither of them appears to have any weather alerts , nor even any section for weather information or cancellations . Your best bet for accurate information , then , is probably to call them ( 092-281-2315 ) . That said , based on the weather prediction , I expect you 're going to be cutting it very close . The Beetle does claim a <URL> and the ability to operate in <URL> , so I expect that they will operate right to those limits . I would n't expect the final decision to run or cancel your particular ferry to be made until the last minute , taking into account weather conditions at the time .
Considering the airline in question is British Airways , you should be able to change any other flights if they are in the same booking . If you are booked to travel on a flight that is cancelled , you can either : Rebook onto another British Airways flight at a later date at no extra charge and subject to availability OR Cancel your booking and claim a refund to the original form of payment If your booking also includes any other BA flights that are not cancelled you will be able to change these flights at the same time . Source : <URL> The question remains if you get the same class while rescheduling because if you do n't then you will have to pay DOF ( Difference of Fare ) charges . This is an airline specific question , such conditions are subject to airline policy and they are the best place to contact for information . If your flight was n't BA then this wo n't be applicable .
Skipping a flight you 're checked in for with bags is generally not a great idea . Since your bags ca n't fly without you ( because Terrorism ( tm ) ) , they have to unload your bags , which will almost certainly delay the flight and piss off the baggage handlers . In other words , doing this would usually be a bit of a dick move on your part . However , in this particular case ( as Doc notes ) , you 're flying internationally from Korea to DTW , which means your bags will be unloaded so you can collect them and take them through Customs . So : Nothing happens , you can simply leave during your layover . The airline will mark you as a no-show for that flight . Nobody cares if you do this occasionally , but the airline will eventually twig on if you do this ( say ) every week and might send you a nasty letter , confiscate your frequent flyer miles and/or ban you from flying with them again . and 4 . See above : you 're required to collect your bags at DTW anyway , so all you need to do is not check them back in afterwards .
end question
start question
Can you get to South West Rocks by public transport ?
South West Rocks ( and Arakoon ) is indeed an amazing place - I was lucky enough to grow up near-by , and holidayed at " the rocks " at least once a year . The nearest major city to South West Rocks is Kempsey , which is on both the Sydney-Brisbane rail line , as well as on the main highway between those cities . There are 2 bus services that run multiple daily services between Kempsey and South West Rocks , although keep in mind that at least some of these services double as school buses so you may want to avoid those particular services . <URL> <URL> ( Timetable may or may not be current ! ) The Busways route starts on Belgrave St , but not at the end where the train station is , but instead down near the highway . This is where most of the long distance coaches stop .
Website you mentioned in the question , covers <URL> . Also , bus operator has a handy <URL> tool . What you probably want to search , is the route from <URL> . You will have to switch buses at Borgarnes ( from no. 57 to no. 58 ) . Make sure the driver will drop you off where you want though . You can also try hitchhiking from Borgarnes . In the summer there are a lot of tourists and Snaefellsnes peninsula is quite popular destination . Also , make sure to be dropped off at the road to the farm south of Eldborg ( Snorrastadir ) and take an " official " trail from there . As far as I recall , there is a fence around the crater area ( it 's nature 's reserve I think ) and the terrain around it is quite difficult . You can also sleep at this farm if need be - there is camping site , showers , kitchen etc. . EDIT : I highly recommend to use this instead of Google maps , it is just much better ( you can see the trails etc. ) : <URL>
There are non-stop flights between Strasbourg and <URL> on <URL> but only once a week in summer , not in April . There are probably a few other seasonal flights to Corsica from either Strasbourg or Basel/EuroAirport . You have n't mentioned Luxembourg but it is not so far away and Luxair also offers several flights between Corsica and Luxembourg in the summer . None of this is going to help in April , though . Your best bet outside of the holiday season is EasyJet from Basel . They have non-stop flights to Corsica year-round ( probably to Ajaccio , not Calvi ) . Low cost airline flights typically do not show up on regular travel agents/flight aggregators so you might want to check their website directly . Alternatively , you might also consider taking the train to Paris and fly from there . It might not seem like a logical choice geographically speaking but there are quick train links with some cities in South-West Germany . The train can be pricey as well so all-in-all it might or might not be more attractive than a flight connection in Paris . There are also night trains from Luxembourg or Strasbourg to Nice or Marseille but then you need to add the price of the ferry or flight to the island as well .
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
It 's a great question , because all three airports are completely different in how they operate when it comes to rental cars and even to some extent hotels . First , rental cars . They all have one thing in common for rental cars - there are no " in terminal " rental car locations ( although SFO is close ) . Los Angeles uses the older style bus-to-the-rental-lot concept . You stand on the curb and flag down the bus going to whichever rental car company you 're renting from when it comes along . Depending on the company , the time of day , and how lucky you are you might wait for 10 seconds , or you might wait for 10 minutes . Las Vegas has a large " Rental Car Center " , which is located a shuttle bus ride away from the airport . However unlike Los Angeles , it 's a single bus for all rental companies . Rather than a curb-side pickup there is a dedicated stop at the airport where there are always buses waiting , and they normally leave every few minutes . It is however an approximately 7 minute ride to the rental car center . San Francisco also has a single rental car center , however it 's located at the airport , and is accessible via the free airtrain that runs between airport terminals . The trains come every 1-2 minutes , and the ride to the rental car lot only takes a few minutes ( depending on which terminal you get on at ) . So between the three , San Francisco wins as being the more convenient , especially if you have luggage as you can take luggage carts all the way to your car ! Las Vegas is a distant second , with LAX being a close third . Hotels next . It depends what you 're after . Los Angeles and San Francisco have a much higher number of " airport hotels " which are very close to the airport . If your simple goal is to get to a hotel and recover from your flight , then Los Angeles probably wins , with San Francisco a very close second ( only because there 's slightly less hotels , and they can be a little more expensive ) . If you want to get to a " downtown " hotel , then Vegas will come out in-front , as the airport is much closer to downtown/the strip than the other two . San Francisco is probably second only because you can optionally skip the car and catch public transport there ( BART ) , but that 's only useful if you 're not picking up a car at the time . If you are headed " downtown " , keep in mind that parking in both San Francisco and Los Angeles is far from cheap - whilst in Vegas it 's free almost everywhere ! Now , time to think out of the box ! The problem with renting cars from any of the 3 airports above is that they all tag on a fairly sizable fee for picking up the car from the airport - and it 's normally a per-day fee so if you 've got the car for a while it can add up . San Francisco and Los Angeles in particular have a number of hotels near the airport that have free shuttles to/from the airport , and have on-site or near-by rental car companies . For example , the LAX Hilton has a Hertz office inside , and there are numerous hotels with airport shuttles that are within short walking distance of the Hertz and Avis offices in South San Francisco ( plus Hertz , Enterprise and probably others will both " pick you up " from a nearby hotel if needed ) . Especially if you are planning on going straight to the hotel , then catching the free shuttle to the hotel and then picking up your rental car the next morning from an off-airport location can save you a lot of money . Vegas is a little different if only because there are no free hotel shuttles , so you 'll need to catch a taxi/paid shuttle to the hotel - however otherwise it 's the same . Depending on what you 're planning to do in Vegas you might even want to go the first few days without having a car at all , and then you can rent one from any number of hotels along the strip that have rental agencies inside - saving both the airport fee and a few days rental . Keep in mind that rates can vary between airport and non-airport locations , so make sure you check both to get an idea of what 's available !
This is <URL> . It costs $ 50 . It gives 3-days access to most places worth to visit in Florence and to public transport . About public transport , Firenze is not that big : everything is at walking distance , even from Santa Maria Novella train station . I would n't recommend to go downtown by car . Most historical places , mainly churches , are entrance free . Some places , like the Duomo , are equipped with pay-for-light machines .
I assume the numbering of mileposts is to match the numbering of the U.S. Interstates themselves -- west to east interstates , which have even-numbers , are numbered from south to north ( i.e. I-10 runs through southern states , and I-90 runs through northern states ) . Likewise , south to north interstates , which have odd-numbers , are numbered from west to east -- I-5 runs along the west coast , and I-95 runs along the east coast . Note that this is the opposite of the US Highway system -- north to south routes grow larger from east to west . US Highway 1 is on the east coast , and the old US Highway 99 ( which is now no longer a US Highway ) ran along the west coast . Likewise , US Highway 14 runs through several northern states , and US Highway 82 runs across several southern states . I believe the reason the Interstates were numbered opposite of the US Highways was to avoid confusion , i.e. when talking about route 5 along the west coast , you know the person is talking about an Interstate , not a US Highway .
<URL> You can exchange unlimited amounts of DM banknotes and coins for euro indefinitely and free of charge at all Deutsche Bundesbank branches . The official exchange rate is set at EUR 1 for DEM 1.95583 . We accept the following banknotes and coins for exchange . Banknotes issued by the Bank deutscher Länder ( BdL ) Bundesbank banknotes and Federal coins denominated in Deutsche Mark or Pfennig We no longer accept the following banknotes and coins for exchange . 50 Mark BdL note II ( green ) , issued in 1948 You may submit this banknote together with an application for reimbursement to > the Deutsche Bundesbank 's National Analysis Centre at the Regional Office in > Rhineland-Palatinate and Saarland or to any other Bundesbank branch . DM 2 coin , first issue ( minting date 1951 ) Banknotes and coins issued prior to 20 June 1948 We also accept DM banknotes and coins submitted for exchange by post . We must emphasise , however , that submissions made by post carry substantially higher risks and if you choose to send cash in this manner , you do so at your own risk . > Information on deliveries permissible in Germany and abroad can only be obtained > from the relevant delivery companies .
Since April 2016 , the <URL> is now in operation . This is a direct rail line from Denver International Airport to downtown Denver ( Union Station ) . The airport rail station is at the south end of the main terminal . There are trains every 15 minutes most of the day , going to every 30 minutes early mornings and late at night . There are departures from the airport until after 1:00 am . The journey to downtown takes 37 minutes with no transfers . Luggage racks are available on the train . The fare is $ 9.00 and is sold as a day pass , including unlimited rail and bus travel throughout the RTD system for the whole day . ( For marketing purposes , the line is branded as the " University of Colorado A Line " . Its Union Station terminus is reasonably close to the <URL> , but travelers should note that the line does not serve the university 's better-known <URL> . ) Union Station is right at the northwest end of the 16th Street Mall . There is a <URL> running the length of the mall , if you want to get to a different point .
Obviously this is a question that could have very different answers depending on the specific country . For your specific example of Australia , the <URL> of actions that can be taken for refused items are : pay for the item to be treated to make it safe ( for example fumigation , irradiation ) store the item at the airport for collection when you leave Australia re -- export the item or have the item destroyed by AQIS . So thus , no , eating the item is not an option - at least , not officially ... Unless there 's something very special about them , importing chocolates into Australia is not a problem - just remember that you DO still need to declare them under the " Food " question .
I am living in Brazil ( Rio Grande do Norte ) and I can tell you from experience that tourist staff will not be able to understand anything beyond the most basic phrases unless this is a specialty of your hotel or resort . You 'll probably be able to get " Cardapio em ingles " ( english menu ) at almost anywhere though , with the items numbered and more or less translated understandably , the prices may well not be listed or even different than the other menu . Im in no way connected to this company , but CVC viagems is a really well known travel agent franchise who would be able to arrange payment/transit/orientations for you in the cities and major resort areas .
The responsible organisation for Hanover is the GVH Hannover , their site in English can be found <URL> . The overview of the <URL> . The overview of all <URL> . If it is too much info , <URL> it is in parts . The <URL> should not be forgotten . For convienience you can buy a city planner normally in every store near the train station which looks like <URL> .
As Andra said , RER B ( 5stations ) + Metro ( 3Stations ) will be way faster than Ligne 4 all the way down . The thing is the interconnection Line 4 to the train can take you up to 10 minutes , moreover if you have lugages with you . But taking the line 6 from Denfert-Rochereau to Montpartnasse will save you this time , trains are at the first exit . Summary Gare Du Nord - > RER B - > Denfert Rochereau - > Line 6 - > Montparnasse Bienvenue Enjoy your trip and welcome in France :)
<URL> is your best option . <URL> on where and how to find them : The shuttles are white colored and parked in front of the terminal building arrivals level exit ready to take you to Taksim for a fee of 14 TL and to Kadıköy for a fee of 9 TL . Shuttle 's Taksim departure point is across Taksim Divan hotel , in front of the Point Hotel .
To look up public transport options in Queensland , sadly there is n't currently one single place to look . For south east Queensland , the <URL> has a journey planner that covers buses , trains and ferries for the area . Unfortunately , you 're after information on a different bit of the state , so Translink is no help ... <URL> provides urban bus information and planners in most of the state , which will help you with planning journeys around Cairns itself . It does n't cover long distance services , which is what you 'd want . The main long distance bus operators on the east coast are <URL> ( only runs from Cairns south ) and <URL> , but neither seem to currently serve Port Douglas . There are a few local services , such as <URL> , <URL> and <URL> , but nothing that runs that late/early . The upshot is that I think in order to get there then , you might have to get a taxi ... Or , why not just get the last bus there the evening before , and kip on the beach ?
I recommend checking out the below links . Hopefully these will tell you what you need to know . Link 1 : <URL> You will need to translate the page , if you are in Google Chrome , you will be automatically prompted to do so . If not , go to google translate website and paste in the url of link 1 . If you are looking for a particular date when there may be strikes , your best bet would be to go to the below address . <URL> Here , you are able to search based on details you enter including date , location , sector etc. . All fields are optional . Again , translate the page first . The sector you are likely interest in is " trasporto ferroviario " for trains and " Trasporto Pubblico Locale " for local public transport . In the list of strikes , clicking the symbol on the right will give you more details on the strike , especially the intended duration . If you do not know any of the date , location or sector , link 1 will show you strikes in columns - the date , the location , the sector , details and location . Link 2 : <URL> In short , Itallians plan their strikes in advance . Details of when strikes are scheduled can be found on link 1 . If there is a specific service you are wanting to check , please comment it below . In response to your bonus question , " If your train is providing local transport during essential services for the peak times ( from 06:00 to 09:00 and from 18:00 to 21:00 Mon-Sat ) these will be are guaranteed . Some long-distance trains are also guaranteed on all days including holidays . " " Essential services mean that you will be transported to your destination somehow asap , just not nessecarily on the same train as originally booked . "
South West Rocks ( and Arakoon ) is indeed an amazing place - I was lucky enough to grow up near-by , and holidayed at " the rocks " at least once a year . The nearest major city to South West Rocks is Kempsey , which is on both the Sydney-Brisbane rail line , as well as on the main highway between those cities . There are 2 bus services that run multiple daily services between Kempsey and South West Rocks , although keep in mind that at least some of these services double as school buses so you may want to avoid those particular services . <URL> <URL> ( Timetable may or may not be current ! ) The Busways route starts on Belgrave St , but not at the end where the train station is , but instead down near the highway . This is where most of the long distance coaches stop .
Count your Metro Trips The only metric I would use when budgeting public transportation costs in Rome is the number of metro journeys you think you 'll travel per day . The reason is simple : <URL> . In other words , if you exit the metro and still have some time to spare on the ticket , you wo n't be allowed to use it again on another metro trip . The Roma 24-hour ticket costs 4.67 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 24 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 5 or more times per day , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 5 single BIT tickets , since you 'd be saving money . Similarly , the Roma 48-hour ticket costs 8.33 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 48 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 9 or more times in two days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 9 single BIT tickets . Finally , the Roma 72-hour ticket costs 12 times as much as a BIT ticket , and allows you to travel on unlimited journeys for the 72 hours following its validation . If you think you 'll be taking the metro 12 or more times in three days , then I 'd suggest this ticket over 12 single BIT tickets . Frankly , most of the times I just stick with BIT tickets , since I usually only need 2 metro trips per day . Moreover , you 'll probably be walking more than you 'll be taking public transport , once you get to your designed tourist area .
Yes , it can be done quite easily ! <URL> to doing so , which is well worth a read ! On weekends during the winter , there are two direct Eurostar services between London and Moutiers , Aime &amp; Bourg St Maurice . There are daytime trains both ways on Saturdays , or an overnight one out on Friday nights , back on Saturday night ( but it does n't have beds , just seats ) . A large number of the popular resorts are just a short transfer away from these stations ( tens of minutes , not several hours ! ) Another option is to take the Eurostar to Paris , then either a daytime TGV to the alps , or an overnight sleeper ( with couchette beds ! ) . This does involve a cross-Paris transfer though , which might be an issue depending on luggage - it 's a single metro ride with a few flights of stairs to cross Paris . Alternately , for the Swiss alps , and some bits of France ( eg Chamonix ) , you can take a Eurostar then Lyria TGV , with a cross-platform change in Lille . These services are generally unaffected by the weather - in January 2013 when there was a lot of snow in the UK and northern France , lots of flights were cancelled , but the daytime Eurostar was only a few minutes late into Bourg !
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
end question
start question
Is it possible to drive to Hawaii ?
According to <URL> , unless your car is amphibious ( like the Aquada ) , you 'll need to get it freighted to Hawaii . Fortunately this seems fairly common , and a quick google search gives a few results , including this on <URL> : According to them it usually takes three to four weeks , you will need a variety of paperwork and ( of course ) shipping insurance . But it 's certainly possible . However , you wo n't be driving WITH it . It 'll be being shipped . So that depends on your technicality rules for your challenge . Unfortunately , as per the same Wikitravel link , the days when everyone arrived by boat are gone . The only way you can get there yourself by boat is by cruise ship from the western coast of North America , for example , and I 'm not sure if any companies allow you to bring your own car , let along drive it onto the boat ...
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
No , you can not do this any more . The reason is that the Angkor Wat archaeological park is a protected complex , and drivers need to be registered with the authorities who maintain the park to be allowed into it . My tuk-tuk driver told me they need to be registered too , and of course , any tourists need to buy a valid pass . I am guessing that people who live in the area have some sort of residence permit or pass , but I did not see tourists themselves driving around on motorbikes . The temples themselves are very far apart and it 's a big trek to cover them on foot . I 'd advise keeping the tuk-tuk with you . It does n't cost more than $ 15-20 a day .
Any of the major car rental companies will allow a " One-way " rentals . Occasionally there are restrictions around specific locations , but in general if you 're planning to go from a major airport to another major airport you 'll have no problems at all . The issue is the price , which can vary dramatically depending on a number of factors . Some rental companies will charge a " drop fee " which will be a fixed amount , sometimes based on the distance between the two locations . Others will charge a higher per-day rate for one-way rentals . Some others will not charge extra for the rental , but will charge you an additional fee based on the number of miles you travel on the trip ( ie , the actual miles you drive , not the straight-line distance between the two locations ) . The best option is to look around at all of the various rental companies for the specific city pair and dates you 're after - if possible in both directions as sometimes it 's cheaper in one direction than the other . Travel websites like Orbitz.com can be good as they will show you multiple companies in one search , but sometimes for one-way you 'll get better rates when searching directly on the rental car companies site . Occasionally the rental companies will run " deals " for one-way rentals when they have a need to get cars out of a location - a few years ago I did a 3-day rental from Portland , OR to San Francisco , CA for a total cost of less than $ 20 ! These details are often listed on the rental car websites , but be careful as they do often have some strict restrictions such as no more than 7 days total rental . eg , Hertz currently has a deal for pickup in Arizona and drop-off in California , Colorado , Kansas , New Mexico , Oklahoma , Utah or Texas for <URL> !
It 's of course possible to exchange currency in Irkutsk . It 's a big city with a population of some 600 thousand , roughly the size of Helsinki , Stuttgart or Lisbon , so it certainly has a lot of banks and currency exchange points , any of which can be expected to accept Euros . A <URL> in the city , you will surely be able to find one close to your location in the city , especially if you arrive by rail , which is a major transportation method there . <URL> showing the current exchange rates for EUR in Irkutsk . The three major numbers , left-to-right , are : the central bank 's exchange rate , best buy rate in the city , best sell rate in the city . As of this moment , the best rate for selling EUR is at Гринкомбанк ( Grinkombank ) , at 74.1 rubles per Euro , with the official exchange rate of the Russian central bank being 73.63 .
Not really . Indonesian traffic cops in general and Balinese traffic cops in particular love <URL> and not having an IDP means an " instant fine " for you . Also note that you must have a motorcycle license in your home country and an IDP that covers this , an ordinary car license wo n't do . Then again , given that you can usually get away for Rp 50,000 ( ~ US$ 5 ) , if you 're only there for a short time you can do the math to figure out which is cheaper . Rental agencies do not care either way , although any insurance you may have may be invalidated if you do n't have a valid IDP . ( And no , I would n't usually recommend breaking the law , but if you 're a licensed driver with a license in English , this silly insistence on expensive additional pieces of paper is not much short of a scam in itself . )
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
The short answer is : depends . There are multiple discussions on <URL> regarding the subject . One from <URL> and another from <URL> . General consensus is that it is not possible with few exceptions : Accompanying live cargo Being an employee of the company flying the cargo In the remote areas like Alaska it may be possible to be flying a half and half plane . Half cargo - Half passenger . You are an airline crew member or a courier in that case you can request a <URL> ( maybe someone can enlighten me what Groom means here ) Save those you are likely to be denied access to the plane
There are a number of <URL> , via Tianjin or Qingdao . Both South Korea and China have a well-connected railway network , so it should n't be a problem to travel onward by train from the arrival point in China to Hong Kong . For what it 's worth , <URL> . South Korea to Hong Kong is quite far , so I would be surprised if there was any direct ferry . One might hope to travel via Taiwan , but unfortunately , <URL> . However , see <URL> and <URL> for more information .
No . Miles are not a currency that can be moved between programmes . There are some exceptions ( such as Avios , which can be moved between the British Airways Executive Club and the Iberia Plus ) but this is unusual . I am not aware of any SkyTeam programmes that work like this . If it is absolutely essential that you move the miles you might be able to convert via a common hotel partner or through some third party unofficial swap website . But it is likely to be very poor value in the first case and in the second case , a violation of the programme 's terms and conditions . You may buy flights from any SkyTeam airline using any other SkyTeam account . But you can not merge or pool your miles together .
The hotel wo n't mind if you check in and not use any of their services ... less food eaten equals less cost to them . But while you may not want to officially check out as that might cancel the last night you plan to use , it might be good to let the front desk know you may not be sleeping there every night , so they do n't call the police when your room is empty for three nights in a row . But an all inclusive does n't mean you are stuck there , you could use the rooms every night and set out to explore by day ( at your own expense or maybe with one of their activities if it suits your interests ) . You can head out to eat or eat in , no real restrictions . Is it sensible ? Hard to say , without more details . Is the cost of the package deal ( air , lodging , transfers ) less than the cost of just airfare ? Are there other benefits of the package you want to enjoy that you ca n't get on their own ?
Both in the Netherlands and Belgium you can buy semi-open tickets at the station for the other country . You can perfectly buy a national ticket for Belgium in the Netherlands and vice versa . The benefit of these tickets is that they have a validity window of 1 or 2 months . This is not the case if you buy train tickets in the respective countries self . So for local trips in Belgium you need to buy your tickets in the Netherlands and for your local tickets in the Netherlands you need to head to Belgium . Caveat : This does NOT work with tickets bought online , only with tickets issued at the train station .
From Kate 's first link : International marriage information : Couples from outside the United States can be married in Las Vegas . Most countries will want a certified copy of your marriage certificate and an Apostille from the Nevada Secretary of State . The marriage certificate costs $ 10 and the Apostille costs $ 20 . The Nevada Secretary of State can send the Apostille and certified marriage certificate copy directly to your government for you . Note that this is in addition to the $ 60 for the marriage license and whatever you pay to whoever actually marries you . In the US system the government usually does n't actually perform the marriage , you go to the official of your choice . Many of the major casinos here have wedding chapels . You can go to a justice of the peace ( low level judge ) to get married but I do n't think you 're going to come halfway around the world for a totally no-frills wedding . Note that you do pay the justice of the peace if you go that route .
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Your base facts are off . It is not the diameter of the Earth that is important , it is the Earth 's circumference . At the equator , the Earth 's circumference is approximately 40,000 km . Thus , to achieve what you suggest , you would need to travel at about 1,700 km/hour or 1,100 mph . This is much faster than any current commercial aircraft . This is also Mach 1.4 ( i.e. faster than sound ) . You could , however , circumnavigate the Earth closer to either pole , making your journey much shorter . The timezones do reach all the way north and south , at least in theory . Close enough to the pole and you could walk ! You do run into another issue though , and that is that the timezones are not uniform in size . Some are much larger and their size depends on your exact latitude . So , while you might be able to keep the sun in a fixed position in the sky ( relative to yourself ) , the local time may jump around a fair bit .
Be careful about trusting the Google Maps walking route , as it wants to send you over Connaught Bridge , which does n't have pedestrian footpaths ! If you use <URL> , you can see the lack of footpaths , but also a handy bridge that Google neglects to show ... Instead I 'd suggest using <URL> to plan the route , which uses <URL> which <URL> . That suggests a sub-2km , 20 minute walk , along the dock side , and over the pedestrian bridge :
Yes . I recently stayed at Calangute beach and a taxi driver took me to Old Goa and Panjim for 1400 rupees . This price is from a government table and is used by all the taxi drivers . If Panjim was not involved the ride would have cost around 1000 rupees . If you negotiate you can get it cheaper than the table price . I do n't remember exactly how long the journey took , but it was certainly not more than 90 minutes .
I think Death Valley is not more dangerous than other landscapes with some precautions , so some advices with addition from the <URL> Drive carefully . The monotonous landscape can easily lull you into being unresponsive and the lack of visual cues means that you are in danger to drive much too fast without recognizing it . This leads to sudden crashes or collisions ( ! ) because you ( or the other driver ) did not anticipate it . Plenty of water . This may seem exaggerated , but on desert tours I store 50 liters ( 12 gallons ) in my car if I am alone and if there are more persons 20 liters per person . People constantly underestimate the amount of water they will use in the desert . Drink in sips ( a cup every half an hour ) , not plenty , because the last one one causes you to sweat more . In the best case ( under shadows , not working ) people will still use 2 liters per day . In the worst case ( working under the sun ) you will lose more than 20 ( ! ) liters per day . Buy a <URL> . Your car will heat up to incredible temperatures during the sun without air condition . So if your car breaks down , you can build up your tarp next to your car to protect you from sunlight and give you some shadow . Do not forget your sunglasses and sun lotion . DO NOT LEAVE THE VICINITY OF YOUR CAR ASIDE FROM THE STREET . A car is widely visible from above and will attract attention while a human body is nearly completely invisible . Be aware that cell phones may not function . So take a map with you and perhaps a GPS device to know where you are and what your next station is . Book your accommodation before and tell them when you expect to arrive so people know if you are missing . Enjoy your drive !
Some better hostels actually do have curtains around their bunk bed , both top and bottom , but they are not many of there . Same for couchettes , some night trains have curtains but again that 's not the norm . I doubt that there is anything purpose built on the market . I think it would also be pain to carry such a thing with you all the time . I sometimes used towels or blankets borrowed from the hostel and just stuck the top end under the mattress of the top bunk . Of course this is much easier if you have the bottom bunk . I also used my mosquito net sometimes , it gives a little bit of privacy .
end question
start question
Is there a cheaper ( slower ) way to get by train from Brussels to Paris than Thalys ?
Yes , you can travel with regional trains . It takes a little over 4 hours plus the connection times , and there are no good connections , so count on 5 to 6 hours for the journey . The bus takes 4 -- 5 hours and is cheaper than regional trains . It is n't easy to find the train times or prices because online planners tend to go for the fastest journey only . There 's an option to avoid ICE on the <URL> , which avoids other high-speed trains such as Thalys ( currently -- it did n't in the past ) . If you ca n't get a list of local trains connections , look up Bruxelles -- Lille , Lille -- Amiens and Amiens -- Paris separately . As of today , you can break your journey as follows : Paris -- Amiens : 21.60 $ , lasts 66min to 99min , about 1 train per hour . Amiens-Lille Flandres : 21.10 $ , lasts 80min , about 1 train per hour . Lille Flandres -- Bruxelles with a change at Tournai : 22.60 $ , lasts 102min , about 1 train per hour . That 's a total of 65.30 $ . It should be a little less if you go to a train station and buy a single ticket ( I do n't think you can buy that ticket online ) . In comparison , a last minute Thalys ticket costs 99 $ and the journey is only 82min . If I elect to travel one day later I find seats for 69 $ ( obviously this depends on how full the trains are ) . A last minute ticket on <URL> costs 39 $ for a 4-hour journey or 29 $ for a 5-hour journey , with no break of journey either way . So regional trains do n't seem like a good compromise between price , comfort and speed .
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
It 's entirely possible , cheap , and simple . Go to the main bus terminal in Puerto Iguazu . Get on a bus going to Ciudad del Este ( it 'll likely just say ' Paraguay ' ) , and it travels across into Brazil to Foz Iguacu , and then across another bridge into Ciudad del Este . You 'll go through customs/border at Argentina/Brazil , and then ... probably again going into Paraguay . Talk to the bus driver , at this point it gets a little sketchy , but ... yeah , sometimes they just skip the border . From <URL> : Let 's just say hypothetically there 's this bus , and there 's this hypothetical driver , who upon hearing that the only non-local on the bus only wants to go into the border town , ca n't be bothered getting the tourist a stamp , drives on through the express customs lane for locals , and says he can just do the same on the way back after picking the tourist up again . Imagine that . Hypothetically of course . Hypothetically said tourist would hypothetically be in Paraguay without a visa and without a stamp , wandering around Ciudad del Este . But yes , there is a bus , and it does take you via Ciudad del Este - and indeed it continues all the way to Asuncion if you really wanted to go that far . It 's very easy , and all it really requires is you getting on the bus . But do make sure that you have a visa for Paraguay , and check whether you need one for Brazil as well .
As a former Flightfox ' expert ' , this has changed over time . For a while , if you paid and ran a contest , and they could n't beat your price , you could request a refund ( if you proved you had a lower price ) , and you 'd get your money back . Then a few months back they changed their model and shut out most of the experts , changing the remainder to ' travel consultants ' . The idea being instead of having a bunch of people throw prices at you , you 'd get one of their best people working with you to find the lowest price . Odds are , you 're going to get amazing service . When I was competing as an expert on the site - and I consider myself reasonably good at finding flight specials , I was in awe at some of the prices some people were managing to find . I 'd use the site to get other experts to beat my prices for my own travel as well . They 're seriously good . Now the <URL> specify : On Flightfox , travel consultants ( the " Experts " ) try to build you the best trip itinerary in exchange for a fee . You pay this fee for services rendered . If you are unhappy with the service , you may request a refund from your expert . Your expert holds full discretion to approve or decline refunds . So there 's no ' guarantee ' , and there 's always a chance that you 'll find the absolute cheapest fare . Nobody can promise to beat every single price . But if you 're unhappy or they really ca n't beat you , it 's in their interests to refund . In the past when I used it and they could n't beat a YVR - > SFO return flight of mine , they refunded it . I 'd probably still use them for a complex trip . They 're amazing . However I now compete on darjeelin.com ( see referral link in my profile if interested ) as Flightfox has shut a lot of us out , which is disappointing . I 've met the founders and like them and really support the site - as an ' expert ' I 'll use darjeelin , but as a customer , I 'd still use flightfox . It 's a great solution .
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
Based on <URL> , I would say that seating on the left side is best . You would be on the lake side in <URL> and <URL> . I do n't recall the first part of the journey ( on the <URL> ) as particularly scenic . Upper level is nice on " Duplex " rolling stock but do note that many Lyria-branded trains are in fact single level . Furthermore , since seating in first class is in a 2 +1 configuration , Club Duo " vis-à-vis " ( face-to-face ) is only available on one side of a given carriage .
The fastest way ( 41 min from station to station , half-hourly on weekdays ) is the <URL> ( high-speed train ) , but you need to buy an additional ticket on top of your regular ticket ( $ 16.80 = 14.50 + 2.30 ) . The normal train connection ( 60 -- 70 min , 2 trains per half-hour ) would cost you less ( $ 14.50 ) . You can look up times and prices and buy tickets on the <URL> . You will be charged $ 0.50 extra if you pay with credit card . If you are able to find a regular Dutch traveler , you can save 40 % on your ticket . Holders of the Dutch railways reduction card get this reduction outside peak hours and can take up to three fellow travelers with the same reduction . So to go cheap you need to make Dutch friends ;)
It can certainly be less expensive to purchase separate tickets for certain segments as opposed to the complete journey , particularly on a mixed itinerary . I would strongly advise against this unless you are a very experienced international traveler , for a number of reasons : Checked baggage - Even if the two airlines you are flying have an interlining agreement , the agent may still refuse to check them through if the segments are on separate tickets . Thus , you would need to claim your baggage , get processed by customs and immigration , and then stand in line to have them re-checked to your next destination . Flight irregularities - Since the two tickets are independent of one another , agents from the first airline will be unable to protect you on your connecting flight in the event of weather , mechanical problems , air traffic conditions , labor actions , or any of the other things that can cause your first flight to be delayed or canceled . Indeed , airlines adjust their schedules constantly , and you may find that your first flight has been shifted three hours later , making the connection impossible ; you would be responsible for contacting the second airline to make arrangements and to pay any associated change fees . This is of particular concern on international flights , where many routes have frequencies of once a day or even less . If the flights are on the same record ( PNR ) , you avoid the above scenarios , as the agent would have no reason to refuse interlining your bags , and in the event of problems with any segment that causes you to misconnect , the airline you purchased with would be responsible for booking you on alternative flights . Otherwise , in a worst case scenario , you could be forced to pay thousands of dollars for a walk-up fare to continue your journey . Given that , a few hundred dollars seems like cheap insurance . I will say that these risks are not serious when booking your outbound and return trips on separate tickets , unless you have a very short turnaround time . It is not necessarily cheaper to do it this way , and you may lose some benefits . For example , a United Airlines round trip award ticket allows both a stopover and an open jaw , but not on two one-way awards , even though each requires the same number of miles .
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
Note - as Vince importantly pointed out , Les Arcs ( gare == bourg-st-maurice ) is perhaps the French ski station which is best-served by train ! For the record , I just clicked here <URL> and entered " Bruxelles " " Bourg Saint Maurice " There are a number of connections of about 7-8 hours , generally via Lyon . Or you could fly to Chambery then train . But it 's a nuisance to get from chambery airport to the chambery train station . If you do n't mind the incredibly long bus ride , probably just fly to Genève . Finally consider " which " Les Arcs you are going to ( 1800 , 2000 etc ) .
The best cheaper way I 've found to get from Fez to Algiers is flying via Barcelona . As of April 2016 , Fez - Barcelona - Fez is around $ 35-50 on Ryanair , and Barcelona - Algiers - Barcelona is around $ 110 on Vueling , for a total price of $ 150 ( round trip ) .
Personally I did n't plan much , just went with the flow , but that depends on how much freedom you have . Work out how much time you have . Bear in mind that a Russian tourist visa is 30 days , but you can get a Business visa for tourist purposes ( I had zero problems ) and that 's valid for 60 days , multiple entry . Work out your budget . Hostels are pretty cheap in most cities . However , Moscow and St Petersburg are expensive - European expensive . Starbucks in Moscow ( I use it for my price gauge ) was frightening ! Work out what cities you want to stop off in . You do NOT want to just train from end to end . Remember , Russia is BIG . Russia is LONG . Russian trains are SLOW . There are frequent stops - although they are almost to the minute reliable , in my experience . As an indication , Moscow to Novosibirsk takes 52 hours . Work out what class you want to travel in . Platzkart is fun to do for some segments - you get beds in a 54-bed carriage . It 's social , you meet lots of people . Kupe class is 4-beds in a cabin . More secure and quiet , but if you get crappy roommates , it can suck . Work out if you want top or bottom bunk - the price varies . Also some trains ( Between St Petersburg and Moscow , for example ) can also offer merely seating class - but you always seem to get 2 seats or more to yourself , so can sleep quite comfortably , although it 's a lot less secure , and you quite often get drunken soldiers or louts keeping you awake . Work out what sites are near each city , and therefore how long you want to spend there . As a starting point , Moscow does n't near nearly as much time as St Petersburg . Also be aware that if you stop in Irkutsk , you 'll want to go to Lake Baikal , which to do properly you 'll want three days , minimum . Work out a rough guide for length , activities , price and see if this fits into your visa . Look at flights in and out of start and end points ( I assume you 're not going both ways on the train ) . Look at visas for Mongolia and China - but you can pick these up in Irkutsk , Russia quite easily ( Mongolian visa takes 2 days , or less if you 're prepared to pay ) . Do you want to go into the desert in Mongolia ? It 's a minimum 4-5 day tour from Ulaanbaatar . Assuming you finish in Beijing , allow time to travel there as well . Put a couple of buffer / rest days in here and there . Although you will get a lot of resting time on the trains . Learn the ten most useful phrases . Hello , thank you , train station , bus station " where is x " , your country in Russian , and " what time is x " is an excellent start . Decide if you 're going to buy all your tickets outside the country . Personally I would n't , it gives you more flexibility and I 've never had a problem getting a train ticket even the day before in Russia - well , aside from in Irkutsk after 7pm . Get invitation , get visa , buy flights . Go to Russia , and enjoy it !
Bus 100 ( Nice - Monaco - Menton ) is a very good option and costs a mere 1.50 $ ( <URL> ) . It runs every 15 minutes mostly , and the trip takes 30-45 minutes . It takes an absolutely scenic route along the coast , passing through seaside towns such as <URL> and <URL> . ( There 's also express bus 100X which takes the motorway and costs 4 $ ( 2012 ) ; obviously not as good for sightseeing . ) In Nice , the 100 now leaves from <URL> ; follow link for exact locations on map . ( The departure stop has changed a couple of times in recent years , having previously been <URL> , next to Place Garibaldi , and <URL> . ) Arriving in Monaco , there are 6 stops to choose from ( do get off at one of these as the bus continues towards Menton ) : Cimetière , <URL> , Stade Nautique , Office de Tourisme , Place des Moulins , Les Carabiniers . Heading from Monaco towards Nice , the route is slightly different ; then the Monaco stops are : Les Carabiniers , Place des Moulins , Casino ( Allée Lumière ) , Sainte Dévote , <URL> , Cimetière . The buses do n't run very late : last one from Nice leaves at 20:00 , and from Monaco at 20:22 . First departures in the morning are about 6:00 . You 'll find details and full list of stops in <URL> . Alternatively , take the train ( " Nice Ville " to " Monaco Monte Carlo " ) . It is faster ( 22 mins ) and arguably easier , but costs a little more at 3.90 $ . There are about 2 regional trains per hour ( daytime ) , <URL> . A good thing is that the trains run much later ; last one leaves from Nice 22:25 and from Monaco 23:12 ( on weekdays ) . The above applies to regional trains ( TER ) which would probably be your primary choice on this route , though you could also catch an intercity/TGV .
I figured Wikipedia has nice tables of all lines ( regional , national , international ) serving each of the major Paris stations . It does not render as nice as a map but they are all there : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
Yes , it can be done quite easily ! <URL> to doing so , which is well worth a read ! On weekends during the winter , there are two direct Eurostar services between London and Moutiers , Aime &amp; Bourg St Maurice . There are daytime trains both ways on Saturdays , or an overnight one out on Friday nights , back on Saturday night ( but it does n't have beds , just seats ) . A large number of the popular resorts are just a short transfer away from these stations ( tens of minutes , not several hours ! ) Another option is to take the Eurostar to Paris , then either a daytime TGV to the alps , or an overnight sleeper ( with couchette beds ! ) . This does involve a cross-Paris transfer though , which might be an issue depending on luggage - it 's a single metro ride with a few flights of stairs to cross Paris . Alternately , for the Swiss alps , and some bits of France ( eg Chamonix ) , you can take a Eurostar then Lyria TGV , with a cross-platform change in Lille . These services are generally unaffected by the weather - in January 2013 when there was a lot of snow in the UK and northern France , lots of flights were cancelled , but the daytime Eurostar was only a few minutes late into Bourg !
Megabus is okay . At this time it is one of the more sensible options . You can also check <URL> . They have similar prices and a lot of connections . Choose what suits you best . Note that Eurolines will drop you near the Brussels North railway station . Megbus stops near the Central station , a stone 's throw from the Grand Place . The Central station is a bit better connected to the local public transport network than the North station . But eventually it depends on where you want to go . <URL> would be a more convenient option ( quicker and more comfortable ) but significantly more expensive than the bus ! The CEO of the Belgian railways has announced " some solutions " for this week , without specifying which ones ... ( <URL> ) . Stay tuned ! UPDATE ( 01/02/2013 ) The promised solution is there . You can read the official relaese in <URL> or <URL> . As of the 18th of February 2013 , there will be two direct IC trains from Brussels to The Hague , taking 2h15 and stopping in Mechelen , Antwerp , Roosendaal , Dordrecht and Rotterdam . As of the 11th of March 2013 , there will be 8 daily trains . Due to network congestion , the trains will not continue to Amsterdam . Travelers to Amsterdam have to change trains in Rotterdam . During the weekends the trains will only run from Antwerp to The Hague , due to works on the Brussels-Antwerp line . A light a the end of the tunnel ? Wait and see . In Summer there will be a final decision . In December 2014 there will be " normal " hourly trains again between Amsterdam and Brussels .
I was not able to find train connection but on the pages of the <URL> you can find buses that go to Trieste ( local name in Slovenian : Trst ) . This is much shorter trip than taking detours and taxis as suggested by Paola . Here is a sample :
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
Safety Disclaimer There are various way to do this , none of which are risk-free . Any damage to you , your personal property , nature , the Universe is entirely your fault . You Can not Fully Charge Your Device The bottom line however is that you should avoid fully-charging the battery . Instead you should aim for a short charge , giving you enough juice to continue operating your device for a limited time period . In other words the solution outlined below is a temporary fix which is aimed at giving you time to get to the nearest ( safe ) power supply . Necessary Equipment You will need : A power supply of some sort Something to use as a resistance to reduce the current flow between your charger and the battery Light bulbs are perfect for this kind of thing Protective gear of any kind Loose wiring to connect things together Basic knowledge of electronics . Procedure <URL> which explains both the underlying method and the safety risks involved . To summarise : Check your power supply output - both Voltage and Current Check your battery specs - Voltage rating and maximum charge in mAh Compute the potential difference between your supply and battery Once you have this data you use <URL> to compute the resistance you need to obtain enough current to charge your battery , but low enough for this procedure to be safe This computation would work out to something like this : where is the total resistance provided by whatever you are using as a resistor If you are using bulbs as resistors you would have to measure their resistance , either empirically like the guy in the <URL> did , or mathematically using again Ohm 's law ( <URL> ) The resistors must be placed in series so that their total resistance is equal to the sum of the individual resistances At this point you wire the resistances in series Wear protective clothing : gloves and glasses are a minimum ! You then connect the negative pole of the power supply to the negative pole of the battery : To charge you now have to connect the positive pole of the power supply to the bulbs , to the positive pole of the battery : How do you know if this is working ? The battery temperature will increase . Based on your previous computation , since you know the mAh rating of the battery you know how long you have to apply current for it to be fully charged . Also know that the typical charge profile of a battery is not linear , so applying current for half the time required for a full charge will not half-charge your battery . It will most probably charge it more .
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
end question
start question
How much scaffolding is currently on Neuschwanstein Castle ?
Currently , there is unfortunately a lot of scaffolding going on in Neuschwanstein . I quote the official homepage : Restoration works at the western and northern façade Because of restoration works the western and northern façade of Neuschwanstein Castle will be scaffolded until the end of 2012 . We apologize for any inconveniences . The guided tours in the castle are not affected by the works . You can have a look by yourself using one of these two webcams . Unfortunately it is night now , so you wo n't see a lot ;) <URL> <URL>
It 's possible , although I would not necessary recommend it in the current climate . First , a map courtesy of the CIA : Start from <URL> , in the Turkish area of Kurdistan . Cross into Iraqi Kurdistan via the <URL> checkpoint , firmly in Kurdish hands , and the town of Zakho . Detour to <URL> at Syria 's northeastern tippy-top if you absolutely must plant your flag in Syrian Kurdistan , then continue to Iran via Erbil ( Irbil ) , which has direct buses to Urmia ( " Orumiyeh " on the CIA map ) via the <URL> checkpoint . Ta-dah , you 've now covered all three ( or four ) countries .
Go to the airport anyway . Most likely you will end up with a seat . If not , the airline will take care of you and get you to your destination on another flight . Some possible explanations : The flight is overbooked . If someone else fails to show up for the flight , you 'll have a seat . If not , they will offer incentives ( vouchers for future travel ) for someone to give up their seat and take a later flight . If nobody does , they will bump someone at random ( not necessarily you ) , give them compensation , and put them on a later flight . There are seats still available , but they want to save them for special customers ( elite-level frequent flyers , etc ) . Perhaps they are " premium " seats with extra legroom , exit rows , etc. . Right now these special customers have seats elsewhere on the plane . Sometime before departure , the airline will upgrade their elite customers into these premium seats , leaving their original seats for you . So you most likely will get a seat , though you may not have much choice as to which seat . If you buy your ticket further in advance , when more seats are available , you will have a better chance of being able to confirm your seat assignment .
There seems to be no limit as such . However if you carry more than 10 ' 000 $ , you <URL> depending on the country . For example in <URL> , you are to declare it when orally asked to do so . For the <URL> on the other hand , there seems to be no need to do so . So if you consider taking more than 10 ' 000 $ , you should check the rules for the specific country you are flying to .
10:27 am to 11:54 am is insanely tight . The domestic to international MCT at JFK is 1:15 so I think the booking is possible but JFK is notorious for issuing impossible MCTs ( at one point United was selling a ticket with a transfer time of 30 minutes to a different terminal ! ) . So you are a full 12 minutes above the official unrealistic MCT . Nope . You land at LGA at 8:10 AM , let 's say you clear that airport in 40 minutes , that 's 8:50 AM , the drive over should not be more than 40 minutes but even if it 's 60 you have two hours to go through JFK check-in and security . This is way more realistic .
Compared to an average US city , I expect you to find Belgium a very expensive country . Taxi 's are extremely expensive , expect to pay > 25Euro 's for innercity trips . Having said that , public transport like trains and busses are really really cheap . The Belgian Railways have a card called <URL> or <URL> which makes traveling through Belgium rather cheap . Since I am local to Belgium , I am not a good reference on cost of accommodation . If you are traveling in a group , you might consider going for self catering <URL> . Also check booking.com , which is a service that worked for me in many European cities . They often have very interesting offers on the day itself . On food the choices are huge . " Frieten " or French Fries start just below 2 Euro . Being a local dish Belgians consider part of their local heritage I would recommend to at least once visit a local " Frituur " . Other cheap options are going to the restaurants in the shopping malls , especially from the chains , but do n't expect anything special there . Another cheap " fastfood " solution can be found in the many kebab places . Then there are the all you can eat places . Almost every city or bigger village does have a " wokchinees " , or a chinees restaurant where you can eat as much as you can for around 25-30 euro 's . A different cuisine , but also all you can eat can be found at the <URL> ( Link in French and Dutch only ) . In general I would say that a decent restaurant dinner would start at costing you 20 Euro 's per person . Be aware that in Belgium you pay for the water you order . There are <URL> ( I am not affiliated ) , but in general a glass of water will start at 1-1 .5 Euro 's . You do n't get tapwater , although in Belgium tapwater is of high quality . Take home dishes ( Pizza or kebab ) will start around 5 euro . If you are in Belgium in the Summer try to locate a local cultural festival like the one running in Antwerp : " <URL> " with its <URL> . Usually these festivals aim at a local audience ( hence the Dutch only websites ) , but sometimes you can find some really nice dishes there for very decent prices and the atmosphere is usually brilliant . The best advise I can give is to go outside the tourist centers to find a decent dish for a decent price . This also fits Brussels .
The museum is quite small - 2 or 3 rooms , as I recall . Reviews on TripAdvisor suggest 1-2 hours , depending on whether you care to watch the the half hour documentary on his life . Personally , I did n't watch the entire film , and probably spent under an hour there , and I felt like I had a fairly comprehensive view of all the exhibits . Obviously if you 're an artist or someone who can view the exhibits at a much more detailed level than I can , you could take longer . I would recommend <URL> and asking how long those take .
Promoting comments to an answer ... Looking at the ever useful <URL> , there are three typical routes . One is via Turkey , Syria and Jordan . My understanding of the current situation in Syria is that this one is out . Next up is a direct ferry from Greece , but that is n't running currently . Finally there are suggestions that you can get a ferry from Cyprus on to Israel , I 'd suggest you try looking into that . If you wanted to get to Jordan avoiding Syria , then you 'd have to go through Iraq , which is n't any better ! I think you 'll have to consign yourself to not overlanding it via Turkey any time soon . Ferry in is your best bet . One other possible option is via Egypt . Friends in Egypt tell me that the situation in the country is much better now , however relations between Egypt and Israel are n't great ( to say the least ... ) . That 'd likely mean taking the <URL> and then onwards by land to the border ( and hope it 's open ) . Snag is , that ferry is reported to have issues at the moment too , as it normally stops in Syria on the way Looks like your only bet is the Cyprus ferry , assuming <URL> is telling the truth about it running at the moment ...
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
India does n't have a strong tipping culture . Still tourists are used to tip there , especially when they had a good service . And to be honest , this is a general trend in the vast majority of countries around the world . When you have received a good service , you are encouraged to tip . This is a way to show your appreciation and also to make those people life a bit better . This also encourage them to deliver good service to other tourists . 10 years ago , it was pretty different but with the explosion of tourism in a lot of countries , tipping has quickly become something that is expected and widely accepted . Now with regards to the amount ! This is a key point . You should tip between 3 % and 10 % of the overall amount . So if this is something " expensive " , you 'll usually pay around 3-5 % and if this is cheap , more around 7-10 % ( for instance 70 to 100 INR for a 1,000 INR bill ) . Then your comment is right , you should also take into consideration the salary . In India , depending on the region , the level of seniority and the grade of the restaurant/hotel , the staff is paid between 7.000 INR and 15.000 INR per month . So for instance , if someone helps you with your luggage . Let 's say that you have 2 large pieces and bring them to your home . If this takes 10 minutes , you could tip him 20-40 INR . I recently wrote a post about tipping in different countries . It is n't specific to India but <URL> .
There is no universal rule on stamping visas , entry or exit stamps in passports other than , they are not supposed to be stamped on Amendment / Endorsements pages in the back of passport ( but if there is no other space ... ) In the good old days , passport pages were divided into quarters and countries used two quarters , left for the entry , right for the exit stamps . I think it was more just customary rather than mandatory . Today immigration stamps come in a myriad of sizes and shapes , and many immigration officers ca n't be bothered to make the stamping look neat . Most will try to put the entry and exit stamps on the same or facing pages . I have pages with 6 to 8 stamps on them . Some countries do have rules that your passport needs to have XX completely blank pages and you will not be granted entry ( nor be allowed to board the plane to those countries ) without the blank pages . Others will simply stamp in any blank spot big enough for their stamp .
There is really no limit set on the amount of cash you can carry into the country . The only difference is whether or not you need to declare it when you cross the border which according to <URL> is 10000 Euro . The only thing is that when you carry amounts of that size or larger Customs and various other agencies start to get curious on where this money came from . Additional Info as per @Annoyed 's comment From the site of the <URL> Export of foreign exchange/currency notes : Indian residents going abroad are allowed to take with them foreign currency upto any amount so long as the same has been purchased from an authorized foreign exchange dealer as per norms . Any person resident out of India is allowed to take out of India unspent foreign currency not exceeding the amount brought by him on his arrival in India provided that in the case of foreign currency notes exceeding US$ 5,000 / - or its equivalent or foreign exchange in the form of currency notes , bank notes or traveller 's cheques exceeding US$ 10,000 / - or its equivalent , the same was declared to the Customs authorities in Currency Declaration Form ( CDF ) at the time of his arrival in India . So long story short . Still no limitation as long as the source can be proven legitimate .
First , <URL> ( aka Eid al-Fitr , the last day of Ramadan ) was on 28 July in 2014 . <URL> ( aka Eid al-Adha , the festival commemorating Abraham 's sacrifice and the climax of the Hajj pilgrimage ) is an entirely separate and much smaller festival . " Hari Raya " alone usually refers to the first of these . So in short , traveling around Hari Raya Puasa/Aidilfitri in Malaysia is best approximated as like traveling around Christmas in the West . The eve of Hari Raya , or " virtual Christmas Eve " , most companies have a half-day and everybody who possibly can heads out will balik kampung ( " return to village " ) to join their families , parents , etc. . This means massive congestion on main thoroughfares including the North-South Highway ( Singapore-KL-Ipoh-Penang ) and border crossings ( esp . those from Singapore ) . Public transport will be sold out , buses and flights packed , etc , and you will have a tough time finding a rental car as well . Not a good time at all to travel if you can possibly avoid it . Hari Raya itself is like virtual Christmas Day : most companies , attractions , restaurants , etc will be closed . However , hotels and core services ( airports etc ) of course stay open , as do some businesses that are owned by/cater to the Chinese and Indian communities . Also , unlike most strictly family-centric Western Christmas traditions , it 's common for Malays to have open houses in the evening , where friends and acquaintances are invited to join the feast . After the Hari Raya holiday ( and any attached weekend ) ends , the migration reverses , and the same roads etc are jammed again , only in the opposite direction .
According to the <URL> : Residents of the 33 approved countries can obtain a Tourist Visa upon arrival . The visa can be purchased for a nominal fee at the airport or port . It can also be issued online instantly prior to travel . This visa is valid for one month and can not be extended . The <URL> are : Fees Visa issuance fees : QR 100 for each visa , QR 50 for each accompanying person and QR 200 for overstay fine per day . At the current exchange rate this works out to ~ 28 . This visa is valid for one month and non-extendable .
There are two options . The easy way is cash , which is ( at time of writing ) still accepted by every toll plaza on every Japanese expressway : just collect a chit on entry and pay when you leave . But if you 're driving longer distances or on multiple days , you 'll want to look into getting set up for ETC ( electronic toll collection , but called " ETC " even in Japanese ) . This requires both a reader mounted on the dashboard , which is standard equipment in Japanese rental cars , and an ETC card , which is used to bill you . Getting your own card is a bit of a hassle if you 're not a resident , but fortunately most ( but not all ) rental agencies participate in a scheme that lets you rent one for only around & yen ; 300 for two weeks . It 's worth calling ahead to check if one will be available though ; if not , you can use <URL> . Convenience aside , while standard toll fees for ETC are exactly the same as paying in cash , having an ETC card also lets you take advantage of a plethora of discount schemes for weekends , late nights , etc : <URL> Particularly useful are the tourist-only regional Expressway Pass schemes , where you can pay flat fees of as little as & yen ; 500/day to use them . <URL> These are quite a deal if you 're driving longer distances , as the regular toll is around & yen ; 25/kilometer , meaning ( say ) Sapporo-Obihiro , a distance of under 200km , would cost you over & yen ; 5000 otherwise .
I have n't done a Times Square New Year 's Eve in over a decade , but I 'd say if you can manage changing trains at 42nd Street during rush hour , it 's no great challenge . Compared to most American cities ( if not , say , Mumbai ) , New York City is an " unyielding crush of humanity " on any ordinary day . The sidewalks are crowded , the subways are crowded , the stores are crowded . The good news is that on account of this , New Yorkers are quite accustomed to negotiating crowds wherever they go . You find others in the crowd going the same direction as you are and go with that flow rather than trying to move against it on your own ... or you learn to push and be pushed a little . That 's how the stereotypical New Yorker is , to this day , always rushing around town from appointment to appointment -- not working endlessly at the office like a Tokyoite or on the mobile phone stuck in traffic like an Angeleno . New Year 's Eve is the biggest party day , but there are other big parties like St. Patrick 's Day , not to mention dozens of parade days , street festival days , game days , and other excuses to congregate in public areas . Inside Times Square or wherever the main event is , people will be shoulder to shoulder , but in the area beyond only an extreme agoraphobe would be unable to move about . Road travel is tougher , as surrounding streets may be closed during special events and it may be hard to find a taxi , but that 's true of any city . If you find a group of immobile tourists on New Year 's Eve in Manhattan , it 's probably the cold . People seem to underestimate how cold it gets , since the tall buildings both block out the sun and channel stiff winds .
Probably yes , but ... I put in my visa application today . I ticked the box for multiple-entry 12 month visa . I had a printout for a flight into Guangzhou and out again just under two months later . I also had a printout for one week of accommodation in Guangzhou . In fact I was told I must have these things the first time I went to the Chinese visa office because at that time I only had a printout for the flight in , not for a return flight , and not for accommodation . On my second visit a couple of hours later they told me that these documents are actually only sufficient to apply for a single - or double-entry visa , and not for a multiple entry visa ! It 's very hard to get detailed information on what you must supply to get what kind of visa for China . Hard to get out of the embassy and consulate websites , hard to learn from the people working at the consulates and visa offices , hard to find on the Internet , hard to find out by asking travel agents , and even hard to garner from the crowd of travel experts at travel.stackexchange.com ! To get such a visa you will need to document more of your itinerary by showing proof of flights and accommodations . But I still do not know the details of how many flights and how many accommodation bookings . Maybe you need to provide a full itinerary with everything booked in advance before you even know if your visa will be approved . But maybe you just need to book three flights and two accommodations . For some reason the people working in Chinese consulate visa sections and Chinese visa offices seem to prefer to play their cards close their chests and provide only the bare minimum of information each time you bring in your application forms . Now perhaps travel agencies that book entire tour packages would know all the details and fill out the visa application forms for you . I really do not know what the best approach could be for an independent traveller who wants as much flexibility to travel around China , leaving and re-entering . Update : When I picked up my visa I chatted with the lady in the visa office about how I had wanted a one-year multiple entry visa and she told me that it requies the applicant to show at least three booked flights and accommodations . I did not think to ask her if that meant three return flights or whether three flights either in or out of China would suffice .
I would not give to much about the official information on those sites , since it 's mostly marketing and/or eventually a few years old and the owner never updated it on mayor booking sites . Fun fact : there is a marketing language in the travel industry ; for example " central location " for a hotel could mean that it gets a lot of traffic or street noise all day long , and you might have trouble sleeping , while " quiet area " can mean that you wo n't have any public transport or other facilities nearby .
There are a few exceptions that I know of from the TSA , and these have to do with medication or disability assistance equipment ; and children 's formula baby food , etc. ( for the liquid restriction ) . All other prohibitions are not subject to exemptions . This is because some of the items are classified as hazardous material ( HAZMAT ) that need to carried by certified companies/equipment ; in other cases it is banned by the FAA for safety ; and finally because it can be considered a weapon . Your only recourse - if the item can not be checked in , is to have it shipped to your destination as cargo - and if it is hazmat it may not even be allowed to fly and will have to be driven there .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
end question
start question
Layover at Narita , Japan . Do I need a transit visa ?
No visa is required for transiting in Japanese airports if you have immediate flight connections regardless of nationality . Anyway , there is a <URL> which is intended for people who have longer layovers before transiting and want to go sightseeing or resting in Japan for few days ( up to 15 days ) .
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
As noted in a comment , the agreement mentioned in that news article has not yet gone into effect . In fact there are several outstanding changes to Turkish visas which are pending but not yet active . There will be changes to quite a few countries ' visas that go into effect on February 1st of 2012 . That would be the earliest date I would expect the Nigerian agreement to be effective , but I do n't know that it 's scheduled for then and kind of doubt it will . In short , at the moment he still needs a visa . No confirmation is available as to when the agreement with Nigeria will take effect .
If you are an Indian passport holder then you do need to apply for a transit visa . You can <URL> and hand them in at an Australian Visa Office in your country .
Luggage can be collected by flyer only after clearing immigration and thus by buying visa . Fees is QAR 100 ( USD = 100 / ~ 3.65 ) , and can br paid only by card ( any , debit/credit , which will work with visa/mastercard etc networks ) no cash allowed . Source : I live in Doha . Edit : The only certain thing is , if airline does the transfer of luggage from one leg to other , then you do n't need visa . If you , a.k.a Flyer need to collect it &amp; then check it in for next leg , then you need visa . Most probably if you get all the boarding passes at the start of your journey , most of the times it means your luggage is checked through all the way , and airline itself will do the luggage handling at transit airports .
Kosovo : Based on the list <URL> from the Kosovo Ministry of Foreign Affairs , you do indeed need a visa as an Indian citizen . Based on <URL> , it seems you can arrange to mail your passport to one of the visa issuing locations . Based on the <URL> page , there is no requirement to show up in person to submit the visa request . Further , one of those locations is in Istanbul . Additionally , based on the QA website linked , and the <URL> section of the Kosovo MOFA , it seems holders of multi-entry Schengen visas do not need a special visa to enter Kosovo . However , it is unclear from the documentation if that visa is valid for the full 90 days , or for only 15 days ( <URL> ) . If you take a look at a map of Kosovo , you will see that it only borders Serbia to the North . While not recognized by Serbia , Kosovo is recognized by over 100 nations and has permanent membership in several major global institutions . I suggest <URL> . However , if you plan to stay away from the northern part of Kosovo , there seems to be no reason why you would need a Serbian visa . The information in that post is echoed/backed-up by <URL> . Further , <URL> that Serbian border guards might deny entry into Serbia if they see a stamp from Kosovo . Turkey : For transiting , as long as you do not leave the airport terminal , you should not have any need for a Turkish visa . This is common practice is most countries . Also , see <URL> . Based on <URL> , if you wish to visit Turkey as an Indian citizen you do indeed need a visa . Much like Kosovo , there is a special provision that will fast-track you for an e-Visa if you already have a Schengen visa .
Although I agree 35L can be enough if you only intend to carry two changes of clothes and some small gear , I 'm not sure you 'll be comfortable enough having most of your things hanging outside your backpack ( and this will be the case for at least your tent , your sleeping mat - either on top or bottom of your bag - , and maybe your stove and tins . Even your shoes , if it 's summer ) . You can put your camera , your first aid kit ( bring one ! ) and your clothes inside . You 'll still be fine with a 35L , but if you are also bringing food and water you might consider a 50L . It really depends on what sort of trip you are planning , what places you want to visit and what 's available around those . You 'll still have to carry whatever you chose to bring , but backpacks do n't have much weight by themselves so a bigger one is not that costly .
The Rainbow Bridge is a land border crossing between Canada and the US . There are no facilities to cross it without departing one country and entering the other , so as a result you will need whatever legal status is required to enter the other country - which obviously depends on your citizenship . If you are a Canadian or US citizen then you do not normally need a Visa , but you will require a passport or a passport card . There are exceptions to this if you have a criminal record , etc , but these are the same for any Canadian citizen entering the US or vice versa . If you are a member of a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) for entering the US then you do not normally need a visa ( again , with the usual exceptions around criminal records , etc ) . As you are entering by land you do not need an approved ETSA as you would if entering by air , however you will need to fill in an I94W form . If you are from a country that requires a visa to enter the US , then you will require a visa . Technically if you do not have a visa then the US would most likely " deport " you to the country you arrived from ( ie , back over the bridge to Canada ) - do not think of this as an easy way to get around the requirement if you are just expecting to see the bridge . Doing this will give you a permanent mark against your US immigration record , and make it harder to enter the US in the future ! The main thing you need to keep in mind is that you will be departing from and then re-entering Canada , and thus if you require a visa for entering Canada you should make sure that it will allow you to re-enter . eg , if you are on a single entry visa for Canada , you will technically not be allowed re-enter after visiting the USA .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
There 's a <URL> in LCCT at KUL ( and also another in the main terminal ) . I 've not been to the LCCT one , but I think it 's very similar to the one in the main terminal , which I have been in a few times . You can get a shower ( they 'll provide towels and shower gel ) , which I find nice between long flights . They have a large number of chairs , some with power points , some comfy sofa like ones , some at tables etc. . There are a small number of newspapers ( not a great selection though ) , some magazines , and a TV or two . There should also be a few massage chairs , but they 're very popular . There is WiFi available , and a few computers to use . Food and drink wise , there ought to be a handful of different simple hot meals available , mostly Malaysian style , along with some snacks and fruit . There 's beer , soft drinks , coffee etc. . It 's certainly not a high-end lounge like you get with a lot of the big flag carriers , but it 's certainly above average for third party lounges . Access to Plaza Premium lounges is covered by a range of programs , so it may be worth checking if you already have access . I know that Priority Pass gives access ( that 's how I get in ) , as do a range of higher-end credit cards . I do n't believe that the Plaza website tells you about which cards have access , instead you 'll need to check with your credit card about if it 's in their lounge program or not . Alternately , you can pay to get in . You can just pay on the door , but you can normally get some much better deals if you book online in advance , through a third party website . The headline price at the lounge is Rm118 for 2 hours , Rm158 for 5 hours . If you hunt around online , you can probably get it for about a third of that ( I 'm pretty sure I found a hefty discount the one time I went before getting a Priority Pass . A quick google found 3 hours for # 20 , or 6 hours for # 27.50 , on a respected lounge access website , you might well be able to beat that ) . ( There 's also a higher risk option , which is to hope you manage to make friends with someone with a Priority Pass or similar , who 's able to guest you into the lounge . If you do n't find someone , then you 'll be stuck having to pay the full fee on arrival to get in . You might have some luck if you find someone on a suitable FF forum , and arrange something in advance )
No for both countries : Peru : With a few exceptions ( notably some Asian , African and communist countries ) , visas are not required for travelers entering Peru . Tourists are permitted a 30 - to 90-day stay , which is stamped into their passports and onto a tourist card , called a Tarjeta Andina de Migración ( Andean Immigration Card ) , that you must return upon leaving the country . The actual length of stay is determined by the immigration officer at the point of entry . Read more : <URL> Bolivia : Citizens of most South American and Western European countries can get a tourist card on entry for stays up to 90 days , depending on the nationality . Read more : <URL> I had no problem getting 90 days each on the borders .
I ended up applying for the visa at the embassy in Tehran and picked it up 7 days later in Mashhad . A few points : it was not ready after six days it was n't even ready on the morning of the 7th day , but after some phone calls from the guy at the consulate to Ashgabat , it was ready in the afternoon of the 7th day . You pay when picking up the visa , in my case it was $ 50 USD I 've got a 3 day rather than a 5 day transit visa , not sure why , but the nice guy at the consulate was able to change it to 5 days without an additional fee . You can not change your entry and exit border crossings when picking up the visa , so make sure you pick the right ones when applying . You can apply and collect in both Tehran and Mashhad . You do n't leave your passport with them between application and collection . You can not get any visa at the border crossings . The embassy in Tehran is closed on both Turkman and Iranian holidays , even minor ones . In Tehran the embassy is open Mondays to Saturdays , in Mashhad the consulate is only open Mondays to Fridays .
<URL> : ( Updated : 2015/03/18 ) Visas are not required of aliens , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport . No visa is required for ordinary passport holders from Singapore , Brunei and Japan to visit China for up to 15 days for business , sightseeing , visiting relatives and friends or transit . As of March 2015 , citizens of 51 countries may stay visa free in Shanghai , Beijing , Guangzhou , Chengdu , Chongqing , Dalian , Shengyang and Harbin for 72 hours while transiting to their destinations .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
In general , you need a visa as an Indonesian passport holder . The only exemption , which applies to you , is where you have a re-entry visa and a travel plan including travel tickets to a country like the USA or Canada . If you have a re-entry visa to the US , and you do not plan to stay in Korea longer than 30 days , you can enter <URL> , bound for the USA as a holder of a re-entry visa to the USA .
No , you do n't : if you 've used your USA visa at least once , you can enter Georgia visa-free for 90 days . Foreign nationals who have a multiple entry US , EU or Schengen member states visas , which have validity for one year or more and had been used once at least , can enter or stay on the territory of Georgia without visa up to 90 days , within the validity term of the visa . Source : <URL>
You do n't need a transit visa as a Nicaraguan transiting Shanghai Pudong en route to Taipei : / 14APR16 / 1550 UTC National Nicaragua ( NI ) Transit China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) Destination Chinese Taipei ( TW ) China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of confirmed onward airline tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours Source : <URL> The same holds for travel in the opposite direction : <URL>
end question
start question
Working for a bed/food in USA , legal on what visa ?
Any kind of work effectively connected with U.S. i.e. performing some labor and getting any kind of compensation ( not necessarily monetary ) <URL> . What you describe fits into <URL> . Those can be arranged through some agencies ( e.g. au pair , work-travel , camp counselling and similar ) . Main purpose/focus is classified as cultural exchange , not as performing work for compensation . You will get a work permit ( as a part of visa ) for some limited time ( e.g. 2 months ) . For longer term unqualified labor ( especially ranch ) , there is <URL> , which has to be initiated by an employer , and is relatively long and complicated process .
If you are flying three CDG-FRA-ORD round trips per year on deeply discounted economy tickets on Lufthansa or Swiss , you should accumulate enough miles to redeem for a one-way transatlantic segment after about 3 years , or about 6 years for a round trip . If you can accumulate those miles faster through a credit card or other Miles &amp; More partners , you may be able to speed up that timeline a bit . There are several different ways you can fly in the business cabin without paying a business fare , so it will be helpful to go through them one by one to see how you could qualify on Miles &amp; More . eVouchers Miles &amp; More provides upgrade eVouchers to its frequent flyers for complimentary space-available single cabin upgrades . A flight within a single award region takes a single eVoucher , whereas flights between two different award regions ( e.g. Europe to North America ) require two eVouchers . In fact , you can even redeem eVouchers for Star Alliance partner upgrades , for certain booking classes . So , provided space were available and you had purchased a Y or B fare , you could upgrade an Air Canada flight CDG-YYZ using your eVouchers . Note that each redemption is for a single leg only . To upgrade all segments on a CDG-FRA-ORD flight , you 'd require three eVouchers total . There are two ways to get eVouchers through the Miles &amp; More program . The first is by attaining Senator status , which requires earning 100,000 status miles in a given calendar year . Each Senator is granted two eVouchers upon attainment or renewal of status . The second way is by qualifying for HON Circle , by accruing 600,000 HON Circle miles ( for flying in first or business class on Miles &amp; More member airlines and certain train journeys within Europe ) in two consecutive calendar years . HON Circle members receive 6 eVouchers upon attainment or renewal of status . Since you say you fly only three transatlantic trips a year , and in discount economy , it seems unlikely you will qualify for SEN or HON Circle . A CDG-FRA-ORD round trip is a little under 9700 miles , and discount fares earn only 50 % status miles per redeemable mile . Should you begin to fly more frequently or pay higher fares , however , these may be within reach . Mileage upgrades You can upgrade your transatlantic leg using miles . From a full economy fare ( B or Y ) , it would cost 35,000 miles , and from an M or H fare it would cost 50,000 miles . Through the Star Alliance upgrade program , you can also upgrade flights on Star Alliance partner airlines for the same level , provided you have purchased a qualifying fare ( B or Y , typically ) . A B , Y , M , or H fare will be considerably more expensive than a deeply discounted ticket , and you will almost certainly get better value for your miles by redeeming for business class awards as opposed to upgrades . This will be of particular interest since you are paying for your fares out of pocket . Mileage redemptions A one-way flight award between Europe and North America costs 52,000 miles , and a round trip costs 105,000 miles ( " Fly Smart " discounts may be available from time to time ) . Mileage redemptions , as noted , will be generally a better value than upgrade rewards , but may be harder to come by . You will need to plan your trips around the availability of business class seats , which will be low or nonexistent in the summer and other peak travel periods such as public holidays . Let us suppose you fly on Lufthansa CDG-FRA-ORD three times per year . It will take you a while to earn the miles required . Other airline programs If you credit your flights to United Airlines ' Mileage Plus instead of Miles &amp; More , you would receive 100 % mileage on M , H , Q , V , G , U , W , and S fares ( although the earning is 0 % on T or L fares ) . At the same time , a one-way business class award flight is only 50,000 miles and a round trip 100,000 . So , even if you continued to fly Lufthansa CDG-FRA-ORD , you could potentially redeem a bit faster . A downside is that Mileage Plus being a much larger program , you may have a harder time finding business class seats available for redemption . US Airways Dividend Miles may be easier to redeem for international rewards than Mileage Plus miles , but they only accrue 50 % on S and W fares , and only 100 % on Y and B fares ( Mileage Plus gives 125 % ) .
Well this is a shocker for me but it seems like Australia got around to implementing this much more quickly than I would 've expected . <URL> states that China was added to the list exactly one week ago : Australia has added China to the list of countries whose citizens are eligible for Work and Holiday Visas . Implementation time frame : 21 September . And there 's only going to be 5,000 places per year for a country with an enormous population . So Chinese friends , apply now ! Update : My friend in China chased this up and tells me they only released the first 1,500 spots so far and those were all gone within minutes ! No word so far on when the next batch of spots will become available .
First of all : is it legal ? Well , I have never heard about such problems too . Regarding Chornogora - yep , it is a kind of national park , there are even some official fees at some entrances , but all camping activities are pretty much allowed . The only places you may have legal problems at are country borders ( like Marmarosy chain ) - usually you have to get permission from local border post . However , there also are real nation parks like <URL> - camping is actually forbidden there . Second , is there the real danger of being attacked or robbed ? Can the camp or the rucksacks be left unattented for a few hours ? Never heard about robbery in mountains . However , usually we try not to leave camp unattended ( or at least close all entrances , pick money and documents along , etc ) . Third : in case of emergency , is it possible to get help from emergency teams ? Never had such a case , but yes , it is possible , especially at popular \ dangerous routes . Here is contacts of local emergency teams - <URL> ( yep , in Ukrainian :( ) . Anyway , you would better have a native speaker with you on the track - it will be much easier just to ask locals about right way or even get yourself out of some troubles .
It has always been illegal and people have been arrested for smoking it in the open . I always love the faces of the tourists being arrested at Schiphol airport or in front of the Central station in Amsterdam for smoking weed . It is a global misconception that in Amsterdam it is as free as smoking cigarettes on the street . The principle has always been , what is called " Gedogen " , which means that it is tolerated as long as you do n't use it in the open and do n't create annoyances . It is the Dutch way of dealing with social problems . It is similar to the so-called " afwerkplekken " for street prostitution . These are designated area 's where street prostitution is tolerated . When ever there is a social problem that is hard to eradicate , the Dutch approach is encapsulate it in known zones , relieving other area 's from problems related to that social problem . In the seventies the Dutch government introduced so called " coffeeshops " , which are designated establishments where cannabis use is tolerated . Again recognize the difference between tolerated and allowed . What has changed recently is the legal status for these coffeeshops . They are now only allowed as a member-only organization for local residents . To get access to a coffeeshop you need to register as a member providing proof you live in the same city . The change of this regulation was guided by the pressure from Belgium and Germany . Border cities like Maastricht , Roosendaal , Terneuzen were like magnets to weed smokers from France , Belgium and Germany , causing problems in those cities and the surrounding countries . This was the reason behind introducing the member-only requirement for coffeeshops . This is also why the weed-pass as it is informally called was first introduced in the border regions and later imposed on other cities like Amsterdam . As Mark already said , again some cities like Amsterdam chose not to spent resources on enforcing this . Border cities did introduce the legislation to require the member-only status of coffeeshops , with the effect that most coffeeshops did close .
If your itinerary is DUB-LHR-LAX , then that Dublin and Shannon have US Pre-Clearance facilities is pretty much irrelevant . Your DUB-LHR flight , while not technically domestic , is essentially similar since you should n't have to enter the UK during transit . You will clear US Immigration and Customs at LAX . You should expect to get any required forms * from the cabin crew sometime during the LHR-LAX flight . * CBP has notably automated their processes now . BA , presumably , will play a video before arrival that describes the process and what travelers are exempt from what procedures .
In short , no , he ca n't realistically bring them on board : under TSA rules , <URL> and thus fall under the " <URL> " restriction of 3 bottles x 100 ml max , and these rules are applied worldwide on international flights . You could still probably bring a few tiny containers of curry and something dry to eat them with ( chapattis , naan , rice etc ) , but you 'd be lucky to get a single meal out of that . " Pies and cakes " are apparently allowed though , so samosas and the like might be OK ? TSA has a <URL> that lets you search for specific items , but Indian food is n't really covered . Also , in general , security tends to err on the side of " <URL> " . I 've had a ~ 120ml tin of canned sprats ( small fish ) confiscated , the apparent logic being that because it 's over 100ml and contains some liquid ( oil ) , it could be used to make a taste explosion or something . Update : Well , that 's the theory . In practice , I just carried some premade cheese fondue mix ( read : " gel " ) through at least 4 security checkpoints that were checking for liquids , and nobody ever noticed . So I 'd go with @Azor - Ahai 's suggestion : bring it on board , and have a Plan B if you do get busted .
Dried fruits in packages are not a problem . Fresh fruits are prohibited . If the masala chai is in a factory package it should be fine as well . If it is home packed or from a fresh market , then USDA inspectors would have the final say .
Yours spider is not listed by <URL> , so it is not forbidden to bring your pet to one of the member states if you comply with the <URL> import rules . It seems that your friend would need to apply for an import permit : For species not listed , the requirements are not known . However , exporters wanting to ship livestock or germplasm whose requirements are not listed above , should have the interested party ( importer/buyer ) in the country of destination apply for an Import Permit at the appropriate ministry . This Import Permit will most likely outline the specific requirements
Well I 'm a bit of a sub-expert on this , having worked nine years in the hostelling industry and encountering them as a traveller once in India . There 's a bit of a dirty little secret in the hospitality industry about just how bad the bed bug problem has been for the past few years . Apparently all the big/expensive hotel chains have been having problems - it 's not just dirty dives with holes in the wall that are affected . What are the signs of a bed bug infestation ? Bed bugs hide in furniture , cracks , under carpets , inside power sockets , etc. . They love wooden furniture . Bed bugs only come out late at night . In my experience around 3am / 4am is prime time for them . They like to bite then move along a bit , bite again , move along a bit , etc. . You will have little straight lines of small bites . Their bites do n't seem to hurt and do not itch , but they do bleed a little . You will have little spots of blood on your sheets , pillow , pyjamas , etc. . They look a bit like baby cockroaches . They can range in size from a tiny spot to about the size of the nail of your little finger . You can surprise them by turning the lights on suddenly and looking through the sheets and under the pillow . They do n't move fast but seem to be able to hide pretty quickly . What to do if you find bed bugs ? Bed bugs do not carry disease . They 're yucky and I hate them , but you ca n't catch anything from them . Infestations of bed bugs are very hard to get rid of ! This is because the eggs are harder to kill than the hatched bugs . It takes at least one or two weeks . We always call in professional exterminators . Individual bed bugs are easy to kill ! Too hot or too cold will kill them . Wash all your clothes in hot water ! Everything else of your luggage I recommend wrapping and sealing in tough black plastic bin liners and leaving in direct sun for at least a day or two . If you have an overseas flight , the low temperatures in the luggage hold will kill them ! I do n't know the details on how high and how many hours are necessary though . We 're pretty sure we get ours from travellers arriving in Australia from Thailand . Bed bugs spread very easily ! Tell your accommodation that they have them . It 's up to them how to deal with them but if they are responsible the sooner they know they have a problem the better . If you move your stuff to another room or another hotel or hostel without the hot wash and black bagging I 've mentioned you will probably spread them . Especially do n't move to stay at a friend 's place without taking those precautions ! ( Sorry for all the exclamation points but a lot of the advice is strong and necessary . )
An Algerian national needs to apply for a visa in order to enter the UK , even if they have a French visa and even if they are taking the Eurostar . You will not be able to show the UKVI people your visa at the rail station , or even at the border . On the bright side , the application does n't take three months to process ; it 's more like a week . You can apply online at the <URL> . If you have a clean history and otherwise qualify , you will be able to access the various opportunities to upgrade your application to priority status . That will cost over and above the GBP 83 for the basic application fee . The downside is that since you are in France , you probably do not have all the requisite evidence to hand . It 's something to consider before applying . For your last question : no , the ' spur of the moment ' option is n't available to those travelling on an Algerian passport .
According to <URL> : If you do n't have photos you will be asked to pay a small fee ( few dollars ) for scanning your photograph from your passport , and placing it onto your visa application form . Another opinion from <URL> : passport photo is/may be required ( although you may be able to pay a US$ 1 " fee " to have this requirement waived ) - recently ( June 2013 ) passport photos were not asked for ( at Friendship Bridge ) .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
Here 's my understanding ( based on lots of Russian travel ) : You can legally explore anywhere in Russia , except keep the following in mind : 1 ) Do n't forget about registration requirements . If you 're moving around a lot , this is likely a non-issue , but keep all your bus/train tickets , etc. . If you 're using a central hub city for radial day-trips , register in the hub city . 2 ) " Closed cities " : Some cities require a permit to get into ( typically ones with sensitive military-related industry ) . I do n't know whether it 's possible to get a permit unless you e.g. have a close relative there . Some cities ( e.g. many cities in the north of Krasnoyarsk Krai ) are closed only to foreigners , so locals may not know they 're " closed " . There 's a list here : <URL> 3 ) Border areas . Unless you 're in the process of legally crossing the border via an official crossing point , you need a border area permit to be there . The permit is possible to get but takes a long time ( around 2 months ) . Note that in some areas ( e.g. in the Arctic ) some areas may be defined as " border areas " despite being thousands of kilometers from the actual border . 4 ) Due to recent political tensions , I would STRONGLY advise to stay away from anything that is even remotely related to the military or any sensitive industry , especially if you 're carrying a camera , GPS-capable phone , etc. . Also , stay well away from any remote place with especially luxurious houses / " dachas " that appear to be well-guarded . 5 ) Some nature reserves have areas that are forbidden to enter ( or forbidden to enter without a special permit ) for reasons of nature conservation . These are usually marked . With all that said , seeing the little remote villages of " real Russia " can be very fun and rewarding !
You can use any exchange rate service , but they like it if you use <URL> because they get trained on that one for T1 and T2 applications . Since Sterling is taking a caning right now , you would do a little better by picking today 's closing rate , 70p to the dollar and use it for all your evidence going back 3 to 6 months . For Naira that would be 35p per 100 Naira They are not going to make a big deal about it as long as you do n't go cherry picking through historical rates . The rate is not as important for visitor applications as it is for PBS and settlement applications . For representation , you can use the remarks section and add a statement like ... A Sterling conversion rate of xxxx has been used . This was the closing rate on xx/xx/xx per the internet Oanda service .
There is no formal distinction between visas for tourism or business purposes in the Schengen countries . There 's just a single kind of visa : uniform type C short-stay visas , with a single application process . In the visa application , you have to explain why you 're going , but you wo n't be held responsible for classifying the application into rigid " tourism " and " business " categories . Sure enough there are checkboxes for " purpose of travel " in the standard application form , but that 's just for convenience and ease of processing , so that straightforward tourists or business travelers wo n't have to word an explanation of their own -- not because the answer there selects between different sets of rules . You can always enclose a more detailed free-form explanation to clarify your answer .
Official documents can be found on the <URL> . In fact , there is no such thing as a " tourist " Schengen visa , the main distinction is between a short-stay ( no more than 90 days in a 180-day period ) visa and long-stay ( national ) visas . But you must always specify the purpose of your journey on the application form . The standard application form ( annex 1 of the <URL> ) includes a " Study " checkbox and both the visa code and the <URL> also discuss at length the type of supporting documentation that must be provided in this case . In particular : for journeys undertaken for the purposes of study or other types of training : ( a ) a certificate of enrolment at an educational establishment for the purposes of attending vocational or theoretical courses within the framework of basic and further training ; ( b ) student cards or certificates of the courses to be attended ; All that should be enough to establish that studying or taking classes on a short-stay Schengen visa is officially allowed and completely above board . Now , if you pretend to be a tourist and submit a complete itinerary while the real goal of your trip in fact is to attend a course , it could be grounds to refuse the visa ( if caught , obviously ) . Of course , the short duration of stay ( even compared to the UK 's six-month general visitor visa ) severely limits the type of classes you could possibly attend .
The day after I used one of the travel agencies to get the visa in Bangkok for 2200 Bath , I met someone who told me about the new Myanmar consulate in Chiang Mai . I went there the next day and you can get the standard 28 day tourist visa for 800 Bath ( 3 days ) or 1600 Bath ( one day ) . None of the five travel agencies I inquired at told me about this , either because they did n't know , or they simply did n't want to tell me , because they would lose my business . I had looked online at the official Myanmar government site and wikitravel.org and found no mention of the consulate . It was opened in July 2015 and is located near the north-west corner of the old city at :
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
No , you ca n't . They 're different types of adapters . What I do when I need confirmation is to check this website : <URL> It has an EXHAUSTIVE list of each and every type , the voltage and the countries that use them . It 's been handy for some of the stranger countries I 've been to and has n't failed yet . Myself , I have a multi-adapter . The only country it does n't seem to handle is South Africa , which has 3 giant prongs - bigger than the UK ones !
end question
start question
Can I get from Gatwick airport to London by Oyster card ?
You can get an Oyster card from the airport . However , it 's not available on the trains yet . You 'll have to buy a ticket at the station ( there are machines on your right as you walk into the train station at the airport ) . If you want to go to Monument , you 'll only have to change once , and you wo n't need to buy a new ticket . Buy a ticket at Gatwick to Monument - it 'll be a Day Single ticket . Catch the train to London Bridge , and once there , go down to the tube station ( you 'll see signs , so many signs ) and get the Northern Line northbound on platform 1 to Bank . Bank and Monument are interlinked . From there you can walk to Old Billingsgate . However , if you prefer a scenic walk - and it probably wo n't take you any longer and will save you some cash , as you can see <URL> , London Bridge station is pretty close . If you buy a ticket there , you can exit the station and follow the signs to London Bridge , and walk across London Bridge . As you do so , look to your right and you 'll see the famous Tower Bridge as well as the Tower of London . It 's a pretty great walk .
Get the 4am Southern train service from London Victoria , gets you into Gatwick at 4.46 am There 's also a 4.30 am Gatwick Express that 'll get you in at just gone 5am , but tickets are bit more on that . See <URL> for examples for tomorrow ( well , that URL will always work for the coming Tuesday , but the site has a search ! ) ( There 's also the option to stay in Brighton , and get the <URL> to Gatwick , but you 'll probably find London both easier to get to and cheaper to stay in , even if it lacks a beach ! )
The end of most major bus lines from Santiago is in Puerto Montt , from there people usually take the <URL> ferry to go further south , for example to Puerto Natales where there is another road . This is not a short ferry , more a cruise ship and takes four days . The other option is to go to Chiloé island which is south-west of Puerto Montt , There are several buses a day ( <URL> ) to Quellon , the southernmost city on Chiloe . Again there is a ferry involved to get to the island , but the ferry ride is much shorter and I think you stay on the bus .
This Havataş bus appears to be new ( it 's certainly new to me ) , so I ca n't comment on their service . Istanbul 's public transit does not run regularly at night but the buses to Atatürk Airport are fortunately one of the exceptions . If you use the clunky ( in terms of interface and translation ) İETT <URL> website , you 'll find that there is a public transit option involving a change of bus that will get you to Yenikapı on time : You can only search on exact strings with correct accents so " Ataturk " and " Yenikapi " wo n't give you any results . The trip as quoted by the website will cost you four bus tickets which you 'll have to find , unless the bus drivers accepts cash ( technically they do n't sell tickets on the bus , but most drivers will actually do so by carrying electronic tickets which they sell privately ) . You might want to look into whether the 03:30 96T from does n't just continue through directly to as I expect it does , or if the 96T from at 05:36 did n't start at the airport . If nothing else , you 'll save yourself 2 bus tickets and an hour and a half sitting outside a mosque ( cami = mosque ) at night . Whatever you do make sure you have a backup plan because you ca n't trust the İETT website ! Keep an eye out for the Havataş bus since it 'll leave from the same place as the city buses ( but do n't get on the similarly-named Havaş bus ! ) . You should also be ready to abandon the whole public transit idea for a taxi at if you start running into problems . It 's not actually that far , so it wo n't run up too much of a fare .
You can travel on most public transportation in London with your Oyster Card - Bus , Tube , tram , DLR ( Docklands Light Railway ) , London Overground , and Thames Clipper boats . You can even use it on the Emirates Air Line . The Oyster Card gives you a wide area of travel . The Tube has 9 zones . As long as you start and finish your journey within these 9 zones , you can use your Oyster Card . You can find more information here : <URL> You mentioned Paddington - You can not use your Oyster Card on the Heathrow Express which travels between Paddington and Heathrow Airport . But , you can easily use it at Paddington on the Tube ( Bakerloo , Circle , District , and Hammersmith &amp; City lines ) . Starting in September 2015 , you can easily touch in and touch out on the Thames Clipper boats with your Oyster Card to pay for your river travel . This makes travel on the river Thames easy . Here is a map of the routes it takes : <URL>
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
TFL Website Have you tried <URL> ? Bus Maps by City Area It allows you to download PDF 's with bus maps by city area ( <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> ) . Interactive Maps You can also view maps interactively from the site . Zoom in to view the bus stops , click on the bus stop you need , and zoom out to see the bus routes . Below is a screenshot for the routes passing via Trafalgar Square stop ' T ' : <URL> Bus Spider Maps Finally , the website allows you to <URL> . You can search for the individual bus line , or by borough . Below is what <URL> looks like : <URL>
Porter is currently an unfashionable beer style , as far as the mainstream goes , so in the larger ' chain ' pubs you 'd be unlikely to find one . However , that 's not to say there 's none to be found ! Your first step is to find the right kind of pub , for which there are many resources available ; the best physical one I would say would be CAMRA 's Good Beer Guide ( bookshops everywhere ) . Online your search terms would be ' real ale ' , ' craft beer ' , and of course ' london pub ' . Here are some specific resources which should help : <URL> - general pub reviews <URL> - pub reviews with an ale-drinking preference <URL> - but without the commentary that the book itself provides . Finally , you could always cheat and look in <URL> - not as good as the real thing , but consistently a decent pint . Finally finally , if you 're in East London I would personally urge you to try something by the <URL> - they do n't currently do a straight porter , but their mild is worth a special trip , to my mind .
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
If you arrive at Terminal 1 on a through ticket , or have checked your luggage to final destination , or are travelling with hand luggage only , you should be able to do an airside transfer from terminal 1 . Terminal 5 is only for security checks for departing passengers and after passing security , all airside facilities actually exist at Terminal 3 , including departure gates , shops and airline lounges . This is the relevant information for <URL> . Note that there is no mention of Terminal 5 since the departures will be from the Terminal 3 G &amp; H gates . Here is a <URL> on Flyertalk which sounds similar to your situation , i.e. arriving on a domestic Alitalia flight and transferring to a flight to the USA . If you do need to collect luggage at Terminal 1 , you would exit landside and take relatively short walk to Terminal 3 , although there are additional shuttle buses that circulate from the long term parking areas to the terminals that you could take from Terminal 1 to Terminal 3 if walking is a problem .
If you do n't have your own transport , your mobility will be very limited . It still makes sense to avoid Kandahar , for safety reasons , though you do speak Persian ( it appears ) , which will make you blend in more . So , your most sensible route would be Herat - > Mazar - > Baghlan - > Tajikistan . You could head down from Baghlan to Kabul and back to visit Kabul . It 's a bit of a detour and requires your own vehicle , really , but Bamyan is very much worth it .
I phoned TfL to find the answer to this . It 's simple and straightforward : The rate depends on when you touch in . Peak fares apply from 06:30 to 09:29 and from 16:00 to 18:59 Monday to Friday ( excluding public holidays ) . Off-peak fares apply at all other times . That is , if you touch in during those two three-hour periods , you will be charged the peak fare . If your journey starts in off-peak time but strays into the peak period , it 's still an off-peak fare .
I have been on a few flixbus journeys within Germany and the rule I follow to get the best prices is to book as early as possible . They quite often run/ran promotions and you do run a risk of missing out on those but unless they are scheduled or you can really expect them the risk of rising prices is higher IMHO . Also as the German long distance bus market is consolidating I do expect less such promotions at least there . E.g. in Italy where flixbus has also entered the market I observed similar but am generally aware of less promotions . You will not get a better price by haggling with the driver at departure but he can sell you a ticket if seats are still available . Also do note that flixbus is not the only such enterprise , but certainly the market leader at least in Germany . To get a comparison ( including trains and shared rides in the default settings ) check out <URL> for Germany ( I know it works well for Germany but they seem to have expanded and I 'd also trust them for European connections by now , their English website is called BusRadar ) or <URL> .
Having arrived at Malta airport February 1 , 2016 , there was a booth ( I think towards the right hand side from Arrivals ) where I was able to purchase a Tallinja card for $ 21 for 7-days . The booth also accepts Amex cards . This covers the whole of Malta and Gozo ( Għawdex ) . Whether or not this can be topped-up I 'm not sure . <URL>
I see you 've already found Perama , which is the largest cruise/ferry operator around Lombok , and they 're quoting Rp 1.3 million for a deck fare , which sounds about right ( ~ US$ 110 ) . There are other operators , but I doubt you 're going to find anything substantially cheaper , and if you do it 'll be cheap for a reason ( <URL> ) . Even Perama is <URL> , but hey , Indonesia ' gitulah , it 's either that or fly and Merpati is n't much better . What you can do , though , is negotiate your own package where you just combine the dates/bits you 're interested in -- since there are 4 to 6 of you , you 'll have a fair amount of bargaining power . I would n't even bother trying to sort this out beforehand , just show up at the Perama shop in Labuanbajo and see what they can do .
The website I prefer for UK train timetables is <URL> . One of it 's handy features is being able to look up the last train of the day , for example <URL> . As Roflcoptr pointed out , the last weekday train at the moment is the 22:35 , which gets you into Cambridge at 01:22 ( via a cross London transfer to Kings Cross ) . You might just be able to get away with the 22:50 from Gatwick , if you have n't got too much luggage . The 22:50 gets into London Victoria at 23:20 , which gives you 40 minutes to get down to the tube , wait for a tube , travel 5 stops , and get up to the station . Fine if there are no problems and you 're not too bad for luggage , but ca n't be guaranteed ... Otherwise , it 's a National Express coach to London , then change onto a different National Express coach to Cambridge . The website for looking up times and prices is <URL> . Does n't look good though , leaving Gatwick at 23:40 today wo n't get you to Cambridge until about 5am ...
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
<URL> . The first one departs from the Belarusian capital at 7:45 a.m. and returns at 18:10 . The second train from Minsk to Vilnius leaves at 18-50 , and comes back at 6:05 . What happens , in most border crossings by train is that there 's a stop on either side of the border , often at an 'em pty ' station . Border guards get on the train , and check your paperwork , as well as issuing you with any other paperwork you may need for entry into Lithuania . Then you carry on to the other side of the border , where a similar process repeats itself . I would suspect that it 's done in Godagai , 10km pre-border , but do n't worry - they 'll explain it , or just make it happen . Neither country is going to let a train-load of passengers cross the border without checking/issuing paperwork ! Sometimes , as in the case when travelling between Poland and the Ukraine , the rail guage is different , so they do the passport stuff while lifting the train and changing the wheels . It 's a very interesting experience . I have n't done that border crossing , but I 've been between Poland and Lithuania , and <URL> , if that 's of any assistance .
Tackling the London-Manchester bit , <URL> runs regular services on this route . If you book in advance , tickets should be under # 20 each way . There are several fast trains an hour , and it takes about 2 hours for the trip . You can get timetables and book tickets on the virgin trains website ( amongst others ) One note about UK advanced train tickets - tickets generally go on sale 3 months in advance . The very cheapest tickets will often sell out that week , but you can normally get some fairly sensibly priced ones for several weeks after . ( There are normally advanced tickets at a couple of different price points for most journeys ) . Finding out exactly when tickets are on sale to does vary in difficulty , <URL> as an example display their booking dates on their homepage , others do n't . Another snag is that tickets are n't released until engineering work is announced . This may mean that weekend tickets go on sale later than weekday ones , and some companies will have their weekend tickets available weeks before others ! Advanced purchase train tickets are almost always for a specific train , and non changeable . They are generally only available on longer journeys , but you can sometimes get a local journey at each end included ( depending on the company ) . I think almost all the train companies offer them , but advanced tickets are generally tied to just that one company . This means that if you want to do a journey that involves two companies , you 'll often need to book two advanced tickets ... Finally , if you 're booking fairly last minute , expect things to be rather expensive , especially on popular routes . If you 're booking on the day / almost on the day , you may be able to save a little bit by taking a slower train . Ask at the ticket office about that , and they 'll tell you if it 's possible . Another option that may be available is <URL> , where you find that splitting your long journey up into lots of local legs can be cheaper ! Oh , and if you 're travelling off peak and with a child , then get a Family Railcard . There 's an annual fee , but you 'll generally save that on any single long journey . You ca n't start too early , and you must have at least one child in the group , but for family leisure journeys it can save a lot .
During the strike there is restricted timetable - so you maybe have to wait longer , but you can get to Mainz by train . Take S8 or RB/RE to Mainz Main Station ( Mainz Hauptbahnhof ) . According to <URL> S8 will run every hour . Another option would be to get a ride . Check <URL> or <URL> - there are few rides from Frankfurt Airport to Mainz .
end question
start question
Where is the Saarland-Ticket valid ?
According to <URL> the Saarland - and Rheinland-Pfalz-Ticket have the same validity : practically all regional routes inside the Saarland and Rhineland-Palatinate , as well as a few into neighbouring states . The PDF lists all routes where the ticket is valid .
Not really . There used to be one with American Airlines . There 's a reason they ca n't do it though , and it 's people like <URL> . He 'd fly to another country just for lunch , because he could . In today 's air travel climate , you need to make some money on each seat , it 's getting harder and harder to do with the competitive industry that it is . Jetblue tried it in 2009 . <URL> . At least , that was the answer a year or so ago . Suddenly , a couple of incidents have changed this . <URL> . There are lots of conditions , however . And now just two months ago <URL> is attempting to be a startup offering unlimited flights for $ 1500 a month plus free checked bags precheck and wifi . However , if you 're a semi-frequent business flyer you could clock that up pretty fast , so it 'll be interesting to see how long they last . However , aside from these occasional anomalies , there 's really no such thing any longer . It 's too expensive , and too risky for the airlines to do , aside from perhaps as a promotional ( short-lived ) endeavour .
Well , you have nailed it pretty well because Saarland is the smallest non-city state in Germany and there are not many lakes . Bostalsee in 66625 Nohfelden . Very nice lake with several smaller lakes in vicinity . Stausee Losheim in 66679 Losheim am See . River quality has improved so much that bathing and swimming should be no problem , even in the Saar . Bathing in rivers is <URL> , but there are exceptions : Forbidden is bathing in vicinity ( less than 100 m ) of a construction : a bridge , a weir or a lock . Also forbidden ( trespassing ) is bathing if you enter private ground or use a private road . While very beautiful , bathing in nature reserves ( Naturschutzgebiet ) is forbidden . Look for this signs because the roads are often free : Be careful that you choose locations with weak currents and no high banks . Look out for river traffic because shipping is used extensively in Germany .
The <URL> that you cite describes getting from Baku to Alat but it is not too hard to backtrack : from Alat port take a minibus / taxi to the bus stop from there take bus 195 to Baku Looking at google maps , <URL> seems to be the Alat port to me . You are looking for transportation from the port to the bus stop where the 195 will take you to Baku . Google directions public transport feat does have the stops of that bus ( and also the schedule ) and the nearest one to the port ( and most logical for minibuses etc. ) seems to be <URL> . Driving distance between the port and the bus stop should be some 3km or 10 mins ( maps is missing a street there so these are my guesses ) . <URL> : A taxi to/from Baku should cost around AZN30 . Alternatively take bus 195 ( 80q ) : after passing through Baș Ələt , get off by the big roundabout , from where waiting taxis charge AZN5 for the last 3km .
My opinion is that a Paris Visite pass is hardly worth the money . If that 's true in your case is difficult to answer . Basically , you have to use the public transport quite heavily . The price of single metro ticket is 1.70 EUR and if you buy tickets by a batch of 10 ( " carnet " ) , the price goes down to 1.33 EUR per ticket . With that information in mind , take the Paris Visite pass you are interested in ( 1 , 2,3 or 5 days ) , and calculate how often you would be able to take the public transport on regular tickets , ot how many <URL> you would have to use . Example . A 2 day pass is 15.85 EUR . For a bit less than that , 15 EUR , you can buy 11 regular tickets ( 1 carnet and 1 single ticket ) . That 's a lot for two days , especially if you plan your sightseeing a bit rationally . And do n't let yourself fool by the discounts . Some are more sexy , some other are less sexy . Check precisely what the discounts are good for , check the prices . And check if you are interested in these at all ! Plan your sightseeing first , i.e. make a list of what your are interested in and see if that 's covered by the pass . Do n't do it the other way round . You might miss a lot !
It looks like that page I quoted on is at least out of date , and probably just outright wrong . I asked the person at the desk at my guesthouse and it seems <URL> and <URL> are right that it ca n't be done directly in Siem Reap . The guesthouse quoted me a price above $ 60 taking four days by sending it off to Phnom Penh . I think I 'll head for the capital tomorrow and try to get the extension on Monday at the office in the airport .
Presuming that the " M " in your current license refers to the fact you are licensed to ride a motorcycle in the US , then your US license will be good for up to 3 months duration in Costa Rica . If you do not have a motorcycle license in your home country , then you are only legally allowed to ride scooters up to 50cc . If you are going to be in the country for more than 90 days you will need to get a local license , which presuming you already have a motorcycle license in another country is just a matter of some paperwork ( ie , no riding test/etc ) . You can drive a motorcycle up to 250 cc with a normal license .
Here 's a <URL> about it , including a pointer to the location on <URL> . As you can see , it 's hard to find and there 's barely anything there aside from a few overgrown stone walls . The last couple of photos are of a shrine along the way , not the ruins .
According to Wikipedia , the <URL> is ignited at Olympia , Greece , from the action of the Sun . No <URL> seems to exist at this site .
Even if flexible return tickets are more expensive , it could be cheaper than two One-Way tickets , due to the way how airlines calculate their OW fares . You could also try to get a good fare which is not completely restricted ( e.g. changing the date for a fee like 100 $ ) , which could still be cheaper than flexible ones , even if you add the fee .
An e-mail to Kahlúa asking about tours was answered with : Thanks for your email and your interest in Kahlúa . Unfortunately we do n't currently offer a tour of the Kahlúa facilities . If you have any further questions , please do n't hesitate to ask . Best regards Martin
It 's bureaucratic and complicated . ( It 's India ! ) Each of the sites has a ticket , plus there 's also a levy , and you need to pay both to get in . Each ticket is valid for one entry to that site only , and seems to be standardized at Rs 250 per site . The levy varies in value between Rs 10 and 500 , but if you pay the maximum levy for the Taj Mahal , it 's valid everywhere else as well for the same day only . Examples : You visit the Taj Mahal in the morning and Agra Fort in the afternoon . You need to pay Rs 250 for the Taj Mahal ticket , Rs 250 for the Agra Fort ticket , and Rs 500 for the combined levy , for a total of 1000 rupees . You visit the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort on separate days . Like case 1 , you still need to pay Rs 750 for the Taj ticket and its levy plus Rs 250 for the Agra Fort , but since your levy only covers one day you now need to fork out additional 50 rupees for the Agra Fort 's levy , total 1050 rupees . Rendered insane by heatstroke , you decide to skip the Taj Mahal and only visit the Fort and Fatehpur Sikri . You pay Rs 250 each for tickets plus levies of Rs 50 and Rs 10 respectively , a total of 560 rupees .
Travelling to the UK without nailing down an onward journey is a poor idea . Some background ... Having an entry clearance basically implies that you have successfully completed your landing interview before you even arrived in the UK . <URL> makes this clear ... An entry clearance which satisfies the requirements set out in article 3 of the Immigration ( Leave to Enter and Remain ) Order 2000 will have effect as leave to enter the United Kingdom . The requirements are that the entry clearance must specify the purpose for which the holder wishes to enter the United Kingdom and should be endorsed with the conditions to which it is subject or wish a statement that it has effect as indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom . The holder of such an entry clearance will not require leave to enter on arrival in the United Kingdom and , for the purposes of these Rules , will be treated as a person who has arrived in the United Kingdom with leave to enter the United Kingdom which is in force but which was given to him before his arrival . It means they already know you and all your details and you have been " cleared " to enter the UK without further ado . So your landing interview will be shorter and more structured than for say , Americans . HOWEVER , they need to check your documents for forgeries and alterations ; and they are entitled to ask about your plans for this particular visit ( if they want to ) . Evidence of an onward journey is also important . While a return ticket is no guarantee that a passenger will leave the UK , a single ticket will often trigger further questions . If passengers have a return ticket that is open , or dated after the time they claim to be leaving the country , this casts doubt on their true intentions . Source : Home Office Report : <URL> What they are saying is that if they want to see your onward journey and you do not have one , you will be in trouble , despite having an entry clearance . In the current era and public mood , it means your entry clearance will be cancelled and the IO will issue removal instructions . It is not a guaranteed outcome , nothing is guaranteed where an IO 's discretionary latitude is concerned , but it is playing with fire , ill-advised , and wildly adventurous . For completeness , I have to mention that it 's avoidable if you are known as a <URL> ( HNWI ) or a known public figure or if your passport is wallpapered with previous entry clearances etc etc. . In those cases the odds are improved .
Get an Oyster Card or Use Your Contactless Payment Card If you plan on travelling a total of two journeys in two days then you wo n't need a 2-day travel ticket ( nor 2 day travel cards ) as that would be to expressive , as well as overkill . The simplest option would be to get two one way tickets covering the zones you need . These will definitely be cheaper than daily tickets . Having said this , your best bet is to get an <URL> , or even use your contactless payment card . Doing so you 'll get the cheapest possible rates for your travels , and your maximum expenditure will be capped to the same value as that of a day travel card covering the zones you transited . Indeed , <URL> : Only here for a short visit ? If you are only making one or two journeys when visiting London , pay as you go is the best option if you already have a contactless payment or Oyster card . If you do n't have one of these , you could consider getting an Oyster card which you can use whenever you visit London . Alternatively , you could buy single tickets , a Day Travelcard or a One Day Bus &amp; Tram Pass although these are all more expensive than using pay as you go . <URL> , by asking at the manned ticket counter . For more information <URL> , in terms of fares and usage . How About Buses ? When it comes to buses however , note that recently <URL> . This means that you can still purchase a single journey on a bus , but you 'll have to use your payment card . You can of course use your contactless card to take advantage of the reduced oyster fares . The other obvious options is to purchase an oyster card and use that to pay for the bus .
This is <URL> in Schwangau , Germany . For more information about the castle and how to visit it , here is the <URL> . Photo from <URL>
You must arrive within 6 hours . The ticket expires 6 hours after validation and if your ticket is checked on the train more than 6 hours from validation , you will be subject to a fine . You may get on and get off multiple times and use the same ticket . The validity of the Cinque Terre train ticket is specifically designed to allow you to visit multiple or all towns on the one ticket . <URL> Tickets are good for 5 , 10 and 20 kilometers , you have to validate them at the yellow machines in the station before you start your journey . They are valid for 6 hours . 10 km tickets are all you need for the 5 villages . Tickets will be checked on the train ! The trains run till about 11:30 pm And a single ticket exists which allows you to visit all of the Cinque Terre . <URL> An alternative for those who decide not to walk and want only to move by train would be to buy a round trip ticket Sestri Levante - Riomaggiore at a cost of $ 4.00 per person each way ( always with the regional trains ) , this ticket has a validity of 6 hours from the validation time and you can stop about 1 hour in every village . This solution is certainly the most economically advantageous but it seems that the Park intends to force all visitors to the <URL> , in this case we will inform you in time !
The main bar area is along Via de ' Benci / Via Giuseppe Verdi , and some of the side streets . There are lots of different kinds of bars and some clubs there , <URL> ( Ponte alle Grazie ) <URL> , maybe 500 m north . See the map , just like the hostel guy drew it : <URL> The map I got from the hostel , with main bar area marked on the right-hand side It was quite busy , although I 'd expect it to be really busy in summer . There may be " lesser " bar areas too , e.g. across the river <URL> ( also marked on the map ) . And someone mentioned that some ( fancier ? ) nightclubs are located quite far in the suburbs , a taxi ride away . I did n't try those . Also , there 's <URL> on piazza S. Maria Novella , closer to the central station .
<URL> What Is Not Covered By Rome Travel Passes For buses , you can only use the Rome travel passes on the city buses . You can not use them on the Rome hop on , hop off sightseeing buses or the airport buses to either of Rome 's airports . On the trains the entire Metro system is covered and local services in the city of Rome district are also covered . The travel passes do not cover any of the trains to Fiumicino Airport , the main airport for Rome , this includes the Leonardo Express train running non-stop between Fiumicino Airport and Rome 's Termini Station . You can not use the travel passes on the trains to and from Rome 's cruise port , Civitavecchia , which is a long way outside Rome . Some more information on this from <URL> The CIS will work on the FR1 ( FM1 ) . It is the same price as the 2 zone CIRS . However , the CIS may not be valid all the way to the Airport , in which case you will need the regional pass , a 3-zone CIRS which is 7 euros more . And . . For an ' official ' confirmation The Roma Pass website has a PDF which shows that the limit to the FR1 train is two stations before the FCO station . CONNECTIONS TO AND FROM AIRPORTS ( Leonardo Express train , FR1 train , local urban services ) ARE NOT INCLUDED IN THE TWO CARDS . <URL>
The procedure in this case is that you apply for a 46 day visa . It is then up to the consulate whether they ( a ) reject your application , ( b ) issue a 46 day visa , or ( c ) issue multiple-entry 90-days-presence-out-of-X-days-validity visa . It is not under your control whether ( b ) or ( c ) happens . It is not uncommon that frequent travelers who have a history of sticking to the rules are issued visa with a long validity without asking for them in order to allow them to be more flexible . However , the consulate should normally not issue visa that covers less than the period that you apply for . So you could apply for the full 90 days . Doing so does increases the probability of visa refusal , however - especially if you ca n't provide them with a good reason for what you need the 90 days for . So the rule of thumb is : Just apply for what you need and be happy about it if you get more validity than you need . However , do n't apply for more than you need , as it increases the risk of a visa refusal . Note that it arrival and departure are 45 days apart , you actually need a 46 day visa as partial days spent in the Schengen area count fully .
<URL> Even if you become ineligible to apply for one , if you had it , you do n't lose it . " Valid for work only with DHS authorization " indicates that having a social security card is n't in itself proof that you are entitled to work in the US . For example , you might still have a valid social security card after your work visa has expired , or you might have been issued a social security card without being allowed to work in the US .
end question
start question
Do I need a visa to transit ( or layover ) in the Schengen area ?
It 's sometimes difficult to find the right information but everything is somewhere <URL> . Wikipedia <URL> . Some embassies or government websites from the various Schengen countries also provide useful summaries . Legally , the main source for all this is the <URL> . Here is a step-by-step guide through the rules to decide if you need a visa : 1 . Can you enter the Schengen area ? If you can enter the Schengen area , you can also transit there . You can enter the Schengen area if you are an EU citizen , hold a Schengen visa , a long-stay visa or residence permit from one of the Schengen countries or come from a country whose citizens do n't need a visa to visit the Schengen area . If any of these apply , you can stop here , you do n't need a visa . If none of these apply , read further . The list of countries whose citizens do n't need a visa to enter the Schengen area can be found on <URL> . They are also colored green on <URL> . 2 . Can you transfer without leaving the international area of the airport ? Many airports in Europe have an international area with transfer/check-in counters , waiting area , sometimes lounges , restaurants , shops <URL> before the border checkpoint where the police check the passports of passengers entering the Schengen area . Gates for non-Schengen destinations can be accessed from this area , whereas domestic and Schengen-bound flights depart from other parts of the airport . Whether you can transit without leaving this area will depend on your specific connection ( airport/terminal , airline , time ) . For example , <URL> , so that it 's not possible to remain in the international area for an overnight transfer . Luggage belts are typically after the passport check so if your luggage can not be checked through to a destination outside of the Schengen area , you will also have a problem . Finally , as passengers ' passports do n't have to be checked on flights within the Schengen area , if you have two stopovers in the Schengen area ( for example Mumbai-Vienna-Frankfurt-Chicago or Nairobi-Zurich-Frankfurt-Chișinău ) , you will have to leave the international area and go through the border checkpoint to catch your intra-Schengen flight . Same thing if you need to change airports . If you have to leave the international area to make your transfer , you can not transit without a visa and you need a full Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . If you can stay in the international area ( " transit airside " ) , read further . 3 . Do citizens of your country require a visa to transit airside ? If you have come so far , it means you come from a country whose citizens require a visa to enter the Schengen area . But there is still a distinction between two categories of countries among them . While most people can transit airside without a visa , citizens of a smaller list of countries need an " airport transit visa " even if they do n't want to go through the border checkpoint and enter the Schengen area . Where things get complicated is that the list of countries whose citizens need an airport transit visa is slightly different from one Schengen country to the other . There is a list for the whole Schengen area ( <URL> , dark red/burgundy on the <URL> ) but individual Schengen member states can also add countries to the list . They have to inform the Commission , which keeps a list of all these requirements ( <URL> , see also the same Wikipedia article ) . If your country is not on either of these lists , stop here , you do n't need a visa . On the other hand , if your country is on one of the lists ( the general Europe-wide list or the one from the country where you are going to transit ) , you might need an " airport transit visa " but read further as there are some exceptions . 4 . Are there other rules that could allow you to transit without a visa ? If your transfer requires an airport transit visa , there might still be a way to transit without a visa as the Schengen Visa code provides for a number of exceptions for people who hold some other visas or residence permits . Note that those exceptions only apply to the airport transit visa requirement . If you need to enter the Schengen area ( see question 2 ) , these exceptions do not apply . Specifically , you are exempted from the airport transit visa requirement if you hold a valid visa from an EU country ( that 's the whole EU , not only the Schengen area so also Ireland , the UK , Cyprus , Bulgaria , Romania , and Croatia ) , Canada , Japan or the <URL> . You are also exempted if you have a residence permit from one of these countries or from Andorra or San Marino . If that 's your case , you are exempted even if you are not traveling to this country . If you hold such a visa or residence permit , you can transit without a visa , no matter your citizenship or your destination . If you do n't , you will need a visa . Furthermore , if you just used the visa ( so that it 's not valid anymore but expired recently ) , you can still transit without a visa in the Schengen area for the return trip . This rule does not fit
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
For Laos , <URL> , valid for up to 60 days . Cambodia you <URL> , valid for 90 days . However , in both cases , while they 're valid for 60 and 90 days respectively , this is just the period after application during which you enter , and you can only actually stay in each country for 30 days , or when you leave , whichever is sooner . So if you leave Cambodia to Laos , you 'll need ANOTHER Cambodian visa to return . The official price for a tourist visa for Cambodia is US$ 20 , and US$ 25 for an Ordinary visa - but expect much higher prices ( US$ 30 or more for the tourist visa ) to be demanded at land border crossings . Visas can be obtained at any Cambodian embassy or consulate overseas . Visas are also available " on arrival " at both international airports , all six international border crossings with Thailand , some international border crossings with Vietnam , and at the main border crossing with Laos . Now we start getting clever . Instead of a tourist visa , you <URL> , as you can configure them for multiple entries , meaning you wo n't have to apply for two separate visas for Cambodia . For Laos , most countries can get a visa on arrival at the airport , but not sure about land crossings . Only price I can find there is $ 42 for Canadians <URL> . Hopefully some of that info and the links are useful !
In the Schengen area , the relevant distinction is between flights to non-Schengen destinations and flights to Schengen destinations . If you have two stops in the area , your journey includes a flight between Schengen destinations and you will need to go through the " external border " checkpoint to catch that flight . There will be no passport check at the second airport and once you have crossed the border at the first airport , there is nothing stopping you from leaving , which is why transit privileges do not apply . Whether the next destination is in the same country or in another Schengen country does not make a difference and your UK visa and all the other rules and regulations regarding transit are not relevant in this situation either . As an Indian citizen , it means that you do need a type C Schengen visa ( and not merely an " airport transit visa " ) . See also <URL> for a full explanation of the rules .
Normally , you do n't need to mail your passport right away . They first process your online application , and then request your passport only when/if you 're approved-in-principle . You would then send it to <URL> ( or there may be visa processing centres throughout Brasil , I 'm not sure ) . Disclaimer : I 've only dealt with Russia , the process for Brasil may be different , you should read the rules online . As for how long it takes : I only have experience with the Moscow office , but I had a great experience with it . I 've seen two applications where the visa was approved in 4 working days ( that 's 4 days until they sent the passport request , plus the mailing time of the passport back and forth of course ) , even though the official waiting time is something like 45 days . But of course , apply as early as possible .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
I do n't think they would issue a new overlapping visa . Since it 's all one trip , you should in principle have applied to one consulate with documentation covering the stay in both countries . Since you already have that visa , I am not sure what your options are now . One possibility could be to have Spanish visa revoked and start a new application but that sounds like a lot of hassle . If you do get a new visa , traveling on two visas is not a problem and you would n't need to leave the area , see <URL>
You have several choices : You currently have subway from the airport which will make life easier . But still , depending on the time you arrive to Lisbon and how old the kids are I would or not risk go downtown . The subway can be very crowded at rush hour . If you have a stroller I would only consider it if it 's not rush hour . People are kind and will almost for sure help , but it can be painful and you have to change at least once . Options Go to " <URL> " . It 's not a historically iconic part of the city but it 's 3 subway stations away from the airport . It ´ s a new and nice area , built specially for Expo 98 , with lot 's of gardens , Ocenario , a cable car , several restaurants , near to Tagus river . You can either walk a bit , use the cable car and enjoy the scenary or just relax in one of the gardens or a cafe . You can go to " Parque das Nações " and visit <URL> ( <URL> ) . It 's worth it and kids love it . ( Ocenário is the biggest aquarium in Europe and the second in the World ) . Go downtown ( Option 1 ) . It 's a bit more tricky . You have change once between subway lines and it will take you aprox 30 min . You can get out in Rossio and walk to Terreiro do Paço . There you will be able to see the castle ( in the Hill ) , see Lisbon architecture and urbanism ( this area was built by Marques de Pombal , after the 1775 earthquake ) . Go dowtown ( option 2 ) . Get out in Rossio and find " <URL> " You get the tram here and go up the hill . When you arrive you will be near " <URL> " one of the typical neighbourhoods of Lisbon and " <URL> " with a <URL> over Lisbon and to the Castle . Go downtown ( option 3 ) . Instead of going to to Rossio go do " Marquês " by subway ( again , it will take you aprox 30 min . to arrive ) . From there you can walk down " Avenida da Liberdade " to Rossio . If you look back when starting , you will see the beautifull " <URL> " . Avenida da Liberdade is considered one of the most luxurious avenues in the world . When arriving to Rossio do n't forget to drink the :) world famous " <URL> " . Near by you can find " <URL> " , currently an association and a restaurant . Before a Palace . You can go in a see the architecture . It 's a very beautifull and unexpected place ( nice for a quick visit ) . If you just want to relax a bit and get away from the aiport you can do it also in " <URL> " . It 's easy to arrive by subway and you can do a bit of tourism sitted in a garden bench . It has a playground with swings for kids . It 's not an amazing " must visit " area . It 's just nice to relax for a while and it has its part of history . Alameda was built during " <URL> " when there was a dictatorship in Portugal . In one side you can see " fonte luminosa " an imponent fountain ( recently repaired ) . In the other side there is " Técnico " one of the best portuguese universities . There is also a Theater in the middle called " Império " ( Empire - iconic name , like the architecture of the fountain , to show Portugal a great country - regime propaganda ) . Currently " Imperio " is a church from " Igreja Universal do Reino de Deus " . These are all built with the same kind of architecture . ( Note : if you want to eat , I would advise you to visit " Cervejaria Imperio " under the Theater . It used to have one of the best stakes of Lisbon . It 's not what it used to be but it 's still a very nice place to go and not expensive if you have the buffet lunch . ) Another alternative may be going to " <URL> " It 's a small farm in the city with several farm animals ( horses , donkeys , sheep , chickens , etc ) specially made for kids . They often have activities like baking bread , etc. ( but you have to enroll for these ) . It 's a nice place , it 's free ( you can just walk in ) and it 's near the airport ( you can get there by <URL> also , it 's 4 stations away from the airport ) . It 's usually open from 10h to 19h except monday ( closed ) . Additional Resources <URL> of the Lisbon subway system . You can easily find the metioned stations above . For a quick reference : Aeroporto in the red line is the airport station . Baixa-chiado or Rossio gives you direct access down-town . Terreiro do Passo also leaves you downtown and near the river .
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
Why yes there is . <URL> . You enter your nationality , destination , and any visas you already hold , and it will tell you if you need a transit visa or not . It also includes instructions for applying for one . HOWEVER : There have been changes taking effect Dec 1 2014 to which countries ' nationals require transit visas . Regardless of the link above , <URL> . Procedures remain the same . Beware that the exemption conditions for visa-less landside transit are slightly different from the exceptions for Direct Airside Transit . As of this writing , the page linked above erroneously refers to a document describing the landside exemptions even from its section about DATV ; refer to the <URL> for the actual DATV exemptions . As a summary ( but check for exceptions ) : You must arrive and depart by air , and your outbound flight must be booked and confirmed . You do n't need a transit visa if you would not need a visa for a tourist visit to the UK . A transit visa comes in two forms : Direct Airside Transit Visa ( DATV ) which is limited to 24 hours and you must remain ' airside ' ( i.e. can not pass through immigration ) and a Visitor in Transit Visa , which is valid for 48 hours and allows you to change terminals or airports . You must have all the necessary documentation for your final destination , including any visas . You are exempt from needing a transit visa under certain conditions . These can be found at <URL> . As of 25 June 2015 , the conditions are : You might be eligible for ' transit without visa ' if : you arrive and depart by air [ you ] have a confirmed onward flight that leaves on the day you arrive or before midnight on the day after you arrive [ you ] have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : you 're travelling to ( or on part of a reasonable journey to ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and it 's less than 6 months since you last entered that country with a valid entry visa you have a residence permit issued by Australia or New Zealand you have a common format residence permit issued by an European Economic Area ( EEA ) country or Switzerland you have a residence permit issued by Canada issued after 28 June 2002 you have a uniform format category D visa for entry to a country in the EEA or Switzerland you have an Irish biometric visa and an onward flight ticket to the Republic of Ireland you 're travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it 's less than 3 months since you were last given permission , on the basis of holding a valid Irish biometric visa , to land or be in Ireland you have a valid USA permanent residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 you have a valid USA I-551 Temporary Immigrant visa issued by the USA ( a wet-ink stamp version will not be accepted ) you have an expired USA I-551 Permanent Residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 , with a valid I-797 letter authorising extension you have a valid standalone US Immigration Form 155A/155B issued by the USA ( attached to a sealed brown envelope ) You wo n't be able to transit without a visa if a Border Force officer decides you do n't qualify under the immigration rules . You can <URL> before you travel if you 're unsure whether you qualify for transiting without a visa . If you need more information than is provided by this website you will need to check with your airline or <URL> . The Home Office 's <URL> also provides some guidance on the subtler points of the rules ( it 's intended for professionals , not passengers , but does explain in great details when a visa is or is not required ) . Changes to the rules activating on 1 December 2014 A Statutory Instrument entitled " The Immigration ( Passenger Transit Visa ) Order 2014 " will make large portions of the above text obsolete . Please refer to the instrument itself at <URL> until further guidance becomes available . The government 's interactive page , which leads the user through a series of questions will take some time to sync up with the legislation ( if ever ) and should NOT be relied upon after the 2014 order takes effect . Note on UK Border Control In London Heathrow , if you fly from outside the UK or Ireland and leave to another country ( neither UK nor Ireland ) , it is possible to transit without entering the UK and going through UK Border Control , you can stay airside . There is no hotel airside , so <URL> , you have to go through UK Border Control . There is a <URL> available on Heathrow airport website . Update 25 July 2015 : Visa Seniority People on any kind of valid UK visa that is senior to a transit visa do not need an additional visa . It means the person ca
You do n't need a transit visa as a Nicaraguan transiting Shanghai Pudong en route to Taipei : / 14APR16 / 1550 UTC National Nicaragua ( NI ) Transit China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) Destination Chinese Taipei ( TW ) China ( People 's Rep. ) ( CN ) TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Visa required , except for Holders of confirmed onward airline tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours Source : <URL> The same holds for travel in the opposite direction : <URL>
There is a <URL> to check if you need a transit visa or not . This is from the <URL> website : If you are coming to the UK briefly as part of your journey to another country , you will generally need to obtain a UK visa before you travel . If you will arrive on a flight , remain in the arrival lounge of the airport without through immigration control , and then depart on another flight from the same airport , you should apply for a direct airside transit visa . If you will arrive in the UK , pass through immigration control and then leave the UK within 48 hours , you should apply for a visitor in transit visa . If you will spend more than 48 hours in the UK , you must obtain another type of visitor visa before you travel . The Visiting the UK section lists the types of visitor visa . In some circumstances you may be exempt from the need to obtain a visa - this is called the ' transit without visa concession ' . The Transiting the UK section contains more information , and explains how to apply for a transit visa . India is not on the <URL> that need a transit visa for Ireland . EDIT : I was just informed by a friend that if you hold a US visa you are except from a transit visa if the USA is your point of origin or destination . I checked the UK border agency site and saw no mention if it . If anyone can confirm this , that would be handy .
Yes , it 's possible , because , as of June 2015 , Romania is not ( yet ) part of the Schengen area ( they almost certainly wo n't be in the next few months but they are supposed to join some time in the future ) . It 's best to have a short layover and to book the whole trip at once to make sure you wo n't have to collect your luggage in Frankfurt but sterile transit is otherwise not a problem , even at night . Incidentally , you probably already figured out that your US visa exempts you from the airside transit visa requirement in Germany but your Romanian visa would also be enough so you have not only one but two ways to qualify for this exemption !
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
Okay , while all the answers here were awesome , I got mixed responses . So I ended up contacting the US Consulate in Lilongwe , Malawi . Here was their response : Entry visas for U.S. travelers are available upon arrival in Malawi at both of the international airports , Lilongwe and Blantyre , as well as at border crossings . You will have to complete a one-page visa application form and pay the USD $ 75 ( U.S. dollars only ) but it 's fairly routine at this point . I 'm copying our official announcement below for your reference . <URL>
A towel is required . And it has to be large enough . You are supposed to sit or to lie on it . One towel can be enough . However , a second towel and/or a bathrobe can be useful too , when you are relaxing outside the sauna . In most of the saunas you can rent towels and bathrobes . If 80x60 refer to centimeters , than it 's not enough . You have to fit on the towel , as shown here : However , sitting like this wo n't be accepted . You will then be kindly reminded to put your feet on the towel :
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
<URL> All non-exempt citizens must obtain a visa prior to travelling to South Korea . In your case <URL> : <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What Australian dishes - Aboriginal or otherwise - made of kangaroo meat should I not miss ?
Oh have I got the page for you ... <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
The circumstances that require a new ESTA are listed <URL> and include only : passport change name change gender change citizenship change something happens ( e.g. criminal conviction , overstay ) that might cause the loss of the VWP privilege and require you to get a visa instead . Otherwise the ESTA you applied for is good for 2 years regardless of how other information you included in the application changes .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
You will have to go through passport control as you are exiting the Schengen zone . This in and of itself can easily soak up the 1:40 that you have available to you . Not to mention the time it takes to cover the distance from gates A - > Terminal Lobby - > Passport Control - > C - > Gate 15 Now the good news is that everyone at the airport will know which flights are departing and you will most likely be put on a priority queue if there is a long line at immigration ( this is really , your only real cause of concern ) . Your luggage will be transferred automatically , as you are on one ticket . Personally , 1:40 is a bit tight for my liking - but as the airline has booked you the itinerary , it is their responsibility to make sure you reach your destination . Lets assume the worse case scenario that your flight is delayed in-bound , and there is a long queue at immigration , and by the time you clear all that and find your way to the gate , the flight has departed . Before any of that happens though : You 'll notice people running around yelling the flight number and destination of your flight . You 'll see someone that is minding the queue at immigration , and they will be calling for people with flights close to departure . Your name may be called as well . Once the flight has departed : a. Lufthansa will arrange to put you on the next available flight . b. Depending on how long the delay is to your next flight ; you may be provided compensation . So , the worse that will happen is that you will be bumped to a later flight along with some compensation .
Both of them will be ok . However , on my opinion , I would prefer type C , because it has more flexibility in using . Also type C can be used in a lot of countries . If you travel a lot it 's a big advantage . More information you may find here : <URL>
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
This is going to vary strongly from carrier to carrier because as far as I can tell what really matters is how long it 's been since the interiors were refurbished ( a process airlines do one plane model at a time ) and whether the route is considered important by the airline . Sure , you can make some overall opinions about narrowbody ( one aisle ) vs widebody ( two aisles ) but not much else . Power , inflight entertainment , and even just the upholstery are all going to matter as much as layout . If I was travelling alone on AirCanada , I would go with the 330 because two of the three banks of rows have no " middle seat " . If I was travelling as a family of three , that same difference would cause me to reject the 330 . I guess maybe a family of four would prefer the 330 since you could get two rows of two and have two windows and a little family cluster . However I 'm only 5 ' 4 " and my shortness is all in my legs , so a 31 " pitch does n't scare me . It might be more of an issue for you .
Mark 's answer is right , I just want to add some useful references for you . If you are in Russia , you can use the map engine from biggest Russian search provider , Yandex : <URL> ( <URL> ) . They works perfectly on mobile , so this is quite useful for you . They are similar to GoogleMaps , but are much more detailed for Russian cities . For example , Yekaterinburg : <URL> Another reason to use such engine is an easy search for anything you need in travel : <URL> Blue dots are small hotels , blue circles are medium hotels , purple circles are paid advertisers , I think . Green letters are metro-stations so you can easily get to any hotel you need : <URL> If you interested in some mobile application similar to Maps.Yandex , I recommend you <URL> . It can get your location and show interesting places around you . I works even without Internet connection , so sometimes is very useful : <URL>
It 's hard to agree with Mhche 's answer here . Unless you have a very limited number of places you want to visit and are just going to take a few trips to the larger towns or villages along the coast , I would strongly advice against using public transport . Even if the buses travel fairly regularly through the " suburbs " of Rhodes City and to some extent down the east coast , at least to Lindos and Gennadi , the time tables for the villages on the west coast and in the interior parts of the island are very sparse . From Monolithos , there is e.g. just one bus in the morning going to Rhodes City and another bus in the late afternoon going from Rhodes and back , of course only Mo-Fr . This is the case for several other villages as well , if they have a bus connection at all . At least between Rhodes City and Lindos , the main road on the east coast is not particularly close to the coast . If you want to go the beaches or see any of the spots along the coast , expect to leave the bus at the main road and walk the rest . Bus tickets are more expensive than the 3 euros mentioned by Mhche . Travelling from Rhodes City , expect to pay about 5 $ to Lindos or 10 $ to the south of the island . Taxis are also rather expensive on Rhodes . A taxi from Rhodes City to Lindos will cost about 60 $ , to the southern parts of the island expect to pay more than 100 $ . Unless ordered and agreed upon in advance , do n't expect to find available taxis " on command " in the rural parts of the island . Do n't expect the bus drivers to speak English . The traffic is not that bad on Rhodes , so alternatives to renting a car could be to rent a bike or moped . With some luck , you may get a bike for 5 $ / day and a moped for 10 $ / day . But even the coastal roads can be quite hilly , so do n't underestimate riding a bike in the warm Rhodes weather :)
There have been several studies looking into health risks associated with air travel , though often , it 's the pilots who are the focus of the investigation . A large European study , <URL> , finds in accordance with others that there is a higher incidence of skin cancer in cockpit crews . This has also been observed for cabin crews . However , they do not find a dose-response , i.e. they can not demonstrate that flying more increases skin cancer risk , which is what you 'd expect if it was radiation exposure during the flight that was causing cancer . Consequently , it is quite possible that it 's higher exposure to UV light in their time off work that puts cockpit and cabin crews at a higher risk for skin cancer compared to the rest of the population . In other words <URL> is overly sensationalist . Interestingly , mortality from several other causes is lower in cockpit crews , possibly due to selection effects , i.e. you need to be fit and healthy to get the job , and you make sufficent money to afford good health care : Our study confirms the marked cardiovascular mortality reduction of cockpit crew as compared to the general population . Obviously only very healthy persons are recruited into the profession , and continuous medical supervision may play a role in controlling cardiovascular risk factors . Analyses of mortality by age show that low mortality persists even after retirement . As seen in ESCAPE [ = the name of the study ] subcohorts and independent studies published previously , aircraft accidents , whether private or occupational cause a substantial proportion of deaths especially among younger cockpit crew . Pilots in early phases of their flight career seem to carry the highest risk of accidental death in aviation . Mortality from motor vehicle and other accidents was low . In summary , there may be a higher risk of skin ( and , apparently , breast ) cancer , though staying away from tanning studios and the beach in your spare time possibly alleviates that . What about non-fatal health risks ? Several potential issues come to mind : Exposure to pathogens , stress , and high noise levels . Exposure to pathogens is of course a concern in an enclosed space , and there are reports of infections spreading on planes <URL> . When levels of <URL> and <URL> have been measured , it was found that they were highest during on/off boarding , when passengers were moving around and when AC was running on anciliary power . In other words , AC on modern aircraft is doing a good job of filtering the air . Coincidentially , there has been a case study reporting rapid spread of the flu when the AC was out of order ( see the above-linked pdf ) . In sum : Wash your hands frequently , do n't exchange bodily fluid with passengers , and you should do fine , as long as the ventilation system is running . Stress is a risk factor associated with many physical and mental health related problems . There are indeed stress symptoms , such as fatigue , headache , concentration difficulties , or gastrointestinal problems reported in <URL> , though they do not compare stress level/symptoms to the general population . Anyway , not surprisingly , stress levels are lower the higher up on the ladder you are in the hierarchy . Also , the social network helps a lot to mitigate effects of stress . In sum : be the boss , and relax with friends and family , and you 'll do fine . Noise could also be a problem - it is loud on the airplane due to the engine noise . <URL> , on probably the same Swedish airline as above , reports no ill effects of noise exposure , however . Overall , it appears that even chronic air travel leads to little long-term damage . Have a good flight ! If you want to keep up-to-date on research done in the US regarding health risks for flight crews , you can check out <URL> .
Books are heavier , period . Your typical cheap-ass perfect-bound B&amp;W 300-page airport paperback detective/romance novel <URL> . A nice hardback or a big chunky guidebook will be more : <URL> is over 1 kg , and a 500-page ream of A4 printing paper is well over 2 kg ! A T-shirt occupies roughly the same volume as that paperback , but even a nice heavy cotton <URL> will only top the scales around 250 grams . ( Note that T-shirt weights are per square meter , and you need > 1.5 m2 for a short-sleeved shirt . ) Now I 'm sure you can construct a pathological case where a suitcase stuffed full of steel-toed Doc Martens and studded denim weighs more than a suitcase filled with the airiest pulp novels known to man , but in general , if you 're looking to lose weight , chuck the books first -- and get e-books instead . <URL> are also a surprisingly cheap way of shipping printed material around the planet .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
When I do n't know where to go , I decide based on what kind of holiday I am looking for , listing requirements and then marking them against the country . What questions are relevant to you will depend on the type of holiday you are looking for , but probably the basic things to consider are : weather , season , relaxation , structures/accomodations , activities to do , beaches , sea/coral barrier , food , language . For example , when looking for an exotic place to go on honeymoon , if you are going in the summer then most exotic places have a rainy season , so you may want to consider a place where you will be able to do other things even if there is rain . For examples the <URL> is one of the most gorgeous places to go , but there is nothing apart from sand , sea and relaxation ; therefore if it 's raining you 'll ruin the holiday . In that case a place like <URL> would be a good compromise , as it has good-looking beaches but also plenty of activities . I agree that Google is always a good source of information to shortlist , then forums can help you decide at the end .
It 's quite common for none of the validation machines to be working . Officially , you must seek out the train conductor immediately upon boarding and have your ticket validated . It is n't sufficient to write on the ticket yourself . Source : <URL> Convalida - I biglietti devono essere convalidati prima della partenza del treno utilizzato nella località d’inizio del viaggio mediante le validatrici . In caso di mancanza o non funzionamento di tutte le validatrici di stazione il viaggiatore deve richiedere la convalida dei biglietti presso la biglietteria oppure , in caso di mancanza o chiusura di biglietteria , deve rivolgersi di propria iniziativa al personale di bordo all ' atto della salita in treno . The official wording says that you 're really only allowed to do this if the machines are missing or not working and the ticket office was closed or missing too , since you should 've attempted to get the ticket validated at the ticket office if the machines are broken .
Traveling is a personal experience and the things you will need really depend on what you want to do . If you are going on holiday where you will be doing a bunch of things , I will pack all the necessary things I need at home and not worry too much about my trip . To cut to the chase , here 's my list of essentials : Shades or sunglasses , do n't forget them . If you are a swimmer or just to want to make yourself wet in a pool , have a pair of your swimming clothes and goggles . A laptop , assuming you do n't want to escape the rat race . Condoms , assuming you are married and want to have sex with your partner without the risk of making her pregnant . A towel , good to have when you are lying somewhere on a beach . Novels or books in general . Will help you enjoy long flights where passengers setting next to you are as grumpy as Donald Trump . Do some research on what to read and what 's new . It all depends on your interest . ( I carry my Kindle all the time ) . A flashlight . Good to have when you are out on a beach at night , or travel to an unknown land where you need to find your way around in the dark . Cash in local currency . And make sure you have some singles . You can do this after you land in your destination . Research the place before you travel . With that , you are making sure about what to do and where to go . Travel documents . Make sure you have them on you at all times . Shit happens , and you never know when . Have both the two and three pin plug adapters for your computer or electronic devices . A multi-adapter might be even better . Make sure you have your chargers in your handbag or backpack . Your credit card . Inform your bank that you are traveling so that they do n't block your card when they see a charge from a place in a far away land . At least that 's what I need to do in the US . A pen and paper . Training clothes and shoes . Most hotels will not let you use their facility in flip-flops . Last but not least , a nice backpack .
It has an impact , but it is n't problematic . The Sabbath runs from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown , though in practice it could extend from Friday afternoon to Sunday morning . In planning your trip , it is much like planning in other countries where shops are closed on Sundays or museums are only open on certain days . The key thing is to plan your time carefully around these limitations . From our trip to Israel , I was probably most surprised by the fairly large Arab population . Since their holy day is on Friday , their shops are open on Saturday during the Sabbath and the Jewish shops are open on Friday when the Arab shops are closed . At least in the places we visited , there was always something that was open . I think the most problematic aspect of the Sabbath in our trip planning was public transport . However , we ended up renting a car , so it was n't a concern for us .
I ca n't see your video so I 'm not quite sure what you mean by " hidden fees " , but maybe <URL> would be a helpful starting point . Regarding baggage fees specifically , <URL> lets you include these when comparing flight prices . After performing a search , click " Show Toolbox " at the top of the left navigation bar , then " Add Baggage " and input the number of checked bags .
If you have a choice without any other considerations ( i.e. similar price , time etc. ) , DCA is much closer to the center of the city than IAD . About 10 minutes versus 45 minutes driving ( may vary with traffic ) . DCA is , however , a domestic airport . If you are flying in from abroad ( as you say you are ) , you will be connecting somewhere else in the US to end at DCA . Conversely , IAD has direct flights from many international hubs . Ultimately , I do n't think the choice of DC airport matters all that much for an international traveler . Yes , you save a bit of time using DCA in terms of getting to/from the airport . But , the overall itinerary ( including layovers and price ) is likely to be a much greater factor in your decision . Indeed , to get the best itinerary/price you may also want to consider Baltimore-Washington International Airport ( BWI ) . It is a bit further away than IAD ( 50-55 min drive ) , but if you can get a more direct or cheaper flight there , it may be a good option for you . So , my advice , check out flights to all 3 DC airports . Consider the overall price and the total travel time ( including connections and travel from the airport ) and choose the best flight overall . I doubt the 30-45 minutes that DCA saves you on the ground will be the deciding factor . Update in response to edit Both airports have shuttles . They are privately operated in both cases . DCA is also connected to the DC metro . To take the metro from IAD requires a shuttle bus to the end of the line . Prices going from DCA may be lower than from IAD ( depending on which mode of transport you choose ) . SuperShuttle ( a shared ride shuttle service ) charges 29 USD dollars from either airport to the city center . To reiterate , if you have a choice between two travel itineraries that are otherwise identical in terms of price and travel duration , choose DCA . It is closer , saving you time . You have the option of using the metro . And just getting a taxi wont be an overly expensive option .
Better for What ? Which school is better ? This is a query which has been keeping us awake at night since the concept of " teaching " was first concocted . The answer is obviously : there is no point is asking yourself , or others , which is the best school , without first deciding the criteria on which to base such a qualitative and , more importantly , subjective judgement . The word " best " per se has no meaning . Teaching and Training Styles The only criteria that really matters in my opinion is the teaching method . After all , an effective teaching method that suits one 's forma mentis and abilities is paramount for effective learning . When it comes to diving schools , the teaching method is intrinsically linked with the target demographics . So the question then becomes : what are you looking to get out of diving ? Is this going to be a one-off experience ? Do you just want to give it a try ? Are you doing this purely for seasonal leisure , i.e. something once every so often when you are by the seaside ? Or do you plan on making diving your primary hobby ? Turns out diving is such a complex , and somewhat unnatural activity , that there 's probably no way of knowing before trying . You might argue that this is true for most unknown things in life . However underwater breathing is something that humans are n't meant to do , and thus diving carries an inherent psychological stress , which is unique to it . There is no way to know how you will react to the regulated breathing , the water above you , the abyss below you , the depth , the potential claustrophobia , before trying . PADI Didactics Why do I mention the demographics ? In my opinion the objective of PADI has always been to get as many people as possible to scuba dive for fun . This is achieved by initiating divers with ( very ) short Open Water courses which , upon completion , allow you to dive up to a depth of 18m accompanied by a Divemaster or higher . Short means that it is not uncommon to knock out the full course , including theory , confined and open water practice , in three days during a week long stay in a holiday camp . This raises the question on how much understanding , and mastery , one might gain in such a short time . Then again , the PADI Open Water is aimed at the aforementioned seasonal leisure divers , which will most probably always dive with clubs in tourist villages , on simple fish-watching shallow dives . Nothing wrong with that . Local Federations Other diving schools and federations , on the other hand , target enthusiasts who wish to learn diving to gain competence over the discipline . These are people who might think of turning diving into their main year-round hobby . BSAC is an example of such a school . CMAS is another . The former is the main British scuba association . The latter is a confederation of local diving schools across the world , which abide by the same regulations and teaching syllabi . The objective of these schools is in my opinion to form qualified competent divers , rather than to get everyone in the water as fast as possible . For completeness sake , I am a CMAS 3 * diver and BSAC Assistant Instructor . I have also tried the PADI system indirectly by assisting during an Advanced course . So yes I speak from personal experience and might indeed be biased . Compare Syllabi Having said this , you will most probably find the syllabi of the various Open Water comparable courses across different schools , as well as the mutual equivalences and recognition between them . These should already give you an indication of the amount of learning and dedication required to complete the course . This in turn is representative of the quality of the courses , in terms of competence levels and goals . I remember learning the mechanics and physics inside the workings of a regulator during my CMAS 1 * ( first level ) course . I do not recall reading about it on the PADI Open Water manual . Whether this knowledge is useful to a first level diver is all up to you -- the student -- and it depends on where your interest in diving comes from . BSAC Equivalences <URL> mentions the equivalence between PADI and BSAC certifications : For example -- divers transferring from PADI : PADI Open Water or Advanced Open Water Similar to : BSAC Ocean Diver Progress to : BSAC Sports Diver PADI Rescue Diver Similar to : Sports Diver Progress to : Dive Leader <URL> is the full document in PDF . <URL> has a more comprehensive breakdown of equivalences between diving agencies . Remember to contact your club for more precise information . My Personal Opinion Finally , any answer to this question will carry a heavy opinion-based component . So here is mine . I have trained in Italy and France with CMAS . All my CMAS instructors made me feel safe . They were competent and looked like they were in control of everything . And that 's the most important thing in my opinion when doing something potentially life-threatening . I found BSAC a bit too pedantic in their breaking-everything-into-baby-steps
Indonesia uses European-style two-pin round plugs ( ' C ' - type is the most common variant found ) : Voltage is at 220 V 50 Hz ( as opposed to 110 V 60 Hz in US ) . Most modern electronic equipment that has auto-sensing capability should work without needing a voltage converter , you will need a plug adapter though which can buy cheap online . As for Apple products specifically have a look at <URL> .
end question
start question
What is the reciprocity fee for US citizens entering Argentina ?
The reciprocity fee is currently US$ 160 for US citizens , and can now be paid online in advance via the website <URL> . There is a PDF guide on paying the fee <URL> ( The entire guide is in English except for the country name of the US , which is in Spanish - " Estados Unidos " ) Not surprisingly , this matches the fee the US charges for non-immigrant visa applications , which is currently <URL> - that 's why it 's called a " reciprocity fee " .
In order to avoid overstaying you 'll have to clear border control exit checks before 23:59:59 on the last visa validity day . It might make sense to arrive ( very ) early in the airport in order to make the cutoff time . However the problem is that border control checkpoints are usually located after airport security checks . So the question really becomes : <URL> The access to security checks is likely to be regulated by flight departure time . So is check-in , although you can always do that online and be alright if you do n't have any hold-luggage to drop off . Keep in mind that you 'll need a boarding pass to be allowed through security . I could n't find any definite answer on the topic , and some forum posts seem to say that this is airport dependent . Personally I would call the airport and ask , not mentioning the overstaying issue but rather saying for example that you have an early departure and do n't want to sleep in a hotel . I would also turn up at the airport and try my luck anyway . As a final note make sure you make it through security checks at a reasonable time , i.e. one that is compatible with the opening hours of border controls . Indeed these might not be manned 24h , so you want to make sure that you arrive at the right time .
Yes you need a visa to enter Turkey , according to <URL> United States of America : Ordinary and official passport holders are required to have visa to enter Turkey . They can obtain three month-multiple entry visas from Turkish diplomatic representations abroad and also via the website <URL> . Please note , no more visa stickers on border crossings , you have to obtain the e-visa in advance : As of April 17 , 2013 , electronic visa ( e-Visa ) replaces " sticker visa " which was issued at the border crossings . Applicants just need to log on to www.evisa.gov.tr , provide the requested information , ( after the application is approved ) make online payment and download their e-Visa . The e-visa is easy to obtain and takes 24 hours to be issued , as mentioned in the <URL> page : Your e-Visa will be e-mailed to you within 24 hours after completion of your application . Note : The e-Visa 's introduced in 2013 are now becoming mandatory . Sticker visas will not be available at border crossings beginning April 10th , 2014 . If you needed a visa before , you must now obtain it in advance . This includes US citizens . There are even more restrictions on arrival for many other countries .
Here is the list for airports equipped with Automated Passport Control ( APC ) to serve ESTA holders in addition to US and Canadian passports holders , from the <URL> as of now : Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport ( ATL ) Austin-Bergstrom International Airport ( AUS ) Boston Logan International Airport ( BOS ) Charlotte Douglas International Airport ( CLT ) Chicago Midway International Airport ( MDW ) Chicago O’Hare International Airport ( ORD ) Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport ( DFW ) Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport ( DTW ) Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport ( FLL ) Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport ( IAH ) Los Angeles International Airport ( LAX ) Miami International Airport ( MIA ) Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport ( MSP ) Montréal - Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport ( YUL ) New York - John F. Kennedy International Airport ( JFK ) Newark Liberty International Airport ( EWR ) Orlando International Airport ( MCO ) Philadelphia International Airport ( PHL ) Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport ( PHX ) Seattle Sea-Tac Airport ( SEA ) Tampa International Airport ( TPA ) Toronto Pearson International Airport ( YYZ ) Vancouver International Airport ( YVR )
From Tbilisi to Baku you can go via <URL> . It goes every day , so there is no problem with that . From Baku you can get to Aktau ( Kazakhstan ) via <URL> . People who used this ferry are saying it has no stable schedule , so you can <URL> : ( 99412 ) 493-19-63 ( 99412 ) 498-10-13 Also you can go to <URL> , if you want - it much closer , but I ca n't find info about transit visa for Turkmenistan . From Aktau you can get to <URL> <URL> . From there you can pass to one of the main border crossing points <URL> by <URL> ( and even to <URL> by <URL> , since in Almaty there is a Chinese embassy ) . Ürümqi is a large rail point in North China , but the only two points to cross the China-Mongolia border is <URL> and <URL> , so you need get a train to one of these points .
What Is the US Visa Waiver Program ? The <URL> allows travellers of certain nationalities to visit the US for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . This is a bilateral agreement , meaning that all countries participating in the VWP must allow US citizens to visit for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . To date <URL> : Andorra ( 1991 ) Australia ( 1996 ) Austria ( 1991 ) Belgium ( 1991 ) Brunei ( 1993 ) Chile ( 2014 ) Czech Republic ( 2008 ) Denmark ( 1991 ) Estonia ( 2008 ) Finland ( 1991 ) France ( 1989 ) Germany ( 1989 ) Greece ( 2010 ) Hungary ( 2008 ) Iceland ( 1991 ) Ireland ( 1995 ) Italy ( 1989 ) Japan ( 1988 ) Korea , Republic of ( 2008 ) Latvia ( 2008 ) Liechtenstein ( 1991 ) Lithuania ( 2008 ) Luxembourg ( 1991 ) Malta ( 2008 ) Monaco ( 1991 ) Netherlands ( 1989 ) New Zealand ( 1991 ) Norway ( 1991 ) Portugal ( 1999 ) San Marino ( 1991 ) Singapore ( 1999 ) Slovakia ( 2008 ) Slovenia ( 1997 ) Spain ( 1991 ) Sweden ( 1989 ) Switzerland ( 1989 ) Taiwan ( 2012 ) United Kingdom ** ( 1988 ) Passport Requirements Travellers wishing to benefit from the VWP must have a machine readable <URL> with a digital photograph printed on the document . All countries participating in the VWP must , and do , issue these passports to their citizens . If you do n't have an e-Passport to date , you 'll have to apply for one . What Is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? The <URL> is a fully automated process which allows visitors to verify if they are eligible to travel to the US under the VWP . The ESTA is not a visa . The ESTA is not a guarantee that visitors will be admitted entry to the US . Obtaining an ESTA simply means that the applicant meets <URL> . Namely : Who You Are : You are a citizen or eligible national of a Visa Waiver Program country . You are currently not in possession of a visitor 's visa . Your travel is for 90 days or less . You plan to travel to the United States for business or pleasure . You want to apply for a new authorization for one person or a group of applications for two or more persons . <URL> : Q : What is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? A : The Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) is an automated system that assists in determining eligibility to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and whether such travel poses any law enforcement or security risk . Upon completion of an ESTA application , a traveler is notified of his or her eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP . Who Needs to Apply for ESTA ? <URL> Travellers who normally would require a visa to enter the US should apply for a visa and not for an ESTA . Travellers who are eligible to visit the US under the VWP must obtain an ESTA prior to travelling to the US . This includes travellers who will only transit in the US on their way to somewhere else . Quoting from <URL> : Q : Who is required to apply for ESTA ? A : All eligible nationals or citizens of VWP countries who plan to travel to the United States for temporary business or pleasure under VWP are required to receive an authorization through ESTA prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or vessel . The term " United States " refers to the continental United States , Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands of the United States , and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands . Accompanied and unaccompanied children , regardless of age , are also required to obtain an independent ESTA approval . A third party , such as a relative or travel agent , is permitted to submit an ESTA application on behalf of a VWP traveler . Q : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require an ESTA if they are only transiting the United States en route to another country ? A : Yes . Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require either an ESTA or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the ESTA application , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination in the address lines under the heading " Address While In The United States . " <URL> An ESTA is required only for travellers seeking entry by air or sea . How Long Is my ESTA Valid For ? Once approved , an ESTA is valid for two years , and can be used multiple times , provided the reason for the multiple visits to the US remains within the scope of the VWP : business or tourism . If the applicant 's passport has less than two years validity left , the ESTA expires when the passport expires . My ESTA Expires Halfway into my Trip in the US <URL> It does not need to be valid for the entire duration of stay in the US . Therefore , there is no need for a traveller to apply for a new ESTA if their existing one expires whilst they are visiti
You should not rely on US Government to act on this in 2014 . It is far more likely that if it will happen in 2014 it will be late in the year and it might be better to apply and get a B visa instead of waiting for VWP to happen . There is a recommendation by the <URL> to the Santiago embassy to : Informal Recommendation 20 : Embassy Santiago should conduct a broad validation study of its B visa applicants in accordance with Bureau of Consular Affairs guidelines and prepare an analysis of the results as part of its new officer training , fraud prevention effort , and visa waiver evaluation process . And while this document is dated February 2013 given the inertia that US government has in implementation of changes I do n't expect this to take less then at least 1 year , so as of right now there is no published effective date on Chile joining the VWP . NEW INFORMATION As found on the <URL> a few minutes ago dated February 28 , 2014 : WASHINGTON -- Today , Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson , joined by Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources Heather Higginbottom , Chilean Foreign Minister Alfredo Moreno and Chilean Ambassador Felipe Bulnes , announced the designation of Chile into the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) -- streamlining travel for thousands of eligible Chilean passport holders , while maintaining strong security standards . Starting May 1 , 2014 , eligible Chilean passport holders with both an approved Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) and an e-passport will be able to visit the United States without nonimmigrant visitor visas . So for the End of 2014 you should now be able to enter US under an ESTA .
Well until some time in 2014 Australians were still granted 360 day visas on arrival . However at the last election there was a change of government and the new government eventually changed the visa regime to a " 90/180 " type where visitors who qualify are now granted permission to stay for ninety days out of any 180 day period . Much like Schengen , Turkey , etc. .
Yes there are . There are several bus lines that I could find online though I could only find 1 that provides cross border routes : <URL> If you look at their schedule you will find that they have a bus from <URL> and a connecting bus from Punta Arenas to Puerto Natales though I ca n't find the trip duration so it is possible that you may have to spend the night at Puerto Natales .
Not being a lawyer and being myself a citizen from a Schengen and EU member state , I do n't have any direct experience with this kind of issues so that everything I will say should be taken with a grain of salt . Still , I am wondering if it makes any difference in practice ( and , incidentally , how frequently this could really happen ) . It seems that a long stay visa from one of the member states of the Schengen agreement ( which is not a Schengen visa as the Schengen agreement only covers short stays and each member state remains mostly free to establish rules governing long stay visas as they see fit ) gives you the same rights , in other member states , as a " uniform visa " ( i.e. multiple entries in the Schengen area for a maximum of 90 days stay in any half-year ) . This <URL> seems to support this interpretation . According to this webpage , what you have to do to be able to enter France again after 5 months is to go back to the country that delivered the long stay visa ( i.e. Germany in your example ) , just as an " uniform visa " would require you to go back to a non-Schengen country to avoid using up your 90 days quota . One thing I do n't know is how you can go about documenting the fact that you did leave France if you travel by road instead of taking a connecting flight since there are no border controls between France and Germany . That 's the main practical difference with the uniform visa situation as external Schengen borders are guarded and you would get an exit stamp on your passport but the 90 days rule applies in both cases . ( You mentioned France as an example and I looked it up in French but I believe those rules were defined in some EU directives so they should apply for other Schengen countries as well . ) Most importantly , a long stay visa from Germany ( or any other Schengen country ) does not entitle you to stay in France ( or any other Schengen country ) for as long as you wish ( i.e. Germany can not deliver long stay visas for France or vice versa ) so that in both cases you are really using your right to make a short stay in France . Only after 5 years of residence in Germany , will you in fact be entitled to a long stay visa in France ( actually a " titre de séjour " , this is not a visa but a separate document ) but this has nothing to do with Schengen , this is a EU rule that does not apply to non-EU Schengen countries ( and also not to the UK , Ireland and Denmark , despite their being EU members because they opted out , see <URL> ) . It probably also applies to Switzerland via their bilateral agreements with the EU but I am not quite sure . I suspect that having this right recognized might not always be trivial in practice . Additionally , I understand that there are complex rules regarding airside transit . Depending on your nationality , you might be entitled to visa-free transit in international airports of some or all Schengen area countries , so technically needing a visa to stay in the Schengen area does not automatically imply requiring a visa in your scenario .
The decision whether and for how long is made <URL> : At the port-of-entry , a U.S. immigration officer of the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) decides whether to allow you to enter and how long you can stay for any particular visit , as part of the Admission process . Only the U.S. immigration officer has the authority to permit you to enter the United States . Six months is the normal maximum but this may be extended <URL> . Leaving USA terminates the validity of the visa , where that is single entry , or utilises one of the allowed entries where multiple entry . Returning from the EU ( after Christmas ) is a further entry , the duration of which is again up to the immigration officer -- and might be six months .
Actually it 's not a tax , it 's a regular service fee . The information you are requesting can be found on the company website ( in Spanish ) : <URL> The service charge is 3 CUC ( + - 3 USD ) per day The minimal duration of a contract is 3 days You need to pay all the daily fees in advance for the period you will be using the line . Phone calls are paid independently You also need to add funds to your account for a minimum of 10 CUC ( + - 10 USD ) No internet service ( there is data roaming if you bring a phone from another country , but this is VERY expensive ) Additionally , there are wifi hotspots in most hotels and <URL> , there is an access fee of 2 CUC per hour that should be paid in advance .
There is a question exactly like yours on <URL> . The gist of the answers is : Noone cares . Taxis do n't have car seats to offer and you 're not required to have them to travel with kids , so your wife holding your 3 month old will be just fine . Normally most countries ( and states ) exempt taxis from child safety seat requirements . <URL> <URL>
As noted elsewhere , you can not take the price of a single itinerary on a single route on a single date and make conclusions about rail travel on a single service compared to rail travel on an entire continent . Even if you could , it would not hold . I tried some bookings for 27 February at 0800 . Amtrak 's Acela Express would be $ 78 . SNCF quotes me 70 EUR ( ~ 96 USD ) for Paris to Brussels , DB quotes me 59 EUR ( ~ 81 USD ) for Hamburg to Berlin , and a Hikari train on the Tokaido Shinkansen from Shizuoka to Shinagawa is 6,180 JPY ( ~ 61 USD ) . But on a short trip like this , there is no reason to take the Acela , as the Northeast Regional is almost as fast , and would only cost $ 36 . But Amtrak costs what it does fundamentally because the price of transportation depends on supply and demand . While the balance can be distorted by things like subsidies , the constraints on both explain why a flight from DC to New York costs as much as a flight from DC to Los Angeles , even though it is only one-tenth the distance . And in this respect , Amtrak remains broadly competitive with other modes of transportation along the NEC . Ten years ago I never took Amtrak ; why would I when I could get from Downtown DC to Midtown Manhattan , door to door , within 3 hours , for $ 116 round trip on the Shuttle ? Nowadays , with more rigorous airport security , capacity reductions , higher fuel prices , and transit service cuts among things , I would allot at least 4 1/2 hours and $ 340 . To drive would also take 4-5 hours , and entail almost $ 60 in tolls and $ 50 in gasoline , plus the stress of driving I-95 and the New Jersey Turnpike and then finding parking . So Amtrak offering me a round trip for $ 260 is compelling . ( yes , there is the bus as well , but it 's as uncomfortable as the plane and as slow as Amtrak and as dangerous as driving , so naturally you should expect a discount . ) And while Amtrak does not practice price discrimination as ruthlessly as the airlines do , this may partly explain why your NLC-BOS ticket seems overpriced : they do n't want someone riding NLC-BOS if they can sell the same seat for more profit to a NYP-BOS passenger .
I spent a few months in South America , starting in Buenos Aires with limited Spanish skills . I found it hard , trying to use my broken Spanish . I then asked my brother who had been there a few months earlier how he managed , as he had zero Spanish knowledge . " I just spoke English " was his reply . Granted , he mainly did the big tourist spots - Buenos Aires , Iguazu etc , but it shows you do n't have to have any Spanish to get by . I was merely struggling because I was trying to speak Spanish , but in many of the main tourist spots , hostels , bus stations there 's always someone willing to help - if not a local , another traveller :-) Short answer : you 'll be fine , and will learn more Spanish as you go . You quickly work out what few words are really important , and a smile and politeness goes a long way .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
No , as a Swiss citizen you do not need a visa for visits up to 90 days . References : <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
As a Spanish citizen , one does not seem to need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . The <URL> has a very strange page saying first " VISA REQUIREMENT BY COUNTRY , please click the following websites , www.imi.gov.my or www.kln.gov.my " , &amp; then displaying information about " SINGLE ENTRY VISA VALID FOR 14 OR 30 DAYS " . I chose to ignore the last info &amp; go to the <URL> which is the website of the Immigration Department in Malaysia . The <URL> does not mention Spain as one of the nationalities when a visa is needed . The only conclusion I can draw is that Spanish nationals do n't need a visa for Malaysia . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
All you need is the HK SAR passport . The page is worded that way because they ca n't say " nationals of Hong Kong " : Hong Kong is a part of China , so there are no citizens of Hong Kong , only <URL> . And they also ca n't say " nationals of China " , because that would give visa-free access to everybody in China . So they say " permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR " , and how do you demonstrate that you are one ? By being a " holder of the Hong Kong SAR passport " . Where you actually live is irrelevant . Your question also implies that residency of Hong Kong alone is enough to get visa-free access to Russia , but this is not the case ; for example , <URL> .
You 're very unlikely to get them rejected if you go through an agency , as they 'll make sure you have all the right information before they submit it to the various government departments . I use <URL> in 2008 to get a tourist visa , and this year for a 3 month double entry business visa , and both times they were fantastic . Both Mongolia and China you can apply for on the road , at embassies or consulates , or just go directly to the websites and fill in the forms and take them to the embassies in London . They 're fairly straightforward , it 's only Russia that is tricky . China I even got at the border last time I went , although I would n't rely on that . One more point - booking the train tickets from outside is FAR more expensive than booking in the countries themselves . I 've just arrived in Volgograd after 34 hours from St Petersburg , and I booked that with 4 hours to go , so there 's really no problem getting tickets in either Kupe or Platzkart classes . Just a thought , it 'll save you a lot if you 're able to be flexible , unless you 're able to get a massive discount by buying the whole lot . It 's tricky to use , but <URL> has the local prices and availability for trains , if you 'd like to have a look and compare . City names must be entered in Cyrillic , but Google Translate does that quite easily for you . Good luck , it 's a fantastic experience .
end question
start question
How many laptops can I take from India to UK in flight ?
Unlike India , the UK ( and the European Union as whole ) has no hard and fast rule on the number of electronic items you may carry with you . What 's allowed is the following : Taking personal effects that you need for the duration of your trip across the border , especially if you are not a resident . Importing things that are worth up to GBP 390 tax and duty-free ( except a few things like alcohol and tobacco for which there are special rules ) . Importing much anything , provided you declare the goods as appropriate ( except fresh foodstuff , forbidden drugs or weapons , etc. ) . In practice , having two used laptops with you as a businessman is a non-issue . Also , for really expensive professional equipment , there are procedures ( e.g. the ATA carnet ) to provide guarantees that you are not going to import it illegally . What matters here however is the purpose ( temporary import ) , not the value or number of items per se . By contrast , carrying 3-4 identical laptops could raise concern ( e.g. that you do not really intend to take them back with you but will sell them or even give them away , which is not allowed if the total value is over the threshold ) . Similarly , if you were a resident that just went shopping abroad , even a single brand new laptop worth more than the threshold would have to be taxed . And note that the rules imply that any item being used permanently in the EU must have been declared and/or taxed at some point ( when it was imported , when it was purchased or perhaps as part of a move ) . It does n't matter whether you had only one item when crossing the border or were not detected at that moment , if you own a laptop whose serial number identifies as originating abroad and you ca n't prove you imported it properly , <URL> .
<URL> has information going back several years . Their level of coverage is generally excellent , although it can vary a little depending on the airline/location . You will need to create a free account in order to view data more than a few days old . Specifically for your flight they do n't have any specific information , only scheduled information that the flight was from Zurich ( ZRH ) to Amsterdam ( AMS ) , departing at 7:25 PM and arriving at 9:00 PM on an Embraer RJ170/190 . The lack of information could mean that there is a hole in their data , or it could mean that the flight did not fly for some reason ( ie , it was canceled ) . Checking that same flight for days before and after there is full information available .
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
The main agencies are <URL> and <URL> , although most of the individual boatyards are now on the internet , and you might get a better deal if you contact them directly . Google ' boatyard ' plus the region or the name of the waterway that you 're interested in . You are allowed to drive the boat yourself and you do n't need any kind of permit . If you have n't driven one before , the boatyard will give you a quick lesson when you pick up the boat - it 's very easy . Some of the boatyards do n't allow all-male or all-female adult groups ( i.e. no stag/hen parties ) . This answer is for the UK 's <URL> , i.e. canals , lakes and smallish rivers . The boatyards do n't allow you to take this kind of boat on large rivers ( such as the lower reaches of the Thames ) or out to sea . Insurance is usually included in the price of rental . Fuel is often extra . If you 're having the boat for more than about a week then you may need to pay to have the sewage/waste-water tank pumped out ( there are lots of boatyards that provide this service ) . Mooring is sometimes free ( e.g. at the side of a field ) and sometimes you have to pay ( e.g. at the side of a pub ) .
Cows are considered holy in Hindu religion , not India as a whole per se . North/East/West India are primarily Hindu-majority regions and thus you 're highly unlikely to find any beef , except perhaps at dodgy places in Muslim-dominated parts of those towns . Dodgy places because in those three parts of India cow slaughter is frowned upon and you do n't find organised slaughterhouses for cows . While Southern India has its own conservative Hindu population which do not eat beef , it also has proportionally higher numbers of Christians and Muslims - historically because Christianity was brought in by sea traders . Beef is not as uncommon in South India and you will certainly find it some restaurant menu ( typically ones that are not under a Hindu owner 's management ) . This is generally in upscale restaurants or hotels bars with a significant foreign visitor clientèle . You 'll never find beef products in chain restaurants such as McDonald 's , Pizza Hut , Domino 's etc. ( For instance , there 's no Big Mac burger in Indian McDonald 's restaurants ; instead , they have a ' <URL> ' which is about the same size but with chicken patties . ) Chain restaurants across India are primarily owned by a handful of companies based in North India . This was somewhat of <URL> . You might come across signs in restaurants to this day which state ' Beef and beef products not sold here ' . Since the availablity of beef is so restricted , I ca n't think of how you 'd end up eating it in a public place . Nevertheless , it is n't illegal and if you do acquire beef then you can cook it in your own home too .
Roman Roads The road system developed by the Romans during their Empire was indeed impressive . Wherever the Romans went , they paved their way there . After all , what 's the point of an Empire encompassing such a vast area if one can not easily reach everywhere from everywhere ? <URL> : At the peak of Rome 's development , no fewer than 29 great military highways radiated from the capital , and the late Empire 's 113 provinces were interconnected by 372 great roads . The whole comprised more than 400,000 km of roads , of which over 80,500 kilometres ( 50,000 mi ) were stone-paved . In Gaul alone , no less than 21,000 kilometres ( 13,000 mi ) of roadways are said to have been improved , and in Britain at least 4,000 kilometres ( 2,500 mi ) . The courses ( and sometimes the surfaces ) of many Roman roads survived for millennia . Some are overlaid by modern roads . Or , to put it in the words of Dionysius of Halicarnassus , Ant . Rom . 3.67.5 : The extraordinary greatness of the Roman Empire manifests itself above all in three things : the aqueducts , the paved roads , and the construction of the drains . [ Ref1 ] Tracing the Roads According to <URL> , most roads in Europe do indeed lead to Rome . By crunching <URL> data using <URL> , they traced all the roads leading to Rome given some 486,713 starting points . The result is the following cartographic representation of Europe : <URL> Roads to Rome , Moovel Lab , Fair Use But it does n't end here . As it turns out , in the US alone <URL> . Below are the 312,719 US roads which lead to one of these Rome 's : <URL> Roads to Rome [ US ] , Moovel Lab , Fair Use Many Roads Lead to Rome As it turns out , many roads do indeed lead to Rome . <URL> Keep this in mind when you plan your next trip . [ Ref1 ] : Quilici , Lorenzo ( 2008 ) : " Land Transport , Part 1 : Roads and Bridges " , in : Oleson , John Peter ( ed . ) : The Oxford Handbook of Engineering and Technology in the Classical World , Oxford University Press , New York , ISBN 978-0-19-518731-1 , pp. 551 -- 579 ( 552 )
From the US Consulate : Tourists to Mexico wishing to travel beyond the border zone with their car must obtain a temporary import permit or risk having their car confiscated by Mexican customs officials . To acquire a permit , one must submit evidence of citizenship , title for the car , a car registration certificate and a driver 's license to a Banjercito branch located at a Mexican Customs office at the port of entry , and pay a processing fee . Mexican law also requires the posting of a bond at a Banjercito office to guarantee the departure of the car from Mexico within a time period determined at the time of the application . For this purpose , American Express , Visa or MasterCard credit card holders will be asked to provide credit card information ; others will need to make a cash deposit of between $ 200 and $ 400 , depending on the age of the car . Please do not forget to ask for your receipt from Banjército . In order to recover this bond or avoid credit card charges , travelers must return to any Mexican Customs office immediately prior to departing Mexico . Disregard any advice , official or unofficial , that vehicle permits can be obtained at checkpoints in the interior of Mexico . Avoid individuals outside vehicle permit offices offering to obtain the permits without waiting in line . If the proper permit can not be obtained at the Banjercito branch at the port of entry , do not proceed to the interior where travelers may be incarcerated , fined and/or have their vehicle seized at immigration/customs checkpoints . So it sounds really like as long as you have the ownership papers and registration , it does n't matter how many cars in your convoy :D
Travelers leaving or entering the U.S. with more than $ 10,000 ( in any form , that includes cash or checks ) are required to declare it by filling out a Report of International Transportation of Currency or Monetary Instruments ( <URL> ) . This applies even if you are passing through the U.S. in transit to other countries . Source : <URL>
Malaria is transmitted by a specific type of mosquito ( female anopheles ) that breeds in still / stagnant water that collects after monsoons . If you 're travelling during winter or summer in India , you do n't have to worry about this too much as the weather conditions are not conducive for these specific mosquitoes to breed . Locals usually do n't take malaria pills , instead preferring to sleep in mosquito nets that will prevent you from getting bitten regardless of what type of mosquito it is . Most mosquitoes you 'll get bitten by ( and you will ) are harmless . While most travellers going to take precautions against malaria , another mosquito vector-borne disease that is common in India is <URL> . Compared to malaria , dengue is a bigger threat as it 's harder to ' prevent ' ; there are no pills or vaccinations for it . Like malaria , this is also transmitted by a specific kind of mosquito ( aedes aegypti ) locally known as ' tiger mosquito ' as it has yellow-striped bands on its legs . If you see such a mosquito , then you know to be extra careful . City and town authorities take disease control seriously and frequent fumigation is carried out during monsoon season ; you will be fairly safe when if you 're stick mostly to cities when travelling . It helps to keep an eye on local newspapers if you 're travelling for longer periods for news about dengue outbreaks . Take extra precaution when you 're staying near places with stagnant pools of water , such as the nature reserves , backwater lagoons et al. . Long story short : Sleep in a mosquito net , or burn a ' <URL> ' ( ask for it at any convenience store ; it burns slowly and releases smoke fumes that keep mosquitoes away . Handier to carry around than a net , but fragile so no point buying in bulk as they will break when packed in bags ) . It will keep you safe from malaria/dengue-carrying mosquitoes and every other kind .
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
I could not find any reference that confirms these claims . Anyway I found out this <URL> : Cruise ships carrying more than 500 passengers will be prohibited from landing anyone . Only 100 visitors are to be allowed on shore at any given time , in an attempt to prevent damage to the region 's unique ecosystem . So it seems that the limits are for the ships to not allow more than 100 passengers on land in Antarctica . According to the same article the visitors to Antarctica are around 45,000 annually . With simple calculations you will find out that if these visitors stayed one day only there could be more than 100 people at the same time .
So I 've answered a similar question somewhere on here before , but it was for freighters , so arguably different . Anyway , when I was looking into this a few years ago , I based my search on real travel a friend of mine did . She cycled from London to Christchurch , NZ by bike , and had to take boats where water got in the way . She had zero experience , but even if you have some experience , it increases the possibilities for you - on <URL> . This is for sometimes just company for the sailing parties , or to help with expenses , or to actually work on board , depending on your level . She also found going down to the marinas and just asking around also gave her quite a few leads , as there 's usually more knowledge there about which boats need people .
As a local it 'll be different , as you 're living part of any conflicts . However , as a traveller sometimes you 're at risk because you 're naive and have no idea about how to act , where to go and what not to do in these situations . At the same time you 're also sometimes not a target , depending on the circumstances . In these times , the best place to go is various countries ' government travel advisory pages . For example , the <URL> . Some of these you 'd expect from news ; places like Mali , Syria or Yemen , but there are also some surprises sometimes - for a while the Australian travel advisory site listed New Zealand as a place of warning - in post-earthquake Christchurch . In this case , the US State Department site does n't list India at all , so they 're not concerned about you travelling there . However , I tend to look at the NZ Safe Travel Site , also a government site , as they list their assessment of EVERY country . In the case of India - <URL> actually lists a few major concerns , and in the case of areas you 're asking about : There is high risk to your security in the north eastern states of Tripura , Manipur , Assam , Nagaland and we advise against all tourist and other non-essential travel to these states due to the threat of terrorist activity , violent crime and demonstrations . Their page was updated today , so it 's fairly current .
It 's been several years since I 've been to Dorst Creek , but based on what I remember ... It really comes down to which campsite you have booked . Several of the camp sites in this ground are actually fairly small - much smaller than you 'd normally expect in a National Park campground . Other campsites are much larger , especially those on the outsides of the loops . Depending on the exact site you have booked , 3 tents may be , at best , a stretch - especially if the sites next to you have more than one tent on them . You can find a map of the campground <URL> which will give you some idea of how large your campsite might be . If you find that one of your tents does n't fit , then I would suggest asking nicely at a few nearby sites ( especially the larger ones ) to see if they would be willing to share . Officially this is not allowed , but given that you are already staying in the campground you likely wo n't have too much trouble finding another site that would be willing to let you put up one tent . Also , keep an eye out on recreation.gov for available sites - people do cancel , and it 's not uncommon to be able to snag something in the week or so beforehand . Enjoy Sequoia ( and if you get the chance , Kings Canyon ) - they are a great pair of parks . If they were n't so far away I 'd be there every few months :)
In the UK , if domestic and international travellers are mixed , you will have to have a photo taken whilst passing through security if you are connecting to a domestic flight . At the gate , they match this photo up with the one taken at security . Details can be found <URL> . To strengthen the security of the United Kingdom border , airports that operate common departure lounges must comply with UK Border Force conditions that are necessary to prevent any circumvention of UK immigration controls . This includes a requirement to capture a facial biometric for each domestic passenger on entry and exit of a departure lounge in order to verify their identity . Update : I think there 's some confusion in the other answers about what the question is exactly . Let 's say you fly Boston - Heathrow - Paris . In this case you do not pass through immigration , but just a security and boarding pass check . You then board your flight to Paris where you would go through immigration . The OP is asking what if you went through security and then attempted to board a domestic flight to , say , MAN , perhaps by swapping a boarding pass with someone else , or just using a second BP you 'd already printed under a different ticket ( though that will also result in failure due to Ready To Fly in LHR ) . What will happen is that you will arrive at the gate with the intention of boarding your domestic flight . You will face the biometric camera and it will not recognise you and you will be denied boarding . The only way of exiting the airport will be through immigration .
All Eurostar services are subject to Juxtaposed border controls . That means you clear the UK border somewhere on the Continent ( generally in France , except for Brussels where it 's in Belgium ) , and hence you also exit Schengen there too . Depending on the station , after Eurostar checkin you either do security first then France/Belgium exit then UK entry , or France/Belgium exit then UK entry then security . Because of this , only stations that are fully setup with local and UK border staff on hand + appropriate facilities + segregated platforms can act as the " final " departure station for a Eurostar train . Pretty much , that means the " initial " set of Eurostar stations . That covers the " normal " ones of Calais / Lille / Paris / Brussels , plus the " special " ones running from the beginning of Disneyland Resort ( Marne-la-Vallée / Chessy ) and 2 of the Ski stations ( Bourg St Maurice / Moutiers ) . There is a full border screening area on arrival in the UK at St Pancras . However , it 's not normally in use , and you just walk through it before you walk through customs . Very very occasionally , it 's in use , and you have to re-clear UK immigration on arrival in St Pancras , showing them your passport and often your ticket too . I 'm told that this tends to only happen when the police or border staff decide they want to speak with someone between the time they cleared the Juxtaposed border and arrival into London . I 'd say I 've had it maybe 1 in every 20 trips . For all other Eurostar services , such as the new one serving Lyon and Marseille , there is n't the secure platform nor the border staff nor the space for immigration . So , for these trains , they stop them at Lille + get everyone off + get them through security + immigration in Lille , before re-boarding and carrying on to the UK . This takes about an hour , but does mean there 's no 30 minute checkin time before leaving France . . There is one special other case which I think might be confusing you - Eurostar sell through tickets including a French TGV connection to a range of French stations , including some that they also run their own trains to . With those , coming back , you take a regular French TGV as far as Paris or Lille , then go through the normal Eurostar checking + immigration + security there before boarding your Eurostar . Eurostar run only 3-5 direct trains per week to Disneyland Resort / Marne-la-Vallée , number depending on season and demand . At all other times , if you ask Eurostar to sell you a ticket to Marne-la-Vallée , they 'll actually sell you a return to Lille plus TGV tickets to/from Lille to Marne-la-Vallée . If you book one of those services , then you wo n't be on a Eurostar all the way to Disney , and you 'll do immigration + security when you change from TGV to Eurostar in Lille . . Otherwise , handy quick test for your journey : If the journey has no changes and the duration is about the same ( + -10 minutes ) for the UK-Continent and Continent-UK directions , you 'll do security + immigration at your starting station in France/Belgium If the journey has connections ( eg London to Lille , Lille to Marne-la-Vallée ) , you 'll do security + immigration after your TGV leg but before your Eurostar leg on the way back If the journey has no changes but the return duration is about an hour longer on the return ( eg London-Lyon in 4 hours 40 , Lyon-London in 5 hours 45 ) , you 'll be kicked off your Eurostar partway through the journey in Lille , to go through security + immigration in Lille
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
According to <URL> ( Japanese only ) a standard letter from Osaka to Tokyo will be delivered " next day " .
Unterkunft - the most general word that includes everything else ( just like accomodation ) Hotel Gasthof , Gasthaus - translates best as " inn " , may or may not offer rooms as well as food Pension - similar to bed &amp; breakfast , the most common in rurual areas Berghütte , Hütte - shelter for hikers and mountaineers in alpine areas , generally offers only shared rooms Ferienwohnung , Ferienappartment - apartment for short-term rental , will have bathroom and cooking facilities . May be part of a larger complex or the owner 's house . Ferienhaus , Ferienbungalow - same , but implies a separate building Jugendherberge - Youth hostel
end question
start question
How many nationalities can I have ?
There is no international authority that sets any such limit , nor one which would have the ability to enforce it . But for most people , it is not practical to maintain too many multiple nationalities . Most countries frown upon multiple citizenships , and place some restrictions on it , at least on paper . Some countries , like Austria , only allow dual citizenship <URL> , others , like Japan , do not recognize the concept at all , and will <URL> or relinquish your Japanese citizenship if they find out that you have others . In other cases , retaining a nationality for a country where you do not reside may not be worth the trouble . The United States , for example , attempts to collect tax on worldwide income , whereas most countries only tax income earned within that country . Enforcement of this policy has become far stricter in recent years , and some U.S. expatriates are choosing to <URL> rather than have to file tax returns to a country where they may not have resided for decades .
According to their website , they only release some tickets online , so " Sold Out " does n't actually mean you ca n't go , only that the tickets released online have been sold out . From the <URL> they suggest their tickets may be bought out by scalpers : Resellers of our entrance tickets are active on the internet . They buy up our entrance tickets online , and attempt to sell them at a large profit , often for double the price . This is not permitted . Do not buy tickets from these organisations ; you may be refused entry . ... and in the <URL> ... I want to make a timed reservation using the online reservation system on the website , but I see that very few times are left available . Is the service really fully booked , or is there another way to make a reservation ? On the website you can see exactly what times are still available . If you still want to come at a particular time for which no more online tickets are available , then you can always buy tickets at the Anne Frank House entry desk . However , you may have to wait in the queue . The place is almost always busy as noted by many reviews online and from my own experience as well . Here are some tips ( some are common sense ) : Summer months ( especially July-August ) will be a lot busier than other times of the year . Go in winter when people are less inclined to queue outside . Weekends will be busier than weekdays . Check the <URL> and arrive a half-hour before opening ( or earlier ) . The wait times later in the day can reach over 3 hours ( in peak periods ) . Go in the evenings ( after 5 or 6pm ) when the queues are shorter . This wo n't work in Summer however . Some third parties may sell " general entrance tickets " but these wo n't let you skip the line , I think you need to exchange these at the ticket counter When purchasing tickets at the counter , they must be used then , so you ca n't purchase them for later in the day or another day You could try to join organised tours that claim they can <URL> . If you do manage to get a ticket online , this allows entry at a specific time on a particular day , and you wo n't have to wait in line , there is a separate entrance . Finally if you do see a line , <URL> Estimating the wait How can you gauge your time ? If the line is an L shape , ending just along the Westerkerk , that 's about an hour . If the line is an L shape but ends past the Westerkerk and at the Keizergracht canal , that 's two hours . If the line is a Z and has now turned at the Keizergracht canal and is running behind the Westerkerk , that 's three hours . Any longer , well , you do the math .
I see five ways to salvage the situation . Spend the night in Milan and leave early on the following day . You will then be in Antibes around noon . Take the train to Ventimiglia and spend the night there . On the following day , continue to Antibes . You will then be able to arrive in Antibes in the early morning Rent a car in Milan , drive to Antibes and drop it there . It 's a 4-5 hours drive . You will then arrive on Antibes in the late evening . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and continue to Antibes by taxi . You can expect this to cost around 200 EUR . Take the evening train to Ventimiglia and then a train to Nice . The last trains leave at 21h49 and 22h40 from Ventimiglia . Nice you can take a taxi . Cost ~ 70 EUR
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
The shortest crossings are the quickest and cheapest . So Dover/Calais is very popular . And the EuroTunnel train from Folkstone/Calais is effectively the same , but quicker ( 35 minutes compared with 90 minutes ) and more expensive . However you then have to factor in the drive to and from the crossing points , which costs both time and money . Hence a longer more expensive crossing may suit you better . For example the 10 hour crossing from Rotterdam to Hull is probably more time-effective than driving from Rotterdam to Calais and Dover to Hull . Other factors : Frequency of crossing . If there are only 3 ferries a day , then missing the ferry is a big deal . There are often 3 trains an hour , so no big deal to miss one , and indeed one often can get on an earlier train . Seasickness : some of these crossings ( North Sea , Bay of Biscay ) can be rough . 10 hours on a heaving ship may not suit you . Hence we do usually take the train . Some folks treat the sea voyage as part of the holiday ; it can be fun . Some longer crossings are over-night , and the ferry will have the possibility to book a cabin for a few 10s of pounds so with any luck you can get a good night 's sleep . For folks with limited holiday time this saving of a night can be a boon .
Tattoos or <URL> as they are called in Japanese were criminalized in the beginning of the Meiji period ( some time after 1868 ) as a way to make a good impression on the west . ( A bit ironic in this case ... ) It was legalized again after the war in 1948 but still retains its image of criminality . For many years , traditional Japanese tattoos were associated with the yakuza , Japan 's notorious mafia , and many businesses in Japan ( such as public baths , fitness centers and hot springs ) still ban customers with tattoos . ( from wikipedias <URL> article )
It 's been several years since I 've been to Dorst Creek , but based on what I remember ... It really comes down to which campsite you have booked . Several of the camp sites in this ground are actually fairly small - much smaller than you 'd normally expect in a National Park campground . Other campsites are much larger , especially those on the outsides of the loops . Depending on the exact site you have booked , 3 tents may be , at best , a stretch - especially if the sites next to you have more than one tent on them . You can find a map of the campground <URL> which will give you some idea of how large your campsite might be . If you find that one of your tents does n't fit , then I would suggest asking nicely at a few nearby sites ( especially the larger ones ) to see if they would be willing to share . Officially this is not allowed , but given that you are already staying in the campground you likely wo n't have too much trouble finding another site that would be willing to let you put up one tent . Also , keep an eye out on recreation.gov for available sites - people do cancel , and it 's not uncommon to be able to snag something in the week or so beforehand . Enjoy Sequoia ( and if you get the chance , Kings Canyon ) - they are a great pair of parks . If they were n't so far away I 'd be there every few months :)
There are numerous companies that offer mail scanning/destruction/forwarding services . They vary dramatically in price and service levels , so I 'd suggest a bit of research into whichever one you select would be a good idea . There is an excellent list of a number of the services including prices in <URL> . The rest of that thread ( click the thread link in the top right ) has some further suggestions , but be aware that there are occasionally straw-man posts in that and similar threads ( although most of them get deleted shortly afterwards ) . Personally I took a different approach . The majority of the places I receive mail from ( or at least , the ones I cared about ) had the ability to send as an email rather than via mail , so all of my bank statements , etc all come through as emails . The remaining mail I get sent to my parents , who generally hold it until the next time I 'm in the country to cull it out and find the one or two things in there that matter ! Things I do require more quickly ( eg , new bank/credit cards if the old one if expiring ) they simply re-package and send onto me .
There are two options . The easy way is cash , which is ( at time of writing ) still accepted by every toll plaza on every Japanese expressway : just collect a chit on entry and pay when you leave . But if you 're driving longer distances or on multiple days , you 'll want to look into getting set up for ETC ( electronic toll collection , but called " ETC " even in Japanese ) . This requires both a reader mounted on the dashboard , which is standard equipment in Japanese rental cars , and an ETC card , which is used to bill you . Getting your own card is a bit of a hassle if you 're not a resident , but fortunately most ( but not all ) rental agencies participate in a scheme that lets you rent one for only around & yen ; 300 for two weeks . It 's worth calling ahead to check if one will be available though ; if not , you can use <URL> . Convenience aside , while standard toll fees for ETC are exactly the same as paying in cash , having an ETC card also lets you take advantage of a plethora of discount schemes for weekends , late nights , etc : <URL> Particularly useful are the tourist-only regional Expressway Pass schemes , where you can pay flat fees of as little as & yen ; 500/day to use them . <URL> These are quite a deal if you 're driving longer distances , as the regular toll is around & yen ; 25/kilometer , meaning ( say ) Sapporo-Obihiro , a distance of under 200km , would cost you over & yen ; 5000 otherwise .
<URL> If you are flying out of Lima internationally , the airport tax is US$ 31 , US$ 7.40 for domestic flights . As of January 2011 this tax has been rolled into the purchase price of the tickets at this airport . Ensure you receive a sticker on the back of each ticket from the check-in counter to attest to this at the security checkpoint .
This is a common situation , and it 's generally no problem . I 'll use A for the country you 're in , and B for the country you 're going to , but all the " flows " described here work equally well if you want to use your B passport to go to a third country . Case 1 : Same name , dual citizenship OK If you have the same name in both passports ( that is , same first name and last name , minor variations are OK ) , and both countries accept dual citizenship ( if you 're not sure , <URL> ) , the basic formula is : Show the airline the passport of the country you 're going to Show immigration the passport for the country you 're in In step-by-step detail , when flying from A to B and back : At check-in , show your B passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your A passport . ( In countries without exit immigration , like the US , you may need to show A as well at check-in . ) At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . And on the way back from B to A , just reverse the process : At check-in , show your A passport . This way the airline knows you will be allowed to enter your destination . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show either passport , does n't matter . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Pictorial representation for a UK/US dual citizen visiting the US , courtesy <URL> : <URL> Case 2 : Different names , dual citizenship OK If your names are different , but your countries are OK with each other : Book your flight with the name on your A passport . At airline check-in , show your A passport that matches the name on your ticket , and your B passport , that proves you 're allowed to enter . At exit immigration , show your A passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly . On arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , at check-in , show your A passport only . At exit immigration , show your B passport . At the gate , show your A passport , so that your name matches your ticket . Fly back . On arrival immigration , show your A passport . Case 3 : Same name , dual citizenship not OK Things get harder if one or both your countries does not accept dual citizenship , especially if they care enough to look for visas or arrival stamps . The key thing to understand here is that the airline is not a part of immigration . They do not care if you have multiple passports and they are not going to tell immigration if you do , all they want to know if whether you will be allowed in at your destination . So here 's one way to avoid letting A know you are also a citizen of B : Book a flight from A to B via a neutral third country C , where you do not need a visa . ( For example , Malaysia does not accept dual citizenship , so dual-citizen Malaysians often travel via Singapore . ) On check-in , show your A passport . At exit immigration , show your A passport . Fly to C. Connect to your flight to B . At arrival immigration , show your B passport . On the way back , though , you will need a short detour : At check in , show your B passport . At exit immigration , show your B passport . Fly to C. On arrival at C , do not go to transfer , but instead go to immigration , show your A passport and get it stamped . ( Leave enough time for this ! ) If you need to check-in again , show your A passport . At C 's exit immigration , show your A passport again and get it stamped again . Fly to A . At arrival immigration , show your A passport . This will have a departure stamp from C , neatly hiding that you were actually in B. Beware that this is not totally foolproof , as a very careful inspection of your stamps will reveal that you were not in C for the whole time , but unless you 're North Korean , it 's unlikely you will be subjected to this level of scrutiny . Some people choose to go through immigration in C on the way out as well , so they get more decoy stamps . Case 4 : Different names , dual citizenship not OK If you have different names and your countries do n't like each other , you can still use the same method as above , but you 'll likely need to to book your A-C-A flight in your " A " name and your C-B-C flight in your " B " name .
I think it may vary from country to country , but usually you 're allowed to bring 200 cigattes . From <URL> : Each Member State decides on the limit applicable : 200 cigarettes or 40 cigarettes ; * 100 cigarillos or 20 cigarillos ; * 50 cigars or 10 cigars ; * 250 grams of tobacco or 50 g smoking tobacco * * Each amount represents 100 % of the total allowance for tobacco products and any combination of those products must not exceed 100 % . Example : 100 cigarettes + 50 cigarillos = total allowance <URL> confirms that 200 cigarettes can be brought into Germany tax/duty-free .
What is your home country and bank ? No , no details needed , this is not a scam attempt :-) . Knowing may help answers . I 'd expect the following to be the best solution if the service is available : In the past and almost certainly still you can send items to a Post Office to be held pending your collection . You would definitely want to check with Australia Post to see if this service is available and , if so , what mailing and physical office addresses are available for this service . As the letter would still be in the mailing system until collected the security would be good . Alternatively , if you know anyone in Australia they could act as a relay . My daughter is a hospital doctor in Canberra . She may be happy to act as a mail relay point . I imagine that you can get same day courier services from Canberra to Melbourne and pick up at a courier office . Obviously you 'd need some more details before you trusted you card to that arrangement :-) . If all else fails contact me offlist and we can discuss . My email address is on my profile page if required . ( I 'm in NZ ) .
So long as you 're using your own computers using SSL/TLS on websites should be sufficient , with a few caveats . Make sure you do n't have any rogue CA certs installed . eg . <URL> . Make sure that the URL in the address bar always says https instead of http to protect against <URL> style attacks . Also , this question might be better posted on security.stackexchange.com instead of travel.stackexchange.com . .
There are two potential issues here : Airport security and customs . For airport security : <URL> , " Liquids include liquid or semi-liquid foods , eg soup , jam , honey and syrups " and " Liquids in containers larger than 100ml generally ca n't go through security even if the container is only part full . " Exemptions ( e.g. essential medical purposes ) do n't seem likely to apply here . Watermelon is less <URL> than <URL> , so an agent might use that to classify it more toward the " liquid/container " side than the " solid " side of honey , and honey ( > 100 mL ) is not allowed . It is also less viscous than some honey . Edit to clarify : criteria used in practice for classification is a different question than that of what more scientifically-based criteria agents perhaps should use . In the US , the TSA lists it as <URL> . Although this is the result for the explicit query " watermelon , " the response does have a disclaimer that " Liquid or gel food items larger than 3.4 oz are not permitted in carry-on baggage " so if an agent decides that a watermelon is a non-empty container capable of holding 3.4 oz of liquid or gel , they might use their wide discretion to tell you it 's not allowed . For customs : Although generally speaking when entering <URL> , " <URL> , " other readers traveling to other countries should consider whether or not they 're allowed to transport fruits and seeds across national borders . Rules are much less restrictive for travel within the EU .
First of all , haggling is not an expected part of buying goods in Dubai , which is by a fairly long shot the most Westernized place of the Middle East . Most people shop in shopping malls much like those in London , where things have clearly labeled prices , and you would only negotiate for discounts if you 'd do that in the West as well ( say , buying a sofa ) . Neither will you need to haggle for taxis , public transport , restaurants , cafes , etc. . You can thus quite easily complete all your souvenir shopping in haggle-free comfort in a mall , department store or even supermarket -- I 've found the best thing to bring back from the Middle East is high-quality dates , and both Carrefour etc and the airport sell nice gift-wrapped ones at excellent prices . Where people do haggle is the traditional markets , most notably the gold souq and the other markets around the Creek . Rest assured , no merchant will be offended by you accepting their first price , in fact they 'll have a hard time containing their glee as they try to sell you more stuff and then pass you onto their friends to collect some commission on top . But if you must buy from a haggle-y shop and do n't want to haggle , I usually adopt this approach : establish a reference price by visiting a hotel gift shop ( ludicrously overpriced ) or a fancy air-con mall souvenir shop ( still overpriced , but not quite so badly ) and chop it down to what seems like a sensible level . Then walk into the bazaar shop and ask if you can buy X for Y dirhams . If they say " yes " , win-win ; if they say " no " , say thank you and walk away . If ( when ) they run after you yelling lower and lower prices , turn around once they get to the price you named and you have a deal .
You need to visit the Danish embassy/consulate ( or perhaps an embassy of another Schengen country which handles applications for Denmark in your current location ) , and fill the <URL> provided there . Usually you will be asked for the following documents : A copy of your passport a long with your original passport . Passport size photo , clear , no head cover , no smile , light background . Bank statement for the last six months to show that you can cover the trip expenses . Or , a job certificate from your employer showing your income . Invitation letters from sponsors ( if available ) Application fee ( differs from embassy to another , country to another ) These were the usual requests , sometimes they ask for more or less . It also depends on the country you request the visa from , but generally getting the Schengen visa is easy as long as you provided the papers they ask for . Remember , it takes around 2 weeks usually for the visa to be issued .
There 's much , much more information on <URL> on flight insights as they call it . You enter the route and click on that option , they graphically tell you all about what weeks of the year it would be the cheapest to do that trip , what day of the week is cheapest on average , what time of the day they 'd suggest flying , the alternative airports if applicable , the cheapest airlines on average , and on top of that they show a pie chart on how much each of these factors affect the price .
Checkpoint Charlie is probably worth seeing anyway but it 's very touristy and not quite a piece of the Berlin Wall : The checkpoint has been rebuilt and stands alone in the middle of the street . Incidentally , it became a symbol for several reasons but it was mostly notable as the only checkpoint for members of the allied forces . Other border crossings existed for Germans , including <URL> which was the first to open in the night of November 9 , 1989 ( East Germans -- who were actually hopping to cross the border and not merely going for symbolic value -- rushed to that one before the Brandenburger Tor or Checkpoint Charlie ) . <URL> is also still visible on the motorway ( not sure if it can be visited ) . There are actual pieces of the wall left in several places , including several watchtowers . <URL> is a famous one . It was a part of the " back wall " on the East German side , which means that it was n't accessible to the public ( the Spree river marked the border there ) . The paintings were made after the fall of the wall in 1990 . In walking distance from Checkpoint Charlie , the <URL> museum also includes an actual section of the wall . The <URL> is perhaps particularly interesting as it is intended as a reminder of what the wall was like , not merely a short piece of painted concrete but actually two walls separated by a no man 's land . There is a documentation center there as well . This would be the " official " institutional monument/museum devoted to the wall ( the museum at Checkpoint Charlie is a private exhibition and has occasionally been the center of controversies ) . Finally , in most of the city , the former border ( i.e. the " front wall " , except around Potsdamer Platz , where the stones actually follow the " back wall " ) is marked by a discrete row of stones on the street and there is a <URL> following it .
Depends on your ticket conditions and the airline in question , but odds are pretty likely the answer is no . What you have sounds like an open-jaw return : you 've basically paid for A-B/B-A return as a single ticket , with a small surcharge to return from C instead . Airlines will generally not refund any portion of a return ticket after the journey has begun ( = you have flown one half of it ) , and this applies to open-jaw returns as well . A " true " multi-city itinerary consists of a series of one-way flight tickets tacked onto each other . These would usually let you refund individual segments , because they 're separate tickets under the hood , but they also usually cost a lot more .
end question
start question
Do I need to have money when entering a country as a tourist ?
Customs officers generally make a judgement call . They want to know that you will be in the country only temporarily , and that you will not try to work without a work permit . I often arrive in countries with no local cash at all , but I have a bank card where I can withdraw cash on arrival and that 's no problem . If you have no cash , no credit card , and no bank card , how will you eat ? Where will you sleep ? They begin to suspect there is something you are not telling them . On the other hand if you arrive with $ 10,000 in cash , that will draw attention for other reasons . They want everything you bring to make sense and match with everything you say . You 're not planning to work ? Then why have you brought your special tools that you use for being a welder or a hairdresser or a fashion photographer ? You 're just here to visit a friend ? Then why have you brought all the clothes you own , family photo albums , and a collection of " we 'll miss you ! " cards from friends and family ? How much money you have with you fits into that thought process as well . There is an aspect of unfairness to all this , because it 's not as simple as " bring $ X and you 're all set . " It is a judgment call . Laws say things like " enough money to meet your needs " but obviously different people have different needs , and different lengths of trips , and different support from friends and family . Nothing is ever cut and dried at borders . And then there 's even just the matter of whether they check . If you 're well dressed and are carrying credit and debit cards along with stuff that suggests tourism , you 'll be treated differently than if you look like a hippy and are carrying only one debit card and some pot smoking paraphernalia . Once you 're in secondary they can check your criminal record , search the contents of computers , call the people you 're visiting and so much more that they would never do at primary . And then they might conclude they do n't want to let you in . I 've watched many episodes of Border Security ( I watch <URL> , but there are versions all over the world ) and listening in on them discussing how much money someone has it 's clear there 's no obvious number you know you 're ok as long as you have . It 's an overall presentation : logically , does what you are saying make sense and hang together ? If not , and they decide you 're arriving to work then they wo n't let you in . If you 're wandering the world with no clear ties to some other place , they might decide you want to stay here without applying to do so , and then they wo n't let you in . Etc. . You want to make sure you get across to them the truth of your situation , and it had better make sense .
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
Then normally , for most people , you would require a visa . However , keep reading , there is good news , I 'm just including all information for future people reading this . <URL> - for Indian passport , living in the US , you still need a visa , whether for business , tourist or transit purposes . <URL> also confirms - visitors to Canada from India require a visa . The Niagara Falls Live <URL> also confirms : Persons wishing to travel to Canada whom are not U.S. citizens ( ie : foreigner ) may be required to get a tourist visa from the Canadian consulate in the country from which they are arriving from . If you are in the USA on a visa and wish to visit Canada while in New York there is a Canadian consulate located in Buffalo New York . YOU CAN NOT OBTAIN A TOURIST VISA AT ANY OF THE BORDER CROSSINGS . When contacting the Consul , inform them that you wish to obtain a " temporary resident visa " . As of April 1st 2012 the fee per person is $ 75 for a single entry visa , $ 150 for a multiple entry visa or $ 400 for a family ( multiple or single entry ) . However , going back to the <URL> page : Visitor Visa Exemptions Many people do not require a visa to visit Canada . These include : persons lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who are in possession of their alien registration card ( Green card ) or can provide other evidence of permanent residence ; so it appears , in fact , that you would be totally fine , as you are in possession of a valid green card ! Update - As of 2016 , there is a new entry requirement in effect . US Permanent Residents ( " Green Card " holders ) entering or transiting Canada by air <URL> for an <URL> ( Electronic Travel Authorization ) to fly to or transit through Canada unless they are otherwise <URL> . This requirement does not apply to those entering by land or sea .
There is no exit customs for ordinary travelers in the USA . The only reason I know of ( and it does not apply here ) is if you had a high-value object , like imported photographic equipment , on which duty is usually paid in the United States , and you want to register the serial number with Customs so that on return to the United States there is no issue about paying duty on it again .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
Yes . The US does not have airside transit , you will need a C-1 transit visa or B-2 visitor visa .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
There are no requirements to provide proof of onward travel when entering the Schengen area . What you do need is adequate ' means of subsistence ' both for the intended period of stay and for onward travel out of the Schengen area . Each Schengen country has their own guidelines when it comes to the required amount of money . Iceland operates with a guideline of 4,000 krona per day , meaning that you with 360,000 krona or about US$ 2,800 have enough money for the allowed 90 days . Even if you need additional money to buy a return ticket , you are well beyond the required amount if you dispose of US$ 25,000 .
According to some studies , tomato juice , and many other foods , <URL> ( better in the case of tomato juice ) under the low pressure conditions in an airplane than they do at home .
Assuming you have a debit card on the Cirrus network , you should be able to get Canadian cash very easily . You should know we have two kinds of ATMs - those associated with a bank and the so-called " White label " ones that are typically in convenience stores and hotel lobbies and charge a much higher fee . The machine will tell you the fee as part of the transaction ( and you can cancel without incurring it if you do n't like it ) , but if you seek out a bank-associated one ( on the outside wall of a bank , typically , though there may be bank-associated ATMs at the airport ) you will save on fees . It would help to know a little French - please , thankyou , and numbers for speaking , more than that for reading . You will find that written signs are often in French only ( eg instructions in a parking garage ) which you can probably muddle through with a phrasebook as long as you have the time . Most people speak English , but the signs do n't give you that impression . Service people will typically greet you either with bonjour or hello-bonjour , which can be hard to recognize as a greeting at first . If you do n't have enough French to follow a TV show in it , and you do n't care about Canadian sports and politics , you are not likely to enjoy watching TV in the hotel ( the channels are half-and-half English and French and the hotels seem to carry less US channels than the rest of the country ) , so perhaps bring a book or something else for evening entertainment . Montreal is a great city for walking and a horrible city for driving . Bring a guidebook and go for walks at lunchtime , check out the old city , and try not to sneer at us for considering that to be old . I recommend against having an opinion on The Two Solitudes , Distinct Society , and the like . Eg do n't say " were n't you guys going to separate or something ? " with people you 've only just met . And bring your appetite ! The food in Montreal is amazing . You should eat smoked meat and bagels , and poutine , because they 're iconic , but you will also find wonderful fine dining , locavore , slow food , and more .
You can only pass through customs ( or immigration ) through designated ports of entry . This means that unless you have a special pass ( for example , ship crews have special passes ) , you need to go through the customs and immigration process . This is a burden on you as the traveler . It does not matter where you start the journey . Your status in the destination country/territory will depend on your current nationality . For example , if you are allowed to legally reside and visit a country without a visa , you will not be an illegal alien ( to prove this though , you 'll have to provide documentation - like a passport ) . However , there will still be issues with your departure as your arrival was not legal or documented . If questioned by police you will most likely be detained and deported for illegally entering the country . As for goods ( customs ) , it is more restrictive as each country has their own rules on what goods are allowed entry customs free , which goods need to be declared and which goods are forbidden . In either way the burden is on you to make sure your travel is legal and authorized even if you do n't need a visa to travel to the country ; or your port/manner of entry was not through the normal channels .
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
Yes , it is <URL> to insure cash theft within a travel insurance policy . I would recommend however that you minimize the cash you have on you , and document clearly your cash flow through receipts from banks , money exchanges and ATMs to prove that you had the cash on you . Regarding the <URL> , there <URL> against this . Since those things happen especially in certain countries ( Mexico , Brazil for example ) , it might be wise to insure against these if you have to go to these countries . I would not think that it is worthwhile getting such special insurance for other countries such as in SE Asia where this does not exist . You might have to look around for companies who insure against these specific issues , since UK citizens might be a much smaller market for express kidnapping insurance than for example US citizens living near the Mexican border . So to find a company that offers this in the UK might be difficult . It would be wrong however to say that such insurance does not exist . I would also doubt that this is automatically covered by your bank .
If you do n't buy insurance through the rental car company , and have no coverage through travel insurance , credit cards , or your home auto insurance , then the only liability insurance you will have is the minimum coverage the rental car company <URL> in most states . The minimum liability insurance you must have , by law , in Texas is detailed <URL> , along with other helpful information about car insurance in the US : The current minimum liability limits are $ 30,000 for each injured person , up to a total of $ 60,000 per accident , and $ 25,000 for property damage per accident . This basic coverage is called 30/60/25 coverage . This describes liability insurance , which is mandatory insurance that covers you for damages you may cause to other people or property while driving . Note that this limit is very low . It is quite possible to do far more damage than this while driving , and you may be sued for the difference . Remember that medical costs in the US are expensive ; a car accident victim can easily run up a hospital bill far more than $ 30,000 . In the unfortunate event of a fatal accident or one that leads to serious long-term disability where you are found to be at-fault , you could incur significant liability . It is not uncommon for rental car companies , <URL> , to offer $ 1,000,000 in supplemental liability insurance . The rental car company , or a third-party , will offer to sell you supplemental liability insurance , which will increase these limits and allow you to better protect yourself . Separately , there 's insurance for the car itself . You will not have any such insurance unless you purchase some , whether from the rental car company ( CDW or LDW , which is n't strictly insurance , but is the rental car company agreeing you 're not responsible for damage to their car ) or a third-party . If the car is damaged or destroyed , stolen while in your possession , filled with flood water , dented in a hailstorm , or spontaneously combusts , whether your fault or not , you are responsible for paying for it . You might be able to recover costs from someone else 's insurance if they hit you and they 're at fault ( assuming they have insurance ) , but the rental car company will come after you to pay up . They 'll also charge you for the loss in revenue they incur while the car is being repaired . Unless you 're prepared to pay for the car on the spot , insurance is a good idea . In addition , the rental car company may offer accidental medical and/or death insurance to cover you and your passengers . This is likely already handled by your travel insurance and may be unnecessary . They also may offer Personal Effects Coverage , which will pay you if your property is stolen from the car . Again , this may already be handled under your travel insurance and is best avoided by not leaving property unattended in your car . The New York Times has a <URL> to the options that may prove useful .
It 's possible and easy . You just have to go to one of the many mobile shops around and buy the sim card . In Portugal there are 3 physical operators : <URL> formerly known as <URL> <URL> <URL> You also have some virtual operators : <URL> - they usually have nice prices but everything is done on-line . You can buy a card in mobile phone shops or by snail mail <URL> - similar to uzo <URL> - you can find them in every post office shop ; it belongs to the post office company . <URL> - kind of new . It 's widely available and aparently with good prices . <URL> formerly known as ZON - it 's part of a cable tv group ; in principle a good solution but only if you subscribe to cable <URL> A very recent virtual operator , currently offering Internet when you top up . Recharging a pre-paid simcard in Portugal , for someone from abraod , can be a problem since the most common way of doing it is in ATM machines . You probably ca n't recharge your phone with a foreign ATM card since you only get a small set of operations . The alternative way is to go to the physical shop where you bought the card ( or another one from that network ) or go to any shop with " payshop " . You can find a near by agent here <URL> ( only pt ) . Lycamobile allows for an on-line recharge .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
What that page means : if you need a Visa to the Schengen area and your first country to land is Iceland , do n't come to us , go to the Embassy of Denmark . You are exempt for -- what I presume -- a short visit but there are many more cases where you might need a visa . For example , what if you reside in the UK but hold a non-UK passport ? You might need a visa and noone can expect you to fly back to Kyrgyzstan or something just to pick up a visa . What if you want to work in the Schengen area or even immigrate to ? And so on . Edit : since you edited your question , Iceland does n't enter into this picture ! <URL> you are entering Schengen in Paris : If you are transiting through an airport in France to travel to another airport in France or the Schengen Area you enter the Schengen Area at your arrival airport in France . You pass border police control at this point . Unless you are exempt , you are required to have an entry and short-stay visa for the Schengen Area . So you are exempt but if someone else reads this answer , they might not be .
No , you do n't need a transit visa - as long as you do n't leave the transit lounge . But be sure about your change with airlines/planes , as there are two airports in Istanbul . You may read detailed information on the <URL> . Edit ( not by Mahmut ) to include extract from part of the referenced website : Question : I will be flying to Europe . I know that our aircraft will land in İstanbul . I am not planning to leave the transit lounge . Do I need to get transit visa ? Answer : If you will not leave the transit lounge at the airport you are not required to have transit visa . The above to attempt to clarify that in the above circumstances the nationality of the traveller appears irrelevant ( though so does " I will be flying to Europe " , and interlining of luggage is not covered by the extract ) .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
Your question reminds me of a quote from a quantum mechanics teacher I once had : Only after teaching a subject twice , one may begin to understand it . Apart from hosting the occasional Couchsurfer , I have no experience myself in being a tourist guide . But I guess : to become a better tourist guide , be a tourist guide . I think in many places , tourist guides are often student jobs , relying not ( only ) on professionals but also a lot of amateurs . Therefore , if you 're genuinely interested in becoming a better tourist guide , you could apply to be one in your own city or region , maybe during the summer months ( or weeks ) . I 'd expect that this means following a few classes and then heading out in the city centre . You 'll tell the same story on every trip but might get different questions on every trip , that you would need to figure out . That 's probably a highly effective way to learn the touristic information for your city or region .
end question
start question
Is there any restriction/limitation against female passengers who travel to the Arab countries of the middle east by these countries ?
Yes , There are : Oman : Chinese , Russian and Ukrainian nationals may obtain visit visas following the same procedures provided that they are part of tourists groups arriving to the Sultanate through a local tourist agent or a hotel or as a family . In the case of groups , the number of females must not exceed the number of males . Source : <URL> Saudi Arabia : Due to the strict requirements of Saudi Arabia , women entering the Kingdom alone must be met by a sponsor or male relative and have confirmed accommodation for the duration of their stay . Additionally , entry may be refused to any visitor judged as behaving indecently , according to Saudi Arabia law and tradition . Source : <URL> Note that it 's extremely difficult for young , single women to enter the country unless it 's clear that they 're closely related to expatriate workers . Business women will encounter serious obstacles to entry unless they 're members of a Saudi family or have the sponsorship of a powerful Saudi national . Source : <URL> Qatar : For longer stays , visas must be arranged by having a sponsor . Unmarried women under the age of 35 will have a hard time in procuring a visa for a lengthy stay , as the country seems to fear that their safety and well being can not be guaranteed . Source : <URL> Syria : Citizens of Arab countries do not require visa , except unaccompanied Moroccan women below 40 years old . Source : <URL> Lebanon : Female travellers can also obtain a visa on arrival provided they have not formerly taken a job as artists ; in that latter case , they must gain approval in advance from Lebanese immigration . However , this approval is not required for : a. Wives of Lebanese citizens who have proof of the relationship ; b. Wives of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon who have proof of the relationship ; c. Wives of Syrian citizens accompanied by their husbands ; d. Travellers arriving with their parents , brothers or children provided they have proof of the relationship ; Source : <URL> UAE : A visa may not be issued to a woman under 30 years old travelling without her husband or father.Normally , there are no age-related restrictions . However , the UAE Government may sometimes impose restrictions for young lonely women . But a woman under 30 will have a visa issued without problems if she is travelling with her husband or father having the same last name . The problem can also be solved by booking and paying for a room in a 5-star hotel . The rejection risk will be much lower in that case ! Source : <URL> Bahrain : All other visitors require one of the following visas . Note that , although certain visas are theoretically obtainable on arrival in Bahrain , young single women should be sure to arrange them in advance , as they will come under scrutiny at the point of entry owing to the recent increase in the number of prostitutes attempting to enter Bahrain ! Source : <URL>
There are 192 members by the UN ( 193 if you count the Vatican , which is an observer without voting rights ) . There are 196 that qualify as ' independent countries ' . <URL> . <URL> This is debatable . For instance , I would say Taiwan is a country ... many people would disagree with me . Scotland and Wales I would not count as separate countries as they form a willing commonwealth in the UN as the United Kingdom . <URL> puts it at 204 ( including the new South Sudan ) . I would say this one is a little more controversial . It is up for debate if Northern Cyprus is sovereign . I prefer to use <URL> ( I 've seen it before , but I ca n't remember who came up with it ) and say there are 196 countries in the world . The criteria are : Has space or territory which has internationally recognized boundaries ( boundary disputes are OK ) . Has people who live there on an ongoing basis . Has economic activity and an organized economy . A country regulates foreign and domestic trade and issues money . Has the power of social engineering , such as education . Has a transportation system for moving goods and people . Has a government which provides public services and police power . Has sovereignty . No other State should have power over the country 's territory . Has external recognition . A country has been " voted into the club " by other countries Although , admittedly , some of these criteria are rather subjective .
Having some passport not recognized by some country is not that unusual . It 's pretty much certain to happen somewhere for passports of countries with partial recognition . Someone else mentioned passports of Northern Cyprus ( which is only recognized by Turkey ) , which <URL> , is only accepted in 6 countries . But there are many other countries in the same boat . The Republic of China passport : The Republic of China is recognized by 21 UN members plus the Holy See . But its passport is accepted in almost all countries . However , there are some peculiarities . <URL> , a few countries ( Argentina , Kenya , Laos , Nepal , Serbia ) will issue the visa on a separate sheet , not on the passport itself , presumably due to not recognizing the passport . Brazil apparently will require the person apply for a Brazilian laissez-passer as the document to put the visa on . China ( People 's Republic of ) will issue some kind of permit instead . The page for <URL> does not explicitly mention any country where it is not accepted . But common sense would dictate that it is not recognized by Serbia . The Nagorno-Karabakh passport is not recognized anywhere , <URL> ( though it 's unclear if that means it can not be used anywhere ) . For <URL> it says " not valid for travel to most countries " ( not really sure what that means ) . The pages for <URL> and <URL> do not explicitly mention any country where they are not accepted . But again , they would be at least not recognized by the countries that their territory is claimed by ( Azerbaijan for Nagorno-Karabakh , Moldova for Transnistria , Georgia for Abkhazia and South Ossetia ) . The page for <URL> also does not mention where it is not recognized ; but for that case it is conceivable that it could be recognized everywhere . For <URL> , it says it is accepted in 8 countries as unofficial travel documents , which probably means it is not accepted mostly everywhere else . South Koreans visiting North Korea will be issued a visa <URL> .
This is a matter that is not fully harmonized between the Schengen countries . Romania and some -- but not all ! -- Schengen states are parties to the <URL> , created under the auspices of the Council of Europe . If you 're going to one of the states that implement the Agreement , you should be allowed visits of up to three months . In practice I can imagine this would be administered by applying the usual Schengen 90/180 day rule to you . For travel to non-party states , such as Austria or Greece , you would probably need to apply for a visa . This do n't give you any right to work in other states , though -- which is consistent with the fact that even a work-and-residence permit issued by a Schengen state does not allow a third-country national to work in a different Schengen state . The EU freedom of movement rules apply only to nationals of EEA countries , not to non-citizen permanent residents .
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
A seeming oasis of paperwork-free work possibilities is Georgia , a country not yet well established in the minds of travellers and tourists from the west , located between Turkey , Russia , Azerbaijan , Armenia , and the Black Sea . Now it does n't answer the letter of your question but I believe it answers the spirit . If not to the original asker then certainly to others who find this question by searching the Internet for instance . So Georgia does n't grant work visas on arrival and in fact I 'm still not sure if they even have work visas specifically despite asking many locals and people working here and searching government websites . But most nationalities can visit without a visa and , <URL> , everyone is able to work here . Basically you get an on-arrival tourist visa ( passport stamp ) but are allowed to work on a tourist visa !
An expired residence permit certainly does not allow you to stay or travel in the Schengen area by itself . There are n't any systematic border checks so you would not generally meet any border guard at the border between Norway and Sweden or at the airport when flying back to Sweden . You might therefore easily get away with intra-Schengen travel without proper documentation . But it does not mean it would be legal or that you can not be asked about your status by the police in one country or the other ( even without traveling , incidentally ) . Furthermore , some airlines wo n't let you board without an appropriate visa ( Ryanair is one airline that is notorious for that , see previous questions like <URL> ) and many will at least check your ID so you would expose yourself to some scrutiny in any case . EDIT : Your citizenship makes your situation much easier . You can legally travel , leave and enter the Schengen area as a visitor for up to 90 days and this short-stay does <URL> . Legally speaking , you could also stay in Sweden on that basis alone ( people who can not stay in the Schengen area without a visa might have other ways to get a temporary permit but as far as I know you do n't need one and the advice you received about staying in Sweden would only become relevant if the process took more than three months ) . Do take the expired work permit with you to document the fact that you have n't been overstaying ( your last entry stamp is presumably much older than 90 days ) , show your passport if you are asked for ID ( I would not volunteer a confusing expired document unless it 's needed ) and you should be fine . If you left the Schengen area , I guess you could theoretically be refused entry when coming back but travel within the area should not be a problem at all , even if there is in fact a border check somewhere .
In general , when using your card abroad you get charged ( some ) of the following fees Currency exchange fee A fee levied by your bank for using your card abroad A fee levied by the ATM operator In your case ( 1 ) will not apply because the currency is the same , but ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) might still apply . ( 2 ) you need to check with your bank , and you should be informed about ( 3 ) by the ATM . From personal experience , ( 3 ) is not very common in Europe .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
It is certainly uncommon enough that I have never seen this happen . Specifically , since you are asking about Balkan countries and you have tagged your post with Montenegro , I can say that this did not happen even once last month when I was traveling through 3 Balkan countries . For water taxis , we were quoted the price ahead of time but did not need to pay ahead . We did take a small group boat which appeared to have a regular schedule . In that case , we bought a ticket a few meters in front of the dock and handed that over on the boat as proof of payment . This is not what I would call a water taxi since it is not scheduled on demand .
I do n't think there is any reason why you should n't start your visit in Venice and come to Milan later on . I suppose your explanation about flights is sound and reasonable , although there are plenty of flights to Venezia Tessera as well as to Verona airport . Normally , Milano is not considered worth visiting for more than one day , although there are monuments and museums here as well . If you can spare 10-15 days to visit Northern Italy , then you should be able to have at least a couple of days in Milan ( a bit on the expensive side as far as hotels are concerned ... ) , at least 4 in Verona if you plan to visit Lake Garda as well , then the rest for Venezia , but you should n't miss Padua and the Brenta Riviera with the various Palladio villas , Treviso and perhaps Asolo or Bassano del Grappa . " Acqua alta " may be a problem , but it is not all that frequent in early November , and quite often the weather is still pleasant . Enjoy your visit , whichever direction you will travel .
So basically it 's not just two countries that make up the difference . For example , as as Dutch citizen you can get a visa-on-arrival in Mozambique , while Sweden ca n't . Sweden has visa free entry into Vietnam , while Dutch do n't . Rather than list all the differences , I 'll point to these two Wiki pages : <URL> <URL> They list all the countries and the rules for the citizens - visa free , visa-on-arrival , and so on . It also means it 'll continue to be more up to date as the rules change ( eg this past year <URL> - go figure ! )
At different times in history , there has been suggested that a <URL> - between Zambia , Zimbabwe , Botswana and Namibia . However this is generally now not believed to be true , with instead two tripoints quite close to each other marked . Instead , the most is three , known as a tripoint . Amazingly , <URL> around the world . Well known international tripoints include : the Treriksröset tripoint of Finland , Norway and Sweden ( the exact point is in a lake , but a marker is built on that point ) the Vaalserberg of the Netherlands , Germany and Belgium the " Dreiländereck " of Germany , France and Switzerland ( the exact point is in the river and the monument is not on the exact point ) the Triple Frontier of Argentina , Brazil and Paraguay ( Yay , I 've been to this one ! ) the Tres Fronteras of Brazil , Peru and Colombia the Mont Dolent of Italy , France and Switzerland the historic Three Emperors ' Corner of Austro -- Hungarian , Russian and German Empires the historic Piz da las Trais Linguas ( Ortler Alps ) of Austria -- Hungary , the Kingdom of Italy and Switzerland the historic Rock of the Three Kingdoms between the former kingdoms of Galicia , León and Portugal ( nowadays part of the border between Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic ) . the Tossal dels Tres Reis ( ' Peak of the Three Kings ' ) , located where the borders of the ancient Kingdoms of Valencia , Catalonia and Aragon meet For a full list of all three-country tripoints , <URL> .
I have not " trekked " through the Balkans but I have cycled unaccompanied with no support through Croatia , Bosnia , Montenegro , Albania and Macedonia and found the people very friendly and helpful and the overall experience ' safe ' . Although my description of safe may differ from yours . I stayed in a hostel/b &amp; b for one night in Podgorica but the rest of the time I was bivouacking on the side of the road , in random shelters etc. . I think the locals that I did meet either did not understand my thick Yorkshire accent so were bemused by what I was saying or thought I was completely mad cycling through Europe on my own and did n't see me as a threat . But I have to say there was not one incident in the 6-7 days I was cycling through that I was ever in an unsafe situation .
If you want to experience perpetual summer , starting in Paris in October and then going to eastern Europe is not the best of ideas . And , depending on where in Turkey you plan to go , winters can get quite cold . Parts of Ethiopia have perpetual cold nights , any time of the year . Northern Iran can be very cold in winter . Furthermore , based on your description , you seem to plan on getting to South America in the middle of the year , which is the southern hemisphere 's winter . South American winter ai n't comparable to , say , central Asia 's , but particularly the south ( of South America ) can get very cold . And plenty of the beach resorts on the continent 's west coast wo n't be open for swimming . If , on the other hand , your only option is to go to the US from Paris , you 'd head into North American winter , which can also be pretty harsh . So , if you are flexible in your journey , but not in your dates , and assuming you will be traveling for about a year , I 'd say your best bet would be something like ... Paris - South America - North America ( at the start of spring ) - Asia - Middle East ( at the start of autumn ) - Europe .
In most Muslim countries , keeping the arms and legs ( and of course the cleavage ) covered would be considered completely sufficient , especially for someone who is visibly a foreigner . Some ( e.g. Turkey , at least the bigger cities ) are much more tolerant and nobody will feel offended by bare arms or legs . The strictest dress code exists in Saudi Arabia , where women are required to wear the black abaya , but not ( at least in theory ) to cover their heads . However , as an unmarried couple you 'd be breaking the law just by spending time together , so you 'll probably not want to go there anyway .
Yes . It is called a " trip/travel cancellation insurance " . Just like every other insurance , you get it before something happens , pay for your trip , get the insurance and then reclaim the money in case something prevents you from traveling . Of course , you will have to make sure that the policy covers the eventual reasons for the cancellation that you want to cover . There are some packages that allow you to protect yourself against a whole host of reasons , such as sickness etc. . If you are not concerned with a health-related issue , you can take a wholesale " cancel for any reason " insurance . There are some websites that help you do this . <URL> for example will list you all the companies that give a certain insurance type in your country . The rates can vary somewhere around 5 % to 10 % of the overall trip value , of course depending on all the different factors that play into insurance quotes . Regarding the racing tickets , there is a chance that the travel insurance will not cover this . You can however , get a separate insurance for those if this is the case . There are Even ticket insurances from insurance companies like <URL> , and one from <URL> ( this is a South African one ) themselves . It seems however after searching more that you will have to get this kind of insurance from the ticket vendor itself . Unless your travel insurance covers it or your ticket vendor does , you might be out of luck on that one . So you could ask directly at the company that sold you the tickets if they offer such protection , or ask your local insurance company . However , I personally never heard of a F1 race being cancelled or moved by several days . Maybe it would be worthwhile to investigate on the chances of that happening before breaking your head over an insurance .
No there is not . All countries in South-East Asia require licenses to drive a motorcycle , and even more so to rent one . That even goes for more remote locations like Laos , Cambodia and Myanmar . I want to add that there are countries like India where driving yourself is a REALLY bad idea . If you are in the countryside and have an accident where you injure someone or damage something valuable ( a holy cow for example ) , there is a risk that a mob from a local village attempts to kill you . Literally . Expats in India are generally not allowed and are forced to have a driver . So please check for each country if it 's smart do drive by yourself .
Yes , There are : Oman : Chinese , Russian and Ukrainian nationals may obtain visit visas following the same procedures provided that they are part of tourists groups arriving to the Sultanate through a local tourist agent or a hotel or as a family . In the case of groups , the number of females must not exceed the number of males . Source : <URL> Saudi Arabia : Due to the strict requirements of Saudi Arabia , women entering the Kingdom alone must be met by a sponsor or male relative and have confirmed accommodation for the duration of their stay . Additionally , entry may be refused to any visitor judged as behaving indecently , according to Saudi Arabia law and tradition . Source : <URL> Note that it 's extremely difficult for young , single women to enter the country unless it 's clear that they 're closely related to expatriate workers . Business women will encounter serious obstacles to entry unless they 're members of a Saudi family or have the sponsorship of a powerful Saudi national . Source : <URL> Qatar : For longer stays , visas must be arranged by having a sponsor . Unmarried women under the age of 35 will have a hard time in procuring a visa for a lengthy stay , as the country seems to fear that their safety and well being can not be guaranteed . Source : <URL> Syria : Citizens of Arab countries do not require visa , except unaccompanied Moroccan women below 40 years old . Source : <URL> Lebanon : Female travellers can also obtain a visa on arrival provided they have not formerly taken a job as artists ; in that latter case , they must gain approval in advance from Lebanese immigration . However , this approval is not required for : a. Wives of Lebanese citizens who have proof of the relationship ; b. Wives of Palestinian refugees in Lebanon who have proof of the relationship ; c. Wives of Syrian citizens accompanied by their husbands ; d. Travellers arriving with their parents , brothers or children provided they have proof of the relationship ; Source : <URL> UAE : A visa may not be issued to a woman under 30 years old travelling without her husband or father.Normally , there are no age-related restrictions . However , the UAE Government may sometimes impose restrictions for young lonely women . But a woman under 30 will have a visa issued without problems if she is travelling with her husband or father having the same last name . The problem can also be solved by booking and paying for a room in a 5-star hotel . The rejection risk will be much lower in that case ! Source : <URL> Bahrain : All other visitors require one of the following visas . Note that , although certain visas are theoretically obtainable on arrival in Bahrain , young single women should be sure to arrange them in advance , as they will come under scrutiny at the point of entry owing to the recent increase in the number of prostitutes attempting to enter Bahrain ! Source : <URL>
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
end question
