start question
How bad is Puerto Rico for hurricanes in June ?
The bulk of hurricanes which effect Puerto Rico are later in the season ( August , September , October ) . The chance of a June hurricane are fairly slim . Your best source of historical data would be the National Weather Service 's annual Atlantic Hurricane reports which go back 20 years online . You can see a map of all the storm paths for each year 's hurricane season and then read about each specific storm if any effect P.R. . <URL> Personally I would n't let the extremely slight risk of a hurricane deter me from visiting P.R. in June .
Macau had a reputation for being a haven for triads and gangs during the 90s , when it was still under Portuguese rule . However , once under the Chinese government , this has practically been cleaned up with regards to violent crime . As the world 's largest gambling destination , there is a lot of money laundering , prostitution , and drug trafficking that goes on - indeed , <URL> - in terms of crime directed towards a person , Macau is safe similar to most developed countries . I 've been to Macau a few times , and whether alone or as a couple , never felt that I was unsafe . Depending on which bits of Macau you 're interested in - and this would typically be <URL> , where most of the casinos are - streets are relatively busy most hours of the day because there are enough tourists / casino patrons around .
With the possible exception of Niagara ( Niagara Falls is a smaller , more tourist-oriented city , so the <URL> may be somewhat less comprehensive ) , all of the cities you listed should have extensive public transportation coverage . Most cities offer some form of unlimited travel pass , and in most cases a weekly pass is available . I think in general , you will find that the schedules of US public transportation will be a bit looser than you are used to in the UK ( at least from my limited experience of the London Underground ) . Pickup times can vary by 15 minutes or more in many cities without being considered unusual , especially for the bus lines . Generally speaking , you want to be a few minutes early ( 5 or more ) , just to be safe . Philadelphia , as Raj More mentioned , is serviced by SEPTA , and has a good combination of buses , subways and trains . The trains are generally reliable , and provide fast and easy access through the main parts of the city , operating out of 3 main hubs within the city , and provide access to most of the suburban areas . The subways provide good access throughout the city , to the areas not immediately serviced by the trains . The buses provide access to just about everywhere else , although they tend to run less frequently , particularly for the less popular destinations , and their schedules are more ... flexible . Chicago is served by the <URL> that is similar to Philadelphia 's SEPTA train system , providing access to most suburban areas . There is also an above-ground elevated train that provides good access within the city . I am less familiar with the bus system , since during the time I lived there , I took the elevated train ( " the El " ) when traveling within the city . New York 's subway is an excellent means of travel within the city . Edit : I missed Las Vegas , which deserves some special mention . Las Vegas may be a bit atypical , as , much like Niagara Falls , it is largely tourist-oriented . However , it diverges considerably from Niagara in attitude towards tourists . The lure of the free or cheap deal is frequently a means of attracting tourists to specific casinos , and this can frequently be exploited for traveling . Many of the hotels and casinos offer free shuttle services , plus there are a number of non-traditional public transportation methods available : <URL> .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
You are unlikley to be banned from the US for a short overstay where you did not breach other terms of your entry ( ie you did not work or comit any criminal acts ) . <URL> . I am not sure if it possible to do this retrospectivly however . Until ( and if ) you get a special dispensation for your health issues , you are however no longer eligible for use of the Visa Waiver Program ( the scheme that you used to enter the US , which is not the ESTA - ESTA is permission to travel to the US , not enter in to it ) . The US <URL> says under its requirements section : Previous Compliance and No Prior Visa Ineligibilities If you have had a U.S. visa before or previously traveled to the United States under the VWP or another status , you must have complied with the conditions of previous admissions to the United States , and you must not have previously been found ineligible for a U.S. visa . So unless you were given dispensation to stay , you have not previously complied with your visa waiver and will need to apply for a visa for future vists to the US . If you do this , you would be advised to explain and provide documentation for why you previously overstayed . You will certanly find out at this point if you have been banned . Nobody would have mentioned any of this on your departure from the US as the US does not have any exit immigration controls . You can however check your records for entries and exits under the VWP on <URL> . You could also try to contact the CBP directly to inquire if you are banned , I am not aware of any automated way to inquire ( and can find no obvious reference to visa/travel bans on their website ) .
A Semi-double bed is around 120 to 140cm ( 47 to 55in ) , depending on the hotel . As for it being suitable for two people , that depends on how close you are : I shared a semi-double bed at Mystays Asakusa-Bashi with a friend . If it had n't been my long time friend , I would have been very uncomfortable as you WILL end up touching/brushing the other person while sleeping , even if you do n't move much . Here 's an image of such a bed in Asakusa-Bashi . The size here is 120cm . <URL> If it 's your significant other , you should be fine .
The pros at <URL> ( Professional Windsurfers Association ) have collected together a bunch of tips on this very topic . Without quoting the whole thing , it 's worth noting some of the highlights : Anne-Marie : " Pack more bags , but lighter ones ... do n't put everything in one bag and make it mega-heavy ... they do n't like that these days . You can pack it in 1 or 2 bags , but be prepared to divide it up in 3 bags . If they are really strict about the weight , for example , you can always put some sails , a boom and a mast in a single board bag you have around one of your boards . Which stems from the fact that some airlines are going to be extra strict about weight , individual bag sizes ( sometimes due to union issues about the weight that staff have to lift ) and bulk . In all honesty , once you 've chosen an airline it 's worth calling them up and asking them for suggestions . They 'll have dealt with bags of all shapes and sizes , and may ask that you split it up , or pack with protection , or tell you to divide into 2 or 3 bags and pay for extra baggage .
There are numerous cameras along the D1 motorway , all of which are <URL> . There are indeed roadworks on the approach to Brno , but you should be fine outside the peak hours : Assuming you do n't drive between 07:00 -10:00 or 16:00 -19:00 on weekdays , I 'd take the D1 .
It should n't be any worse than usual - it might even be a bit light ; Larchmont is a ways north of NYC proper , so I would n't expect significant NYE related backups there . One thing that you should be wary about however , is drunk drivers ! There will probably be more of them on the road than usual that night , so be cautious and alert . ( Similarly , there will probably be an above average number of police along the highway looking to catch said drunk drivers - and they wo n't bee averse to writing you a citation for any other infraction which they might observe . Drive safely ! )
Those tips seem way too high . To put those figures in perspective , legal minimum wage in Haryana ( state next to Delhi and one of the richest in India ) is 5,800 rupees/month , and there are plenty of unskilled workers ( live-in maids etc ) getting paid much less than that . If you tip somebody Rs . 1500/day for a month , he 's making almost 10x that ! I 'd revise those figures to something like this , but please bear in mind it 's been a few years since I was in India and these may be on the low side by today 's standards . Local Guides : INR 200/day for a personal tour ( on top of the agreed fee and only if he 's done a good job , that is ; do n't fall into the common trap of " pay me what you like " and then being pestered for silly amounts at the end ! ) Drivers : < INR 50 for airport transfers INR 100/day if it 's just point A to B , wait around , and back again . Maybe 200 if he 's driving you around all day . If he 's overnighting , his accommodations should be accounted for in the base price ; again , be sure to sort this out beforehand . Hotel Porters : INR 50 per bag Housekeepers : Hotels often have central tip boxes that get shared out to everyone , and ~ 5 % of your bill is generous ; if you want to tip the housekeeper alone , maybe INR 50/night ?
You did not really specify where exactly you want to go , but since you mentioned Jungfrau region , I assume that you 're talking about <URL> . As Kathryn Hill already mentioned , it can get very cold up there . But this is not only the case in winter . Since it is around 3500 meters above sea level , it is cold year round up there . Even now in autumn , it can get as low as -20 ° C. And even in the highest summer season , the temperature might be around 0 ° C . So you should really be prepared for cold weather during the whole year . I would recommend that you particularly focus on wearing warm shoes that are water-proofed so that you wo n't get wet socks . Nothing is nastier than wet-socks when it 's cold out there . Furthermore , bring a warm cap with you and I 'm sure you wo n't regret if you also bring gloves with you . I personally would also wear a warm jacket , especially one that stops the wind . If it 's cold and windy , you will easily suffer from <URL> . Trousers are not so important if you do n't plan to lie or sit in the snow . In this case a normal jeans ( if you prefer with long underwear as Kathryn Hill mentioned ) is enough . Otherwise , I would recommend a waterproofed trouser . Additionally , you should not forget to wear sunglasses . If the weather is nice , the sun is very bright and since on Jungfraujoch , there is snow all year round , the sunlight will be reflected heavily . For the same reason , also make sure to bring your sunscreen with you . If you plan to walk in the snow , you could also borrow gaiters to prevent snow getting in your shoes . Concerning your medical question : There are <URL> on the Jungfraujoch homepage . The biggest danger is altitude sickness . Altitude sickness is caused by the decreasing air pressure and oxygen level in higher altitudes . However , normally , the first symptoms of altitude sickness will not be visible before 6-12 hours , so , normally , this should n't be a problem in your case . However , I would recommend to read the medical hints to be on the safe side .
When taking the ICE ( long-distance high speed train ) to FRA , there is something else to consider : The German Railways ( Deutsche Bahn ) . The trains can be quite delayed , which messes with your whole planning . I always plan another 30 minutes to an hour when travelling with them , especially if you are catching a long-haul flight . In your case , this would mean to take the train that arrives 3:15 before the flight . For example , on the route Köln HBf-Frankfurt Flughafen , 26,0 % of the 4667 trains were delayed . Average delay was 18,3 Minuten , but note that this is an average . I have travelled quite a lot on this route and I had everything from on time ( < 5 minute delay ) to 2 hours . Data source : <URL> Note that the data is from 2013 .
Buses seem to be quite reliable in terms of schedule in Colombia . There are plenty of departures and they usually go faster than the predicted time . I took several buses , usually in the evening and always arrived 30min to 1h ahead of schedule . The quoted time could be to account for traffic at other hours . For longer distances , there are overnight buses but guidebooks do not recommend them due to safety concerns . I have no experience to confirm or deny that . Finding schedules for Colombian buses is not so easy though , see m <URL> which covers the norther Altantic coast . For the highlights , see <URL> and <URL> . Some of these routes are overnight or even more .
I do n't have any references for this ( most rainfall charts do n't go down to the hour of the day ... ) , but yes , based on living in Singapore for years , there is a general pattern to rainfall in that area of the world . It goes like this : Morning : Clear blue skies . Noon : Clouds gathering . Afternoon : Sudden onset of violent lashing rain , often accompanied by thunder , lasting 30 to 60 minutes . Evening : Skies clear up again . So the TL ; DR would be that if you 're going to hitchhike in the rainy season , it would behoove you to get on the road as early as possible and try to finish up before the afternoon . Which is actually good advice when hitchhiking anywhere , lots of long rides in the morning and it gives you some buffer until darkness closes in . Now obviously this is only a rough pattern , and particularly in the rainy season , it 's fairly common to have spells of several days when it rains pretty much non-stop . But if it 's sunny when you wake up , hit the road and make the most of it .
I think I can comment on the weather in Berlin . I am not sure about the other place but I assume it wo n't be that different . In Berlin , it is hard to say what weather it will be ahead of time . June is usually a pleasant month ( at least for me , used to this climate ) , with temperatures between 15 and 25 degrees Celsius . The lower end usually requires jackets and the higher end is more t-shirt and shorts weather . In my experience , 25 degrees Celsius here feels very different to in a warmer climate . It has to do with the humidity . Long clothes feel unbearable with 25 degrees . Rain is slightly less common in this month than in the other months , but you 're likely to encounter some . Temperatures drop a lot during rain ( in June till around 15 degrees Celsius ) . Being from such a tropical country , you may find the rain unpleasantly cold . Berlin is a city , which makes the temperatures slightly ( 1-2 degrees ) higher than outside the city . The temperature difference is hardly noticeable , but the extra rain this causes is . My advice is to pack layered clothes , as the weather can change during the day as well . Layered clothes are very flexible too . If it is hot all the time , you 'll leave off your jackets bit if not , you just wear them . You 'd do well to take some rain clothes as well , like an umbrella ( if you do n't have one , many shops in Germany sell some ) .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
I know that some starwood hotels allow you to entirely skip the check-in process and simply walk up to your room and <URL> ; although this is n't anonymous . I also know of some hotels that allow you to check in as an alias ; but again , this is n't anonymous this is just an extra layer of privacy to prevent people from asking for you by simply calling the reception . It is also used as a layer of security by some . Truly anonymous clandestine checkin - where you simply open a door , walk up to the key rack , pick up your key and go off to your room , if there is such a place , I would definitely like to visit it . It may have been possible years ago , but this day of cross border terrorism and whatever else , data collection has become a sort of fever for any and all jurisdictions that hope to attract any kind of tourist dollars . You may have been able to do so previously , but I doubt you can today : Even if you use a pre-paid anonymous card , or have someone else pay for your room booking , you need to show proof of who you are when you arrive to collect the keys . The name on the reservation has to match the person asking for the key . This name can be an alias , but that is not the definition of anonymous . Further , it goes towards security and liability on the part of the hotel . God forbid there is some incident - say a fire or other such security issue , they need to know who is checked in where , who is accounted for , etc. . As mentioned by others , some jurisdictions mandate collection of hotel guest data as part of their overall security procedures/requirements - if they do n't they are breaking the law and may be subject to fines or worse suspension of their license to operate . It may be true that you are able to skip a lot of this formality if you use more informal means of stay ( like airbnb , hostels , or staying with friends/colleagues ; room sharing ) but I do n't think that was in scope of your question .
Most likely the tour operators are n't actually sold out as such , but the the permits are . When there are no permits available , no tour operator is going to be able to help you ! Permits are indeed required for all hikers on the on the " Inca Trail " , and for peak periods they often sell out months in advance as only ~ 200 hikers are allowed to set-out on the trail each day . According to <URL> , there are no permits available between April and early July . There are other options for hiking around Cusco , the most popular being the <URL> - although personally I 'd try and reschedule your trip at a time when you can get a permit for the Inca Trail if at all possible - it is an amazing experience !
<URL> These are the <URL> as defined by ICAO . Looking at <URL> you can see that the ISO 3166-1 codes are used both to identify the issuing country as well as the nationality of the passport holder . So your cousin 's passport seems to be correct . For completeness sake note that ARE is also the NATO 3-letter code for United Arab Emirates .
I was in Puerto Vallarta last week , and did some asking around , but with very little success . Cycling does n't seem to be popular there . The closest I found was some motorcycle and 4-wheeler rental places . I know it 's not quite the same experience , but at least you could be " out in nature " on some wheels ... Also , in my experience in other parts of Mexico , mountain biking just is n't popular . Hiking is , to a degree , and cross-country biking . But I 've never seen or heard of mountain biking , per se . And I 've never seen any trails suitable for mountain biking ( but maybe they 're kept at great distance from the hiking trails where I 've been ... shrug ) Here are a couple places I found : Harley Davidson Rentals 322-118-8800 322 -185 -1984 On the corner of Avenida México &amp; Calle Nicaragua Cool Rentals &amp; Cool Tours 322-223-3239 On Avenida México between Calle Honduras and Calle Panamá Avenida México is the main street that runs one-way north to south through the main part of Puerto Vallarta , so both of these places should be easy to find . They were both closed when I went by , so I was not able to go in and ask for any details or prices . Likewise , I can not make any actual recommendations . I hope this is of some use to you , even though it 's not related to bicycles directly . Have fun in Puerto Vallarta !
end question
start question
Visiting Japan , what foreign proofs of ID are acceptable ( for non-official purposes ) ?
Legally speaking , there 's only one legal ID for foreigners in Japan : your passport . ( Unless you 're a long-term resident of Japan , in which case your <URL> is also OK , but these are n't available to tourists . ) That said , ID checks are pretty rare and in practice you can likely get away with a laminated photocopy of your passport 's photo page . Do bear in mind that , if the police decide this is n't good enough , they can and will detain you until somebody else can go get your actual passport and bring it up the police station , which can be quite a hassle to arrange . For non-police ID use : Nightclubs will insist on your passport , full stop . ( Again , photocopy may or may not work . ) Hotels will insist on your passport . However , this can be trivially worked around by claiming to live in Japan and registering with a Japanese address , in which case <URL> . ( No , that does n't make any sense to me either , and not all hotels are aware of this . ) In most convenience stores , you need to self-certify that you 've of age to buy alcohol , but there 's essentially no enforcement beyond this and the staff generally are not paid enough to care . Same goes for most restaurants etc. . Alcohol and tobacco vending machines may require local " alcohol cards " ( 酒カード ) or the nationwide <URL> respectively .
Those spots are called ' Liftershalte ' in Dutch , Wikipedia has a list : <URL> Do n't expect too much there are only 6 of those , it 's a bit of a gimmick more then anything else .
As a French citizen , one does not need a visa to stay in Malaysia up to 3 months ( 90 days I suppose , the exact number of days is not specified on the website for some reason ) . See the <URL> for further details . See also the <URL> - although you should always triple check what is mentioned here with what official authorities say .
<URL> If you are a NEXUS member or eligible Global Entry or SENTRI member , enter your membership number ( PASS ID ) in the " Known Traveler Number " field when booking reservations , or enter it into your frequent flyer profile with the airline . Your membership number is also located on the back of your Trusted Traveler card in the upper-left corner . You can still do this even if you had another previously .
Ships are registered under foreign flags for a variety of reasons . labour laws . Many countries where shipping firms are at home have laws that make hiring staff much more expensive than would be the case in say Liberia . Work conditions , salaries , etc. would make them uncompetitive . appearances . A Taiwanese firm wishing to do business with mainland China would want to do so through a front company in a third country . In fact for a long time ( maybe still ) it was illegal for companies doing business in Taiwan to do business in mainland China by PRC law . This caused many airlines to create subsidiaries to handle traffic to one or the other to circumvent this . as you fear , an easy way to get out from under safety and environmental regulations . But that 's probably a minor reason as many nations enforce those on any vessel docking in their ports ( or even transiting their waters ) , not just on ships registered there .
The short answer is no , you do n't need it . The long answer is that all Japanese have been vaccinated for it since the 1960s and statistical incidence is down to background noise levels : <URL> figures less than one case per year since the 1990s . So unless you 're planning on spending a lot of time in rural pig farms , it 's not worth worrying about . The CDC is , as ever , more cautious , but even they state that " <URL> " . The Australian Dep ' t of Health goes a bit further , stating that " the risk of travellers in Asia acquiring JE is extremely low " and only <URL> for " travellers spending 1 month or more in rural areas of Asia " ( unless there are significant other risk factors ) . All that said , the vaccine is reasonably effective and provides lifetime protection . So if money and needles are n't a concern and ( probably more importantly ) you plan on traveling in places where the disease is more common , like Vietnam or Indonesia , you might as well go for it .
This is the official website where you can get all the informations you asked for ( in english as well ) : <URL> Short summary : There are no restrictions for non-german citizens . You can participate in a guided tour and you can even watch a debate from the tribune of the reichstag for ~ 1 hour . You need a reservation for that , but you can do this online ( see the link above ) . You need a reservation too , if you want to go to the dome ( " kuppel " ) and the roofgarden ( " dachterrasse " ) , but this is included in some of the offers available I believe . You may also visit a congressman with a group of > 10 visitors , but you will need an early reservation for this .
I 'll try to answer on the assumption that you 're asking mostly about the relative practicality of a day trip , rather than asking for a sort of value judgment on the merits of an overnight . You can see a number of popular tourist destinations on a day trip to Kamakura from Tokyo . Additionally , it 's a somewhat sleepy city that , in comparison to much of Tokyo or Yokohama , as temples and shrines close to the public around sunset and retail mostly sort of shuts down around 5:30 -6 pm or so , and unless you 're staying for an unusually late dinner and drinks sort of thing , it 's perfectly easy to get back to nearly anywhere in Tokyo as long as you leave by 10pm or so . Train frequency decreases later in the evening , and that 's the main risk you have to getting back to your hotel . If you plan ahead or use the mobile version of <URL> web site , that should n't be a big problem . The primary benefit of an overnight is that it simply is n't practical to see more than two or three of the major shrines/temples in a single day . Some of the best known ones , like the Daibutsu at Kōtoku-in , can be a pretty substantial walk from other major destinations , like Hachimangu Shrine , so if you have a long list of places you 'd like to see and you 're not motivated to navigate local buses or take taxis to reduce your travel time , or if it happens to be a busy tourist season or pilgrimage season with lots of lines , you might lose a lot of time to travel and waiting . If you have lots of places you want to see , and you want to navigate the little shops selling lacquerware and leather goods and so on that Kamakura is fairly well known for , allow time for lunch and snacks , and stop impromptu at whatever sights you stumble on without advance planning , it can be nice to have the advantages of an early morning after an overnight stay so that you do n't have to push yourself too hard .
In a nutshell Only base fare tickets allow stopovers ( 途中下車 , tochū gesha ) ; tickets for additional fees such as limited express fees and seat reservation fees do not . In addition , only base fare tickets for trips of over 100 kilometers allow stopovers . However , base fare tickets for travel within one of <URL> ( Tokyo , Osaka , Fukuoka , Niigata , Sendai ) do not allow stopovers , regardless of the length of the trip . The ticket must be used within its validity period ; when the validity period of a ticket is over , it ceases to be valid regardless of whether you have reached your final destination . ( However it is possible to obtain a refund for the unused section if it is over 100 kilometers , minus a handling fee of 220 yen . ) Backtracking is strictly not allowed , even by just one station . You must always travel in the same direction . Example Suppose I am in Tokyo and i want to go to Hiroshima . However , I would also like to spend some time in Kyoto on the way . Because Tokyo to Hiroshima is 894 kilometers , a base fare ticket will allow stopovers , and moreover it will be valid for six days , so I can spend at most five nights in Kyoto . The first thing I do when leaving Tokyo on day 1 is buy a base fare ticket from Tokyo to Hiroshima , which costs 11,660 yen . Also , because Tokyo to Kyoto is a long trip , I decide to take the Shinkansen , so I buy a separate ticket to pay the additional Shinkansen fees . I can buy an unreserved , reserved , or Green ticket ; say I buy an unreserved one , it 's 4,870 yen . When entering the Shinkansen gates at Tokyo station , I insert both tickets together , and likewise when exiting at Kyoto . Upon exit at Kyoto , my base fare ticket is returned . I do not use it again until leaving Kyoto for Hiroshima on day 6 . ( If I do any JR travel while in Kyoto , I buy individual tickets or use an IC card . ) When leaving Kyoto on day 6 , I again buy an unreserved Shinkansen ticket to Hiroshima , which costs 4,090 yen . I again use both tickets to enter the ticket gates in Kyoto . Upon exit at Hiroshima , since my trip is now over , both tickets are retained . I paid a total of 20,620 yen . Had I bought Tokyo-Kyoto and Kyoto-Hiroshima tickets separately , I would have paid 23,650 yen , so I saved over 3,000 yen , the price of a very good meal or a very cheap hotel night . This example illustrates the basic principle : the base fare for an entire trip ( here , Tokyo to Hiroshima ) can be paid all at once , within some constraints , whereas any additional fees must be paid on a per-train basis . When are additional fees necessary ? A base fare ticket alone allows travel on local ( 普通 ) and rapid ( 快速 ) trains , in ordinary class and on non-reserved seats . In all other cases , additional fees are required : On express ( 急行 ) and limited express ( 特急 ) trains , including Shinkansens and the overnight Sunrise Seto/Izumo , for all seats . However , no additional fees are required for ordinary non-reserved seats between Miyazaki and Miyazaki Airport , between Aomori and Shin-Aomori , and between Shin-Yubari and Shintoku . On reserved and Green seats in local and rapid trains . Keep in mind that some rapid trains are <URL> . How to buy ? Doing this requires to be able to buy base fare tickets and additional fee tickets separately , which is usually done at <URL> , but can also be done at ticket machines and online . In fact , JR East 's English reservation service issues reserved seat tickets only , and it is always necessary to pay for the base fare separately ( possibly with a rail pass ) . JR Hokkaido 's English service , however , does not allow this . Some useful words at the ticket office : Base fare ticket : 乗車券 ( jōshaken ) Shinkansen : 新幹線 Limited express ticket : 特急券 ( tokkyūken ) Non-reserved seat : 自由席 ( jiyūseki ) Reserved seat : 指定席 ( shiteiseki ) Green seat : グリーン席 ( gurīnseki ) GranClass seat : グランクラス席 ( gurankurasuseki ) Reserved seat ticket : 指定席券 ( shiteisekiken ) " Only " : のみ ( nomi ) Today : 今日 ( kyō ) Tomorrow : 明日 ( ashita ) April 20 : ４月２０日 , or just 4/20 or 4.20 ( change accordingly ) In order to describe the desired ticket ( s ) efficiently , I find it useful to make a quick diagram on the notes application of my phone . For example for the Tokyo-Kyoto-Hiroshima itinerary above , if I only want to buy the Tokyo-Kyoto Shinkansen ticket at Tokyo station together with the base fare ticket , I do the following ( station names can also be written in English ) . To buy the Kyoto-Hiroshima Shinkansen ticket at Kyoto , proceed normally but mention that you want to buy the limited express ticket only ( 特急券のみ ) . For unreserved seats , only the day of usage is necessary , and not the departure time of a particular train : unreserved seat tickets are valid for one day , and can be used on any train on that day . Validity period of base fare tickets The validity period of a base fare ticket is a function of the distance traveled , as shown for example by <URL> in the headers section of a displayed route in the search results page . Non-integer distances are always rounded up . The validity period of
If the Canadian license is not sufficient , you fall into " secondary identification " territory , where you should submit as many pieces of identification as possible . So the obvious thing to do is what you plan : bring everything you can . Show the license first . One site I found said listed " fully valid " US passport as an acceptable proof of identity while another said it could be expired , but must have been issued in the last 15 years . From this I conclude that the quality of the information in these lists is low . This is another reason to bring as much proof of your identity as possible . It is better to be safe than sorry .
<URL> Non-Muslims are strictly prohibited from entering the city of Mecca . Road signs to guide non-Muslims are provided . The minimum penalty is deportation from the country . Documentation will be checked upon entry and anyone not showing proof of being Muslim will be refused entry . As a solitary exception , the Mecca bus terminal ( outside city limits ) is open to all . More : If you remain on the main highway , there is a police checkpoint just after the exit , where non-Muslims are kept out of the holy city . Actually this is decision of Allah and he stated in Quran : " Oh you who believe ! Truly the idolaters are unclean ; so let them not , after this year , approach the Sacred Mosque "
The vast majority of public baths are separated by gender , so although mixed baths still exist , you 're unlikely to find one by chance . No swimsuit ( or anything else ) is normally allowed , as the Japanese consider that it would spoil the water ( not even your hair may touch the water , in particular ) . Again , some special places may allow swimsuits for some reason or other , but you 'd have to specifically look for them . Other than that , the etiquette is pretty much the same as anywhere else in Japan : be discreet . No running , no shouting , etc. . Just mimic the people around you and you will be fine . Edited to add : Maybe this bears emphasis : there is no special rule for foreign women ( or men ) . Even though there is the usual tolerance for some amount of " un-Japanese " behaviour , it does n't go so far as to allow you to wear your swimsuit . You can consider it akin to wearing shoes inside houses or shrines/temples .
I believe if I book online and travelling to another Schengen country , I would not need to show ID and only the boarding ticket ? That depends on the airline 's policy ( and to some degree , the gate agent 's knowledge of that policy ) . The EU no longer requires that airlines check for their passengers ' identification so long as they do not check in luggage . Many airlines ( SAS , Norwegian ) do not care and do not check in line with regulation . Ryanair , however , systematically checks . I regularly fly between Sweden where I live , the Netherlands , Germany , Spain , and Italy and I never have to show my ID . But if the airline does ask ... However , as a whole , being in a different country without an ID is not recommended and as Alexander points out , some countries such as Spain and France do require you carry some form of identification at all times e.g. national id card or driver 's license
Travel Insurance is not a commodity , and can vary widely between companies . You 'll usually be offered insurance at the same time as booking a holiday , but can arrange separately - here 's what you need to check out ; Is Your Destination Covered ? It sounds obvious , but policies vary and if you do n't know what you 're looking for , they can be confusing . Some providers , for example , will include countries such as Turkey and Egypt under European cover , while others wo n't . Worldwide cover , meanwhile , does n't always include the USA , Canada and the Caribbean -- so ensure your policy does if you 're heading out that way . Also , check the insurance will cover you for the duration of your whole stay When selecting which travel insurance policy to go for , it 's important to check how many consecutive days abroad you 'll be covered for . Limits vary depending on the provider , and if you go over this limit , even if it 's only by a day , you will invalidate your insurance . Check for limits After all , the last thing you want is to make a claim on your travel insurance only to find you 're not covered for what you had lost . Work out exactly what you 're bringing with you to ensure you have the correct amount of cover -- we recommend that you have at least the following . # 1,500 baggage cover # 250 to cover lost cash # 3,000 cancellation cover -- or enough to cover the total cost of your holiday <URL> Other things to bear in mind include ; When can I actually claim and how ? Check the documents carefully , do n't get caught out . Is your medical condition covered under a policy ? Also . do n't lie about medical conditions - this will void the policy . ALWAYS READ THE SMALLPRINT !!! Thus could contain the most important information for you . Again , do n't get caught out . The most important part has to be about Claiming . Make sure you are certain that you have enough amount of cover and know how to claim if necessary . The process is n't particularly difficult , as long as you do n't fall in any traps .
Right , with a bit of research , I 've put the following together . Modern Japanese mobile phones ( 携帯電話 keitai denwa or just keitai ) tend to operate on unique cellular standards not always compatible with the rest of the world . For instance , most Japanese 2G mobile phones operate on the Personal Digital Cellular ( PDC ) standard , which was developed and is used exclusively in Japan . In a nutshell : A lot of 2G phones ( GSM , etc ) from the rest of the world do not work in Japan . Even Quad-band GSM phones are useless . As AU switches its CDMA network to " new " 800MHz ( used in the rest of the world ) , foreign CDMA phones will be able to be used in Japan for roaming purposes . However , the switchover is still in progress , so only use this if staying in Tokyo or Osaka . 3G phones using the UMTS/WCDMA2100 standard and equipped with a 3G SIM card will most likely work . If your phone is up to spec , double-check with your carrier if they have a roaming agreement with either SoftBank or NTT DoCoMo . Coverage is generally excellent , unless you are heading to some remote mountainous areas . If you have no 3G phone but still have a 3G-compatible SIM card , you can rent a 3G phone in Japan and slot in your card , allowing you to keep your home phone number in Japan . Carrier restrictions may apply : for instance , O2-UK ( operating in Japan via NTT DoCoMo ) requires you to dial 111 # , wait for a callback ; then , dial the actual number you wish to connect . Be sure to double-check with your network provider before departing . GSM-only SIMs are issued by providers that do n't have their own 3G network . If your home operator have no 3G network , or if you got your phone before their 3G network was introduced , this may apply to you . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . USIM cards are issued by providers that have a 3G network or plan to introduce one . Any European who got their SIM card after 2003 has one of these . Call and ask your operator if their SIM cards are USIM compatible . Data roaming works as well ( subject to the above restrictions ) , allowing you to use wireless internet on your phone ( although it can be expensive ! ) . Google Maps on your phone can be invaluable ( although note that tower positioning does not work ) . Short visits For a short visit , your cheapest option for mobile access is to rent a phone . A number of companies provide this service . Rental rates and call charges vary , the best one can depend on how long you are renting and how much you will call . Beware of " free " rental as there is a catch : usually , there are very high call charges . Incoming calls are free in Japan . Mobal Communications Inc. . Free rental ( meaning there is no expense unless you actually call someone ) . ¥ 240/min domestic and international . Very expensive ( around $ 3 ) - have people call you instead , since incoming calls are free . Be careful not to lose the phone or the charger as the company charges horrendous amounts . Rentafone Japan ¥ 3,900 up to one week , then ¥ 300/day . Shipping included . ¥ 35/min ~ domestic . USA ¥ 45/min . ¥ 300 for unlimited emailing . You can also use your SIM in the phones . Offers customers a choice of phones . Japan Mobile Rental ¥ 1,200 per day for unlimited broadband internet Connect up to 5 devices Install Skype on your PC or phone and take advantage of cheap international calling rates Use in virtually any place in Japan Pick-up at our Narita or Kansai Airport counters , or at your hotel . SoftBank Global Rental ¥ 250/day ; SIM card : ¥ 105/day . * ¥ 105/min domestic . USA ¥ 105/min . Incoming calls are free . iPhone SIM Rental ( 3GS/4 ) is available . ¥ 1,500 per day for iPhone unlimited data communications . MyJapanPhone " Free rental " for the first week , but you must pay for shipping at rather high rates working out at at least $ 30 . After that $ 2/day . $ 0.70 / min domestic . USA $ 0.90 / min . Incoming calls are free . Extra $ 10 use email . Service tax of 15 % added to final bill . Run from the US by the people who run Panda Phone ( Chinese phone rental ) . Telecom Square ¥ 525/day . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 800-1800 if you want the phone delivered . . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 100/min ( daytime ) . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . go mobile ¥ 2,995 / week with 15 free minutes , plus ¥ 1,000 for shipping . ¥ 85/min domestic . International ¥ 100/min . Incoming calls are free . Final credit card charge can be up to 2 months after return . Inphonix ¥ 315/day ( rental fee waived for ANA passengers ) . Extra shipping charge of ¥ 1,575 if you want the phone delivered . ¥ 120/min domestic . International ¥ 150/min . Incoming calls are free . ¥ 315 extra if you want to know the phone number in advance . Air 's ¥ 200/day ¥ 100/min domestic ( NO international calls ) or ¥ 160/min omestic and international . Incoming calls are free . Mobile Phone Japan ¥ 2,900 up to one week / ¥ 5,600 up to two weeks . Shipping included . ¥ 90/min domestic . USA ¥ 78/min . Prepaid phones - you need to buy a top-up car
The issue is not not reached a point yet where there is a proposed legislation . The problem with liquid screening is highlighted in the Commission 's latest <URL> , published about a year ago : At the end of November 2014 , the Commission received the results of an additional study assessing a possible second phase for lifting of the liquid restrictions . This study was carried out by the consultant ICF International . It assessed the possibility of permitting passengers to carry bottled water through a series of airport trials and also checked the findings of the previous study , in relation to the operational impact of the first phase . Also , this study concluded that the first phase had no negative operational impact on EU airports , even during the summer peak of operations at the EU airports involved in this study . It however also concluded that there may be a significant impact on throughput and cost for EU airports should the restrictions be further lifted to permit passengers to also carry bottled water . This is mainly due to the expected high number of bottles that would need to be screened and which would require significantly more liquids screening equipment . The outcome of this study led the Commission , in concertation with Member States , stakeholders and its international partners , to postpone the introduction of the second phase of lifting the liquid restrictions . That being said , the issue is still being worked on . Trials are conducted at various airports to test the process . These are usually not publicly announced , with the exception of <URL> where trials were conducted in the last two months : Through this project Malta International Airport is contributing towards enhancing the passenger experience for travellers within the EU . The key participant airports for this project are Amsterdam Schiphol Airport , Budapest International Airport , Alicante International Airport , Dublin International Airport , and Malta International Airport . The airport team has already conducted some initial trials , to establish the ideal testing environment . With the technology and equipment now available for LAGs to be screened , MIA 's security team will be determining best practices for this new screening procedure whilst maintaining the requirements of the current EU legislation . The results from the participant airports will be analysed by the European Commission , with a view to implement new guidelines on LAGs . When this exercise is taking place , passengers who may , in special circumstances , be carrying LAGs of more than 100ml will be subjected to further screening . O&amp;I Consulting , the company which conducts these trials for the European Commission , currently carries out an <URL> on that issue .
There is no nationally , or even locally mandated standard . I 've certainly seen friends have no issues using both Passports and Drivers Licenses from their home country . I 've also seen people have issues - especially when their ID is written in a non-latin script , or when they have a DOB which can be misread by using a non-American date ordering scheme , ( i.e. someone born on August the 10th , 1992 , would have their BOD listed as 8/10/92 here in the states , and would be of legal drinking age . If their ID instead reads 10/8/92 a not particularly sharp waiter may give you a hard time - admittedly , an extreme edge case . ) Realistically , there 's no single answer that can be provided here however , because there is no standard for what 's accepted . At the end of the day , the acceptability of your proof of age is up to the merchant with whom you do business to evaluate . You 'll have an easier time in more cosmopolitan cities like New York , but realistically , you ca n't do much better than your Passport , and I 've almost never seen an issue with one .
That refers specifically to the Australian Document of Identity , which is a complicated and obscure legal fudge primarily intended to let people travel to Norfolk Island without a passport : <URL> Norfolk Island is an Australian territory that , until very recently , was largely self-governing and excluded from most Australian taxes and benefits . The government needed a way to track people traveling there , but could n't insist on a passport ( since it 's not a foreign country ) , hence the DOI .
I do n't know about other places , but when I visited Istanbul a few years ago I had the opportunity of seeing a ceremony of Whirling Dervishes in the former train station of Sirkeci ( where the Orient Express used to end its journey ) . It is held in the evening , I think more than once a week ( but I was there in late December , so perhaps it was more frequent than in other periods of the year ) . The tickets could be bought at the ticket office in the train station . I do n't know whether you are deeply interested in Sufi philosophy and traditions or if you are just curious ( the way we were ) ; if the latter holds , you may have a look at <URL> or even <URL> . If you are interested in getting in closer contact with this group , you may want to visit <URL> .
Japanese schools differ by area . In Hokkaido , the long winter means longer winter holidays . Opposite applies in the south . Public holidays are universal though , inc Golden Week . From my experience holidays are usually end Mar / start April , August and mid / end Dec to early January . New school year starts in April .
end question
start question
Is having multiple air travel loyalty programs possible ?
There is no point to opening an account if you are not going to use it . Depending on the rules of the program , your points may expire in as little as a year , and your account may be closed as dormant if there is no activity . With that in mind , it is perfectly fine to belong to more than one loyalty program , even within the same alliance , regardless of how often you use them . Cathay Pacific ( Asia Miles ) and Air France ( Flying Blue ) are not partners , and there is no way for you to earn mileage on a Cathay Pacific flight in your Flying Blue account . It would thus be appropriate to join a program where you can earn miles . Note that it does not necessarily have to be Asia Miles . Depending on your future travel and earning/redemption patterns it might be better to collect Avios in British Airways ' Executive Club , or AAdvantage miles from American Airlines . In general , however , it is to your advantage to concentrate earning in a handful of preferred programs , one for each carrier ( whether air or ground ) you use most often , but not more than one for each airline alliance . Remember , frequent flyer miles are not a currency . They can not usually be transferred from one program to another without extremely drastic devaluations through third parties , and you can not usually combine points from multiple programs for a single redemption . With extremely rare exceptions , you can only accrue in a single program at a time , so you would want to apply them where they are most valuable . Concentrating your earning so accelerates the accumulation of miles both for elite level qualification and for redemption . For more infrequent travelers , it helps keep the account active , perhaps reducing the risk that the account will go dormant and the miles be forfeited .
Turns out , it is now possible , thanks to a post I found on <URL> . A sample itinerary , that they provide , beginning in London : London to Barcelona on Vueling Barcelona to Casablanca on Vueling Casablanca to Istanbul on Air Arabia Maroc Istanbul to Dubai on Flydubai Dubai to Kathmandu on Flydubai Kathmandu to Kuala Lumpur on Air Asia X Kuala Lumpur to Melbourne on Air Asia X Melbourne to Honolulu on Jetstar Honolulu to Vancouver on Westjet Vancouver to Cancun on Westjet Cancun to Mexico City on Interjet Mexico City to Bogota on Interjet Bogota to Fort Lauderdale on Spirit Airways Fort Lauderdale to Oslo on Norwegian Air Shuttle Oslo to London on Norwegian Air Shuttle Of course there are complications in doing so , as RTW tickets tend to imply a long trip , and LCCs often re-do their routes and cancel/change itineraries .
It almost certainly depends on the ticket , but unless it 's a fully flexible ticket , I doubt you can do this cheaply , or possibly at all . The ticket is most likely a ticket from Tokyo to Rio ; the airline treats the connection as incidental . In fact , in practice they could even send you a different route ( not via LA ) if it made sense to do so on the day ( weather etc. ) . In most cases you are n't allowed to break your journey up , therefore , as that would be a different trip . The only way you 'll know for sure is to call the airline and ask , but if your tickets are non-refundable , prepare to spend a lot of money to make this change .
Check out <URL> . Freagle is like couchsurfing , instead of your couch you can offer your backyard , barn ... It 's not wild camping per se but it is trying to fill the gap between the <URL> wild camping and the normal camp site . And indeed , not so many hosts available . Still worth a try . My own experience with wild camping in Germany is positive if you keep simple rules in mind . Do n't camp in a bigger group Do n't campfire Do n't litter Keep yourself out of sight Do n't stay more than one night Do n't camp in a natural reserve ( from comments : thanks @amon ) Even if you get " caught " by a ranger or police they will ask you to move or make you pay a little fine . It is more or less a trivial offence in my opinion .
I think your best bet is to just bring cash in Reals and buy a " money card " in Thailand . You would either have to convert the currency to Baht first , or you might be able to just buy the card from the place you exchange ( depending on where you exchange , if at a bank , they likely would have some kind of card you could get ) . You may also want to explore credit card options . Capital One has the Venture cards which charge no fees for international usage , you just use the card like normal and it automatically converts the transaction by itself , and you do n't pay anything extra other than the cost of the thing you bought . I 'm not sure if this specific card is available to Brazilians , but if you look around you can probably find something similar . I have used this on a few trips to Europe and avoided even the exchange fees because I did n't even have to change cash , I just bought something for 10 Euros and it charged my card $ 13.30 ( current exchange rate ) .
Travelling internationally without any travel document is between very difficult and impossible depending on the details . If you need to leave the Schengen area and re-enter , you definitely need a passport . You would in all likelihood be refused boarding by the airline or blocked from leaving the Schengen area by the border guards . If you are travelling within the Schengen area and have a residence card , it might still be possible in practice even if it 's not explicitly allowed . If you have nothing at all , you would probably still be able to physically cross the border but could get in serious trouble if you are found in another country with no document establishing your status . Even travelling in France is not without risk . Technically , you are supposed <URL> ( i.e. show your visa ) at any time if the police asks . If you do n't have your passport on you , they could detain you for some time to check your status . Obviously , the requirement to surrender your passport for a visa application puts you in an awkward situation but there is no easy way around that .
I 'm in Tbilisi for the past few days , so could check it here . I asked around in a few currency exchange places - and none of them accept foreign coins , lira or otherwise . One of the places suggested that TBC bank branches may be able to exchange coins , however I did n't manage to get to a bank . My advice would be to take the lira coins with you and head straight for a bank branch . While the exchange rate is n't as favourable as in independent exchange centres , at least you may stand a better chance .
I spent 47 days in Guatemala in 2009 as a backpacker and I did not have any problems even while taking local buses in Guatemala City and walking around there quite a bit . However I did hear from tourists who were victims of petty crime and you also see ' security guards ' with machine guns all over the place . Usually next to banks and more expensive shops . I also heard that richer local families still only go out with security guards . It 's all a bit different if you are going with your family , especially with young kids . It is hard for me as an experienced single traveler to say how a family would be treated there . Just going to the top tourist attractions does not help , on the contrary , place like Antigua have more petty crime than other similar sized towns just because there are so many tourists there . Many local tourist offices just sell tours that are then organized by other agencies . I 've heard some horror stories from people who did book tours . So my advice would be to find other tourists who just came back from the tour you are planning to do and then ask them about their experience . So the question remains : ' Would I go with my kids ? ' Maybe not with a six month old , wait five years . Your kids will enjoy it more and the security situation is likely to be better too .
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
I found the following map ( Source : <URL> ) The map is from a charter company , which have suggested routes on their website . One mentions a connection from <URL> . From Ghent on there a multiple possibilities .
I do n't have a Hostelworld membership , but I emailed them to see what the official stance is ( without anyone risking getting their card invalidated ) . From Louise Clark on the customer service team : Thanks for your email . Gold Cards are registered to one email address so all bookings made with that address will be automatically discounted . You can also enter the Gold Card number when using a different email address and the discount will still apply . This is not limited to a certain number of email addresses . So it looks like the answer is : enter in the membership number on as many bookings as you 'd like from as many email addresses you 'd like . :) Happy traveling !
Yes , they are both members of the Star Alliance . So , for being gold on USAirways , you are automatically " Star Gold , " across the entire Star Alliance network . The benefit of first class upgrades ( unfortunately ) is NOT one that you will be able to get when flying on Continental . That being said , most other benefits are reciprocal . For example , priority boarding ? Yup ! Lounge access ( when flying internationally ) ? Yup ! Free checked bag with a higher weight limit ? Yup ! The next question is about miles . Because they are both in the Star Alliance , you can redeem your USAirways miles for flights on Continental , or any of the other 26 + partners they have . Same goes for anyone with Continental miles - they could redeem for flights on USAirways or any of the other 26 + partners as well . So , the key is to not have a few thousand with CO and a few thousand with US . If you 're flying on Continental OR USAirways , make sure you earn miles on USAirways . It will not only help you keep your elite status , but will help you earn miles to later use on partner flights . Be careful though ... Not all flights will earn 100 % of the miles you actually fly . For a full list of which " fares " will earn you miles , check out <URL> . It shows which Continental flights you will be able to earn USAirways miles on . For US ' other partners , <URL> is the link you want to check to ensure you can earn miles . It will show you ALL of their airline partners and which flights you can earn miles on .
Depends on what you call " going Robinson Crusoe " . If it is about spending time alone on an uninhabited island , I guess the answer is " Sure " . I have met various people who did so , when they were sailing through the Caribbean . The options to do so is not limited to the Bahamas alone . I was told that it is relatively cheap to buy a yacht in that area from European sailors who after crossing the atlantic do n't feel the urge to experience yet again the gulf of Biscay . Those boats are typically quite worn out , which would add a bit to the Robinson Crusoe experience . So if it is only about being alone on a deserted island , just buy one of these boats and sail away . If " going Robinson Crusoe " , however means being lost for years , the fact that I have met various people who did spent time alone on an uninhabited island makes it impossible . Spending time on an island without being noticed by civilization for an extended period of time , is simply impossible given the number of people sailing the Caribbean . these days . PS . Robinson crusoe was stranded : " Who lived Eight and Twenty Years , all alone in an un-inhabited Island on the Coast of America , near the Mouth of the Great River of Oroonoque " . The island is situated in front of the Guyana 's . There are quite some small islands over there , of which <URL> . Even devil 's island is not visible on <URL> . I have the impression that your chances on getting lost unnoticed in that area is higher then in the Bahamas . " Devil 's island is ofcourse not a good choice , but there are more of these small islands .
I took the novel step of calling Air New Zealand , and they said the flight was booked directly through them even though he used ( which was why I was reluctant to call them in the first place ) the flight is connecting and he will be issued tickets and have his bag checked through from his point of departure .
No , it is n't part of any of the big hotel chains . That 's partly why it 's so cheap . That means no credit to any loyalty programs you might be a member of , sorry . Travelodge UK does n't have its own loyalty program either . All they have is <URL> .
A multiple-entry tourist visa allows you to enter and stay for 90 days multiple times , until the visa expires . There is usually a minimum waiting time between exit and re-entry , and that is different from country to country . For example , <URL> ; see also <URL> . I have found <URL> , but to be safe , your friend should call the <URL> to confirm .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
There have been several studies looking into health risks associated with air travel , though often , it 's the pilots who are the focus of the investigation . A large European study , <URL> , finds in accordance with others that there is a higher incidence of skin cancer in cockpit crews . This has also been observed for cabin crews . However , they do not find a dose-response , i.e. they can not demonstrate that flying more increases skin cancer risk , which is what you 'd expect if it was radiation exposure during the flight that was causing cancer . Consequently , it is quite possible that it 's higher exposure to UV light in their time off work that puts cockpit and cabin crews at a higher risk for skin cancer compared to the rest of the population . In other words <URL> is overly sensationalist . Interestingly , mortality from several other causes is lower in cockpit crews , possibly due to selection effects , i.e. you need to be fit and healthy to get the job , and you make sufficent money to afford good health care : Our study confirms the marked cardiovascular mortality reduction of cockpit crew as compared to the general population . Obviously only very healthy persons are recruited into the profession , and continuous medical supervision may play a role in controlling cardiovascular risk factors . Analyses of mortality by age show that low mortality persists even after retirement . As seen in ESCAPE [ = the name of the study ] subcohorts and independent studies published previously , aircraft accidents , whether private or occupational cause a substantial proportion of deaths especially among younger cockpit crew . Pilots in early phases of their flight career seem to carry the highest risk of accidental death in aviation . Mortality from motor vehicle and other accidents was low . In summary , there may be a higher risk of skin ( and , apparently , breast ) cancer , though staying away from tanning studios and the beach in your spare time possibly alleviates that . What about non-fatal health risks ? Several potential issues come to mind : Exposure to pathogens , stress , and high noise levels . Exposure to pathogens is of course a concern in an enclosed space , and there are reports of infections spreading on planes <URL> . When levels of <URL> and <URL> have been measured , it was found that they were highest during on/off boarding , when passengers were moving around and when AC was running on anciliary power . In other words , AC on modern aircraft is doing a good job of filtering the air . Coincidentially , there has been a case study reporting rapid spread of the flu when the AC was out of order ( see the above-linked pdf ) . In sum : Wash your hands frequently , do n't exchange bodily fluid with passengers , and you should do fine , as long as the ventilation system is running . Stress is a risk factor associated with many physical and mental health related problems . There are indeed stress symptoms , such as fatigue , headache , concentration difficulties , or gastrointestinal problems reported in <URL> , though they do not compare stress level/symptoms to the general population . Anyway , not surprisingly , stress levels are lower the higher up on the ladder you are in the hierarchy . Also , the social network helps a lot to mitigate effects of stress . In sum : be the boss , and relax with friends and family , and you 'll do fine . Noise could also be a problem - it is loud on the airplane due to the engine noise . <URL> , on probably the same Swedish airline as above , reports no ill effects of noise exposure , however . Overall , it appears that even chronic air travel leads to little long-term damage . Have a good flight ! If you want to keep up-to-date on research done in the US regarding health risks for flight crews , you can check out <URL> .
end question
start question
Free Wi-Fi / available power / cashless food facilities in LAX airport ?
LAX now offers <URL> throughout the airport , along with a relatively cheap upgrade for ' premium ' connection speeds . Credit cards are accepted at most ( all ? ) shops and restaurants , and power outlets can be found around the airport . Expect competition for an ideally located open outlet at peak times - traveling with a splitter or power strip can make you a hero to fellow travelers and guarantee access for yourself .
A lot of such chargers will work with a wide array of voltages and frequencies . It 's not uncommon for chargers to be specified as 100-240 VAC 50-60 Hz , which will work essentially anywhere in the world ( where there is a public power grid ) with simply a physical adapter for the plug . @ <URL> is right that in the case of a cell phone charger it probably does n't matter , but if you want to be certain , the only real answer is to look at the charger itself and see what it says . If it says ( for example ) 100-240 VAC 50 Hz , it might work but it also might not work . If it says 200-240 VAC 50-60 Hz , you 'll be fine . And so on . Note that VAC may alternatively be written V ~ .
First , you did a good thing , there was no comeback , and so it 's all good . But I want to answer your more general question for other people in that situation , Many buffets have and explicit ' no leftovers no sharing ' policy , if they do n't make it explicit up front then they undoubtedly will if you start abusing the buffet . So while sneaking someone a few chicken wings ( or whatever ) may go unnoticed it becomes a slippery slope to feeding a ton of other people for free . And , if you 're caught , they will attempt to make you pay . If you get caught the best case is you pay for a buffet for an extra person , worst case -- if the buffet is included in the room rate -- you pay for an extra room . While I would have done what you did I would probably recommend other people to offer a little money to the towel boy , or offer to take him for breakfast somewhere else . The chances are the hotel knows about this and are OK with it , but it 's also possible that it 's a setup for a scam which is why it might be better to offer something else . But you should never feel unable to say no if it 's something you 're not comfortable with . I do n't want to sound boorish but it 's OK not to give if you do n't want to . I do n't imagine you 're the first person the boy has hit up for food , nor will you be the last . Similarly I 'd wager that he 's pretty used to being refused and it 's not going to affect him . Sure it might make you feel bad , but then I suspect that 's the point . You could try and address the larger problem ( that the hotel employees ? or hangers-on do n't make enough ) either via the hotel website or other review sites . But that 's not really what you asked . In short , if you want to help , offer some help in some other way , because sliding stuff off the buffet has potential to get you in a heap of trouble . But , if you do n't want to help , do n't be afraid to say no .
Having done this now , I can say that the answer I 'd previously accepted ( Terminal 4 ) was incorrect . The flight I was on ( an American Airlines one ) landed at TBIT . It was fairly easy to " transfer " to Terminal 4 though - after re-dropping my bag , it was just a short walk outside - fairly obvious once you 've looked a terminal map .
Yes , they often ( but not always ) are , especially in larger hotels . A dip in the baths alone ( 入浴 nyuyoku ) usually goes for less than & yen ; 1000 and is typically available only in the daytime hours only when overnight guests are away . Many hot spring resorts offer " spa tours " ( 湯巡り yumeguri ) that let you sample multiple baths for a discounted price . Some travel agents also offer daytrip packages ( 日帰り温泉 higaeri onsen ) consisting transport , entry to the baths plus lunch .
A website of <URL> , marked on a map for your convenience ! :) ( the red markers have a low fee ; the green markers are free )
According to <URL> : Showers - Location : Freshen ' Up International Terminal - landside , level G , Main Hall . Hours : 7:00 am - 11:00 pm . Fee : $ 15 for the Deluxe Shower ( 30 minute shower + 15 minute massage chair with towel , soap , shampoo , lotion , shower shoes , and a hairdryer if required ) / $ 8 for the Standard Shower ( 20 minute shower with soap and towel provided ) . Sleeping - Best sleeping spot Ive found so far is a lounge in Terminal 2 near Baggage Claim # 4 , with two padded benches each of which is big enough for you and the one you love .
I am told , the problem with them Indian customs is , you can read them boys all the rules from the book , but if they see you with more than 2 average sized ( 750 ml ? ) alcoholic bottles , you have had it . By the book , you can carry 2 liters of alcohol : <URL> The best option in experiences of people I know and as others here have suggested , it 's best to buy in US , pack well and put it in the check in luggage . Many liquors are way cheaper in the state run package stores than what it is in any other package/beverage store . In case it helps , I think last time I bought a Gelnlivet 18 year old 750 ml was 95 bucks . But you have to also keep in mind , the bottle weight of such liquor can get very heavy . There should n't be any problem all along the way . Just my personal suggestion ; You get all the GLENLIVETs and GLENFIDDICHs in India for reasonable price . How about taking something exquisite which is n't available in India at all ? May be a Tequila 1800 ?
Big malls have free WiFi for sure . The <URL> offers it free of registration , while <URL> require a simple registration - the password will be sent to your phone with a SMS . The hotel where I was staying had free WiFi in the hall . If you really need internet I suggest to get a SIM card from local company <URL> or <URL> for the duration of your stay .
Dining cars are present on almost every long-distance train . They offer rather good food ( although I have little experience to compare it to European trains ) , though I would not expect much delicacies , just a good food of a middle-range city restaurant . Specifically for Baikal fish , I doubt it , except probably when you travel near Baikal itself . In addition to restaurant cars you can also buy basic snacks from a conductor at your car , and sometimes a waiter from a restaurant car would go through the train offering snacks to passengers . At the same time , as many have mentioned here , on every station where the train stops for at least 20 minutes1 , there usually will be locals selling food to you right from the platform . The quality of that food varies a lot ( with no medical control etc. ) , but it is indeed a chance to try a good local food . I have never traveled near Baikal , but I 've been once in Karelia , and a great choice of cooked ( smoked etc. ) fish was available . However , I think this might depend on a season . Apart from these local specialties , locals will be selling mostly basic food appealing for low-class travelers trying to eat as cheap as possible . Sometimes these locals will even buy a ticket from one station to a neighbor one and walk through train offering their products , so you might even not need to walk out . Also note that you can buy tickets with meals included , but this usually starts from 2nd class . On a short trip ( 1 night and shorter ) this will be just several snacks and some drink , but on longer trains they can bring some basic hot food from the dining car directly to your compartment . When booking a ticket , look for label like " У2 " in the carriage class field . " У " stands for " услуги " ( " services " -- meals , and also includes a few newspapers etc. ) , while the number stands for the number of meals included . The boilers are available in every sleeping car , except for some exceptional circumstances such as boiler malfunctioning or running out of water . Not that these are unheard of , but rather rare , and most probable it will be OK to go to another carriage and use their boiler in such a case . The water quality might be not the best , and personally I dislike it and try to avoid , but many people do drink it . The biggest concern is not sanitary problems , but just some metallic smell etc. . Also a bigger problem might be lack of cold ( well , room-temperature ) drinking water ; you may find that boiling water is the only drinkable water you can get . It is a good idea to have a bottle or two of drinking water with you . Also note that there are different train types in Russia . The best are so-called " firmenny " trains ( фирменный поезд ) , or the " premium " ( " премиум " ) introduced several years ago . They have all the facilities ( from restaurant cars to 3rd class carriages and toilets ) much better than other trains , but the tickets are also more expensive for the same class . At the other end , during high season ( summer ) you might see temporary trains assigned for just a couple of months . They are usually compiled of different old carriages and may have many different problems ; I even am not quite sure whether they have a dining car at all . A rough rule of thumb is the less is the official designated number of train/route ( you see it when you book the tickets ) , the better is the train : trains from 1 to approx . 150 are firmenny trains , while those temporary trains are usually assigned numbers at about 800 and above . Intermediate numbers and trains also exist . 1 Such stations are usually every several hours of train trip . And yes , even if the train comes to the station in dead night , some locals still probably will be there .
In short , no , he ca n't realistically bring them on board : under TSA rules , <URL> and thus fall under the " <URL> " restriction of 3 bottles x 100 ml max , and these rules are applied worldwide on international flights . You could still probably bring a few tiny containers of curry and something dry to eat them with ( chapattis , naan , rice etc ) , but you 'd be lucky to get a single meal out of that . " Pies and cakes " are apparently allowed though , so samosas and the like might be OK ? TSA has a <URL> that lets you search for specific items , but Indian food is n't really covered . Also , in general , security tends to err on the side of " <URL> " . I 've had a ~ 120ml tin of canned sprats ( small fish ) confiscated , the apparent logic being that because it 's over 100ml and contains some liquid ( oil ) , it could be used to make a taste explosion or something . Update : Well , that 's the theory . In practice , I just carried some premade cheese fondue mix ( read : " gel " ) through at least 4 security checkpoints that were checking for liquids , and nobody ever noticed . So I 'd go with @Azor - Ahai 's suggestion : bring it on board , and have a Plan B if you do get busted .
The showers are available on the Arrival Lobby on the Second Floor . Available 24 hours Fees ¥ 1,030 / 30min . ( with drink coupon ) ¥ 520 for each 15min . thereafter * As of April 1 , 2014 . Towels , shampoo , conditioner , body soap and dryer provided . <URL> WiFi is available in the terminal Steps for FREE wireless internet access are as follows : Choose the network ID ( ESS-ID ) " HANEDA-FREE-WIFI " on your PC or internet device . No WEP key is needed . Open your web browser . Procedures for the connection are indicated on the web browser . You must register your name and e-mail address . Enjoy free wireless broadband ! <URL>
Yes , <URL> are deducted from your credit limit . That 's actually the whole point : it 's not there just for the minibar or laundry , but because the hotel wants to be sure they can charge your credit card for the accommodation at the end of a stay . The alternative to credit is cold hard cash , but depending on the hotel you may need to pay quite a significant sum . Alternatively , for longer stays ( like the 14 days you mention ) , you may be able to negotiate weekly payments instead of a single hold to cover the lot . Another alternative is to book fully prepaid rooms online , so you pay in advance and have your full credit limit available by the time you actually arrive . You may still be asked for a small hold/deposit to cover minibar etc , but it will be a lot less .
Kadhai chicken and Jalfrezi is normally on the menu in most decent Indian restaurants ( In North India ) but I can not say the same for Madras chicken . Source : I live in Delhi
It is available in India , and in Delhi in the North , but the supply may not be reliable . As the US <URL> notes : India has the highest burden of rabies in the world , with estimates of 15,000 -- 20,000 human cases per year . Dogs roam in packs in many areas of the country . Unfortunately , human rabies immune globulin is not readily available , except in some clinics in major cities . Information about such clinics can be obtained from the website of the <URL> . Otherwise , if a traveler has not received preexposure rabies vaccination , a bite may result in having to leave the country for postexposure prophylaxis . Even so , a preexposure series is not recommended for all travelers to India . Cost is a consideration for many . Long-term travelers , expatriates , missionaries , and volunteers may want to obtain preexposure immunization for themselves and their children . Travelers may want to purchase a medical evacuation insurance policy that will cover travel for recommended rabies postexposure prophylaxis .
Well , The power socket is different , In Japan it is <URL> and <URL> while it is <URL> in Asutralia according to <URL> . The real problem here is the voltage , In Japan its 100V and in Australia it is 240V . Almost all phone , camera and laptop chargers are dual voltage and would work in any electricity from 100-240V but that 's not the case for almost all other electrical devices . Make it a habit to read the label that shows the voltage information on the back of chargers and electrical devices before you plug your devices in a foreign country . Since in Australia is 240V and in Japan is 100V then there will be no damage to your devices if you plug an Australian device in Japan even though it will not work . Anyway the opposite ( if you plug a 100V device into 240V power socket ) will lead to fireworks show so in case you are planning to buy electrical devices from Japan make sure it supports 240V .
Assuming you are departing from Venezia Santa Lucia , <URL> Opening hours are from 6 am till 11 pm and cost is Charges 6,00 $ the first 5 hours 0,90 $ / hour from 6th to 12th hour 0,40 $ / hour from 13th hour on If possible however , you should try to ask your hotel if they can store your luggage for you until the evening , which will likely cost you nothing or a much smaller fee . <URL> recommends <URL> which is open until 7 pm only . There are also further options listed within easy reach in Piazzale Roma .
Shops normally can not sell to tourists VAT/Duty free just because you have a plane ticket . The maximum a shop can do is sell you VAT-Free since that is a separate charge . Duties on Liquor and Cigarettes are not known to the personnel since they are applied at the manufacturer/wholeseller level so the shop can not sell you those without charging the duty . It 's basically already paid . VAT Refunds : Most countries allow you to get VAT back when you exit the country as a non-resident . Examples : In Singapore for example , you can buy things anywhere and get the VAT back on the airport provided you bring the receipt ( and ideally the item ) with you after the check-in . If you buy goods in Germany , you can take anything to the customs border to Switzerland and get the VAT back as long as you are not a German resident and have the item together with the receipt . Prepare to be asked for the VAT on the other side however when you come into Switzerland however . The difference can be worthwhile however for goods of higher value . <URL> on Tax-Free shopping in Germany for example . Duty Free : As mentioned above , Duty on Alcohol and cigarettes , coffee and other items are normally more difficult to get back - if at all possible - since they are not listed on the bill as a separate item and included in the base price . There are some duty/tax free shops in several European and Asian cities that cater for tourists specifically , outside of the airport . I would google specifically for the country that you are interested in . This <URL> might help also . It lists some places where you can shop duty/tax-free outside of airports as well . There are also whole regions where Duties and/or Taxes are exempted despite the fact that they are part of a country where normally higher taxes apply , as for example <URL> and <URL> are EU VAT free zones .
Yes , you will be offered food for free in the Nizzamuddin Eruklam Express ( 12284 ) as you are already charged in ticket . For evidence see the screenshot below which I took in the IRCTC website while booking ticket for the same train . <URL> To answer your second question the train usually reaches Manglore on time .
The BKK has a handy list about <URL> in Hungarian but if you know the word " Közért " means " Grocery store " ( roughly ) then you can see one open 5am-10pm at the Népliget metró ( underground ) station . Also , it says the Relay store under ground is open from 4:30 am ( the one in the bus station above ground opens at 5:30 am ) and while their primary focus is newspapers , magazines and such they also sell candy bars and similar as you can see on this <URL> picture on the official Relay store page . I ca n't remember for sure but they might even have sandwiches . The Lipóti Pékség ( = Lipóti Bakery , VERY YUMMY ! not only their pastries but they partner with Cserpes diaries and they have some seriously tasty stuff ) <URL> says it 's also open from 5am . Similarly , they might have sandwiches but I am not sure either as I have n't been at this location .
end question
start question
Ryokans in Kyoto which are culturally interesting but not terribly expensive ?
First , <URL> . You 're welcome to dispute that , and some of the other answers to that question do ( mostly by redefining what " ryokan " means ) , but I 'm sticking to my view . Kyoto is particularly bad for " fake ryokan " , because there are lots of people who want to stay in one without the pricetag , and that 's how you end up with things like the " <URL> " ( which is at least mildly interesting ) So my recommendation to get a ryokan-like experience without a ryokan-like price is to stay at a temple : you get to sleep on tatami , bathe in an ofuro , enjoy a classic Japanese dinner and breakfast ( vegetarian , which is why they 're cheaper ) , and as a cherry on top you can ( and should ) attend the morning service if you want to . There are lots in and around Kyoto , and <URL> lists quite a few . <URL> is particularly good for this , although it 's a bit of a hike from Kyoto .
In India , a lot of plug sockets look like this they seem to accept plug types from most countries . It 's a shame you ca n't find these everywhere .
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
Pity you ca n't do London City airport ( LCY ) - it 's just been named in the top 10 most interesting approaches : <URL> <URL> lists a few in Europe : Sion Airport in Switzerland Gibraltar airport ( also on the previous list ) Madeira island ( Funchal Airport ) <URL> includes some gut-churning examples in Europe as well : Lugano Airport , Switzerland Courchevel Airport , France However , in this case you 're limiting to specific ones . So let 's look at them : Graz - <URL> - 340m above sea-level , smallish , nothing much . Klagenfurt - <URL> - small airport ! Some WW2 historical significance , but not much else . Linz - Linz Airport - small , nothing much . 298m above sealevel . Potentially some castles and buildings visible from the air . Wien - <URL> - Austrian Airline 's main hub . Nothing of note about the airport , but you 'd be able to see the Danube from the air . Split - <URL> , I bussed into here , wanted to fly - but having seen the city and sailed in and out of it , the views along the coast and mountains nearby should be spectacular ! Nizza - <URL> - busiest French airport outside of Paris . Given its location on the coast , it offers great views if you come in from the right angle . Paris - <URL> - Air France 's principal hub , and Europe 's second busiest airport , if you want one that most people have or will go to ! U2 's " Beautiful Day " Music video was also entirely filmed here ! Berlin - <URL> - 4th busiest in Germany , and - ABOUT to close ! It shuts its doors on June 3 , 2012 , when the Brandenburg Airport opens . Historically this is a VERY interesting airport , being the airport for Anglo-American airlifts into West Berlin during the Cold War . Amazingly , considering its location , history , and amount of traffic , it 's had no fatal accidents . ( Update Sept. 2015 : TXL did n't close , and <URL> until at least 2018 . ) Köln - <URL> - I 've used this airport on three occasions , fantastic as a passenger . It 's also one of NASA 's alternative landing airports for Space Shuttles . Well , it was . Düsseldorf - <URL> - I 've flown into here ! Largest in the Rhine area , and close to Cologne/Bonn as well ( 20 min by train ) . 3rd busiest in Germany , 20th in Europe . Both this airport and Köln should offer great approach views of the Rhine river valley . Hannover - <URL> - smaller than Hamburg , close to the city . Had a fatal airshow accident in 1988 , but otherwise uneventful . Hamburg - <URL> - Fairly standard ( although large ) international airport . Quite close to city center , so perhaps possible to include a city approach and fly over ? Rimini - <URL> is 41ft above sea level on average . It 's fairly small compared to others , and does n't have much of note . Rome - <URL> is the sixth busiest in Europe , and named after Leonardo da Vinci . It 's had several hijackings , accidents and can experience heavy fog - perhaps the simulator can do weather events too ? Amsterdam - <URL> is Europe 's 5th busiest airport by passenger traffic . So arguably pilots there are likely to have seen it a lot . It 's historically had 10 accidents and incidents . One interesting feature from a flying point of view is that the entire airport is below sea-level - the lowest part being 11 feet beneath . From this , I personally would suggest Split or Nice , as the coastal views should be amazing ! Will provide a good mix of land and sea , and also quite close to their respective cities , for a view of those .
For free , you ca n't miss <URL> . ( photo from <URL> ) The grounds themselves are beautiful just to walk around or for a photo-op ( including views of the Salt Lake Temple itself as well as reflecting pools and countless gardens ) but there are a <URL> to visit and/or tour , too . Some of the highlights : <URL> -- Two restaurants , tours , and a <URL> at the Legacy Theater . <URL> -- A home of Brigham Young ( second president of the LDS Church and first governor of Utah ) . The home is well-preserved and the tour is very interesting . It really gives you a feel for 19th century living ( of a statesman , of course ) . <URL> -- great view of the Salt Lake Valley from the observation deck of this 26-story building . <URL> <URL> -- the highlight is a beautiful replica of <URL> . Ensign Peak ( view from Ensign Peak , photo from <URL> ) <URL> has a great view and is a short and easy hike just minutes from downtown Salt Lake City . This is the Place park <URL> consists of a monument to the <URL> in the Salt Lake Valley , as well as a visitor 's center/shop and a village of preserved pioneer homes . There is a small admission fee .
Checking in but not boarding the plane is a " no show " in industry lingo . There 's no Delta-wide " policy " on what happens next , this will depend entirely on the small print in your fare rules . Broadly speaking , assuming you 've got a non-refundable fare : Domestic flights : You 'll get credit worth the value of your ticket , minus a <URL> ( typically $ 200 ) . So if your fare was under $ 200 , you lose it all . There may also be an additional condition requiring that any new ticket you purchase with the credit cost at least as much as the original . International flights will typically contain the following boilerplate in the rules : IF THE TICKETED FLT RESERVATION IS NOT CANCELLED PRIOR TO TICKETED FLT DEPARTURE TIME / REBOOKING IS NOT PERMITTED AND TKT HAS NO VALUE ... which means what it says , ie . you 're screwed . So either call ahead and change your flight , or hope that wailing , gnashing of teeth and rending of garments at the Delta counter helps .
First , <URL> . You 're welcome to dispute that , and some of the other answers to that question do ( mostly by redefining what " ryokan " means ) , but I 'm sticking to my view . Kyoto is particularly bad for " fake ryokan " , because there are lots of people who want to stay in one without the pricetag , and that 's how you end up with things like the " <URL> " ( which is at least mildly interesting ) So my recommendation to get a ryokan-like experience without a ryokan-like price is to stay at a temple : you get to sleep on tatami , bathe in an ofuro , enjoy a classic Japanese dinner and breakfast ( vegetarian , which is why they 're cheaper ) , and as a cherry on top you can ( and should ) attend the morning service if you want to . There are lots in and around Kyoto , and <URL> lists quite a few . <URL> is particularly good for this , although it 's a bit of a hike from Kyoto .
In Switzerland it will depend if it 's an illegal article or if you fail to pay duty . In the first case ( if it 's mildly illegal , usually counterfeit watches , I 'm not talking guns or anything ) they 'll just seize it and <URL> it , no fine involved . There is a slight chance that the copyright owner might <URL> , but I think the chances are you 'll just lose the product but be fine . I guess the same will happen if you take some seeds or some meat from outside the EU or something else that 's prohibited . If you fail to declare something that you have to pay duty on however , you 're likely to have to pay a fine on top of the duty fee . That happens quite often to people <URL> on the other side of the border .
There is further information ( in Japanese ) about the different levels on <URL> . The first image ( with the concentric circles showing different distances ) also has a bit more information about what facilities you do n't have access to . Level 2 : 1km exclusion zone around crater . No access to Mt. Aso Park Road ( 阿蘇山公園道路 ) , Mt Aso Ropeway ( 阿蘇山ロープウェイ ） , Sensuikyo Ropeway ( 仙酔峡ロープウェイ ) . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the closure of Mt. Aso Park Road basically removes access to all the near-crater facilities . I think the orange line on that map marks the current restriction . There is more information about the closure of Mt. Aso ropeway on <URL> ( English ) , and this would probably be the best source for seeing if things are open again as they seem to update regularly to let people know if they will be running . It appears that there has been damage on some of the roads/pathways in the area from earthquakes , including ones linked to Mt. Aso ropeway , so even if the volcanic alert level drops , you should double-check whether the areas you 're interested in are both open and accessible - this is especially true if you 're thinking of hiking in the area .
Ok then , some suggestions , as I 've been to Valencia a couple of times . West of Valencia is Requena , a fantastic little Spanish town . The night before La Tomatina is the festival of water and wine , but as you 're going in December , you can just enjoy the town itself . It used to be a Moorish fortress , and parts of the town date from the 13th century . All sorts of random little streets and twists and turns . Closer , but still west of Valencia again is Buñol , where La Tomatina occurs . Again , nice town to walk around and explore , cool squares to sit with a coffee and soak it up . I spent several hours walking around here trying to find anyone who would let us use a phone , after being pickpocketed at La Tomatina , so I know it well . At least if you go in December there wo n't be passed-out Aussies everywhere ;) 90km north of Valencia are some hot springs . I wanted to go , but found it really difficult to get information on them , and did n't have much time anyway . But they sounded incredible . Finally , and I know this is vague and really unlike me as normally place names are easy , but there 's a Unesco heritage site - a castle fort village place on a hill . It 's SPECTACULAR . But for the life of me I ca n't remember the name . It 's 2 hours by car from Valencia . My searching has revealed <URL> which seems to pretty much match it and looks amazing , but <URL> do n't jog any memories currently . Still , it looks incredible too :) Ok , after finding <URL> I 'm now a little more convinced that it may well be the right castle . Also , and I know you did n't request it , but in Valencia , go see the Holy Grail , and the new area of Valencia is spectacular and well worth a walk . You can also go down to the docks and see the America 's Cup Village with all the companies that compete - Team New Zealand , Oracle and the like .
As far as I can establish from Wiki , there are seven famous stepwells in India : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They look fantastic , I 'll have to get myself to India sometime soon !
No , you will not get frequent flier credit if you do not fly . Irrespective of whether you check-in or not . Even if you go on board and then decide not to fly , you will be unloaded from the manifest and will not get credit * . Airlines are required to know exactly who is on board for a multitude of reasons , some of which are regulatory , and some of which are for accounting purposes . Imagine what would happen if the aircraft crashes and they 're not sure who is on board . * Mistakes happen of course , so it is possible for you to get credit for phantom flights just as much as it is possible to get no credit for flights you have flown . I 've received plenty of them ! Update responding to comments : A bit about why airlines do n't allow mileage accrual without taking a flight . Taking a flight purely for the purpose of a gaining the benefits tangential to the actual journey is termed Mileage Running . People do it because in certain circumstances , it could be possible to earn more benefits than the cost of the flight . This may be in the various different types of miles earned - redeemable ( RDM ) or qualifyfing ( EQM ) or segments ( EQS ) or points ( EQP ) and in some cases , e.g. BA or VS , Tier Points . Additionally , as Tom points out , there may be very real benefits associated with earning higher frequent flyer status . If people could do this without actually flying , there would be no such thing as a mileage run any more . Since you actually have to fly , you ca n't pounce on a cheap deal from LAX to LAS if you are currently at home in London or Paris . Even though the airlines like you to buy tickets for flights you do n't take , they do n't want you to benefit from that otherwise it would likely screw up their revenue management , amongst other things . Some links : <URL> <URL> <URL> And this one which means this thread is a duplicate ... <URL>
Just managed to do it yesterday with Delta . Could not find other airlines that offered it , at least not on the route I needed for this particular trip . They have Excess Value insurance which can be bought at the check-in counter . There is a minimum coverage of $ 3500 USD . They enter the contents of the insured baggage in their system , along with its value and weight . It gets tagged with a special tag which says Excess Value Declared and is signed . The cost for $ 4500 USD coverage came to $ 56 CDN , since we departed from Canada . Almost nobody does this since there is insurance from the airline and credit cards offer coverage too . So , usually , that is sufficient , so this is very rarely used . The first person at the checkin counter did not know it was offered , neither did a second but a third said he had done it about 19 years ago ! They had to call in tech support to know how to issue the insurance with their system .
Big Yellow Self Storage is a large storage company that has many locations around the UK . the nearest to coventry is in <URL> . I 've used them twice in London and my friends have as well ( I used to study there ) and they 've been very helpful . Some locations offer extended access hours 06:00 - 23:00 and they should be happy to help you move stuff as well . I 'd just give them a call and tell them about your predicament . This is the only company I have used but as far as I know there are many many more . I think any large company will be very similar in service and I 'd just give it a quick Google if you do n't want to go with Big Yellow . Unfortunately that 's the only one I 've used so ca n't really report about any others .
Yes , there is a comprehensive list of what vaccinations are provided by the NHS . <URL> , which says : Free travel vaccinations The following travel vaccinations are usually available free on the NHS diphtheria , polio and tetanus ( combined booster ) typhoid hepatitis A -- including when combined with typhoid or hepatitis B cholera These vaccines are usually free because they protect against diseases thought to represent the greatest risk to public health if they were brought into the country . Interestingly it says " usually " rather than making a blanket statement . I 'm not sure if this is because the decision is made at an individual trust/surgery level , or if they are just covering themselves . Further down the page it also notes that : People in certain risk groups may be offered extra vaccines I personally found that when I attempted to get Typhoid/hep A from the NHS , my GP had a temporary staffing issue with regards to nurses , and as a result simply said " we 're not doing travel appointments " . Which was somewhat frustrating , although they did at least provide a list of private suppliers . At the time this answer was placed , the webpage stated it was last reviewed on 16/11/2015 I have no idea if this applies at all to the Scottish NHS .
A good starting point is maybe EPIC ( Electronic Privacy Information Center ) . <URL> against the usage of body scanners . And they have a ton of other <URL> . In <URL> it is also mentioned that EPIC is very active in this field . Another interesting group is maybe Electronic Frontier Foundation ( EFF ) . <URL> , they list some information how you can complain about the use of body scanners .
Wikipedia explains that <URL> , specifically on the islands of Faial , Terceira , São Miguel and Pico is the place to go for Whale Watching . <URL> backs this up , narrowing it to focus on Faial or Pico . This matches the various Azores tourism sites , so I 'd definitely target those two , and it sounds like if you like the outdoors , Pico would be the place to go for some hiking as well .
Icelandair takes <URL> , such as Vaulting Poles , Windsurfing boards , Kayaks , between Europe and North America , for a fee of 16.400 ISK/117 EUR/168 USD each way . Their hub is ( unsurprisingly ) on Iceland , and they fly to a number of destinations in North America and Europe . For the U.S. East Coast , they currently fly to/from Boston , New York , Washington D.C. , and Orlando . Their European connections are mainly in western Europe . See their <URL> and their <URL> . ( I took a bicycle with Icelandair , and it was only 39 EUR extra from Stockholm to Toronto . Not bad at all , in my opinion ) ( I do not work for Icelandair , but I can still tell you that as a bonus , you can take a long layover on Iceland , I 'm sure it has excellent whitewater rafting ! This does n't cost any extra for the ticket . I do n't know if the no extra cost applies to baggage fees . )
<URL> As my other answer said , the larger islands ( like Wolfe island and Howe island ) are accessible by car ferry . The smaller islands ( anything where the map does n't show a road ) are mostly privately owned and not accessible to the public . The exceptions are those that are specifically open as tourist attractions . Two of the main ones are : Boldt Castle on Heart island Singer Castle on Dark island <URL> owns several of the islands and various sites in the area . They are generally accessible to the public , but do n't have much to see on them . Places open to tourists in the area of the Thousand islands include : Boat cruises out of Kingston or Gananoque Various War of 1812 battle sites Martello tower at Kingston
It 's a generally accepted fact that the Scandinavian countries are the most expensive places to travel . But personally , having travelled a lot within Europe and within Scandinavia , I do n't think it 's SO much more expensive in comparison to the rest of Europe . Where prices differ is generally when it comes to alcohol ( much more expensive ) , junk food/convenience food and eating out . If you 're willing to buy your own food ( and eat a lot of veg and not so much meat ) and stay in the most basic hostels then the price difference is negligible . Public transport is in some places cheaper than in other parts of Europe . But at the same time remember that you can expect to be paying 10kr ( $ 1.8 ) for a can of coke . A beer can be anywhere upwards of 50kr , often as high as 80-90kr . The tap water is great though , so drinking should not be a problem . If you 're really careful you can probably get by on 6-700kr per day . Do n't buy any fast food or junk food , this will really hit you in the wallet . e : A slightly funny way of measuring relative expensiveness is the Big Mac Index : <URL> This is the Norwegian hostelling international website , membership is very much worth it in my experience : <URL> You can get accomodation for as cheap as 220/night even in summer if you 're lucky .
end question
start question
What is the most common transmission type for rental cars in Japan ?
Since you 're only interested in rental cars rather than a car to buy , it makes sense to look at the car rental booking sites . For example , in Tokyo Airports , <URL> : Searching specifically for cars in Hokkaido also <URL> : Also note that your manual license should by default allow you to drive cars with automatic transmission as well .
Since you 're only interested in rental cars rather than a car to buy , it makes sense to look at the car rental booking sites . For example , in Tokyo Airports , <URL> : Searching specifically for cars in Hokkaido also <URL> : Also note that your manual license should by default allow you to drive cars with automatic transmission as well .
The behavior and acceptance of this behavior generally differs . Kissing someone on the cheek is generally considered to be a great degree of familiarity with the person you 're doing this with . So here goes : In the business setting I 've only seen this done by French or Canadian ( Quebec ) expats . Between friends it is acceptable but again only if you know the person you 're kissing . When it comes to business environment you kissing a woman as a matter of greeting technically can cost you dearly since it might be spun as sexual harassment and you 're likely to be fired on the spot but this is a discussion for <URL> site . Between friends : Almost anything goes but you have to look at it based upon the situation .
It 's a pub staffed by Filipina hostesses . All offer drinks and conversation , most do karaoke ( Filipinos love their karaoke ! ) , some have dancing and shows . The term itself does n't connotate sexual services , although the virtue of some ladies may well be negotiable after-hours . The phenomenon started when the bursting of Japan 's economic bubble led to a steep fall in Japanese visitors to the Philippines , leading many of the people in the industry that had developed there to try their luck in Japan instead . The Philippine pub boom reached its peak in 2004 , when there were over 80,000 Filipino women in Japan on " entertainer " visas . Shortly thereafter , Japan landed on a human trafficking watchlist and started cracking down heavily on these visas , so much that by 2007 they became effectively impossible to obtain . Some pubs scraped by through finding staff who were either married to Japanese ( for real or otherwise ) , had legal working status via some other means , abusing tourist visas or simply overstaying illegally , but obviously this put a big crimp on the industry and there are n't that many left . ( Most of the above freely translated from <URL> on the Japanese Wikipedia . ) And yes , foreigners are generally welcome , probably more so than at your average Japanese bar since most Filipinas speak decent English . But I suspect I 'm not entirely alone in not really understanding the attraction of paying fairly sizable amounts of money to drink with people who are employed to pretend to like me ...
Most reputable car hire companies will let you pick up from the airport , although I 'm not exactly sure where the pickup point is as I live in Sydney and have never needed to do this . It is absolutely unnecessary to head into the city center from the airport , so just forget about that . From the airport you 're pretty much heading in the opposite direction from the traffic flow to the city if you are heading west towards Orange , so the likely ( not promising ) situation is light traffic . You 'll be traveling out west on the M5 whereas any morning traffic will be heading east towards the city . Just be careful not to miss the right hand turn onto the M5 , the light set up at the end of Marsh street is a bit dodgy , but once you 're on and into the tunnel just keeping heading along the M5 . Note this is also a toll road so make sure you have a handful of Aussie coins ( currently <URL> , $ 4.40 after then ) . So to answer your question , how far are you from open road ? About 5 minutes away . When I did a Google search it suggested going via Richmond , another option is to go via Katoomba . My uneducated guess is that via Katoomba is more direct , however I ca n't get Google maps to show me the calculations or the correct route for Katoomba . The problem with going through Bells line of Road ( via Richmond ) you are a little way from civilization so you may have the odd feeling of being lost every now and then whereas via Katoomba you are driving through towns and can always stop and ask directions .
The official place to exchange currencies is CADECA , this entity purchases and sell certain currencies according to <URL> . These rates are updated daily . You can find CADECAs in the airport , and in major cities . Exchange rates should be the same country wide . Note that you will be exchanging your GBP for CUC and not for Cuban Peso , Also note US Dollars used to have a penalty on top of the change , that you can skip by changing to other currencies first <URL> , but with GBP you will not get the penalty . Almost ALL of the services you will purchase as a tourist are conducted in CUC , so yes , you need CUC to do stuffs . Some private places like restaurants or rent houses do accept foreign currencies , because they can exchange them later in CADECA or in the independent marketplace which have better rates . I would not recommend you as a tourist to participate in such a marketplace , ( although the exchange rate is better than the official CADECA , for reference see <URL> : the Cuban 's craiglist-like website for exchange rates samples ) . I would recommend not to exchange all your cash at once , and go for an official CADECA in the airport and exchange some to pay for your taxi and get to your destination , $ 200 - $ 400 , or more if you need to pay for your booking upon arrival . If you 're going to a rent house maybe you can pay without make the change ( but keep the exchange rate in mind if you do so ) . When you need more cash go and exchange more again .
The majority of US made cars have an automatic transmission as standard equipment . Manual transmissions are available but usually by special order . Car rental companies in the US tend to buy cars with automatics , since that is the preference of US drivers . And while yes there are European tourists who rent cars in the US and prefer manual transmissions , they are really just a small percentage of the rental customers . The reverse was true for many years in Europe in that only manual transmissions were available and Americans traveling in Europe had no choice but to drive a stick . There are some smaller rental companies that may offer manual transmissions at some locations or on some models , but at airport rental locations , it is usually the biggest companies and they pretty much offer automatics .
<URL> it 's rare to get automatic transmissions in Brazil , or that when the companies do have them , they 're regularly more expensive . Your best bet is to contact the company before you get to Brazil ( from comments of yours on other questions I gather you 've booked through Modiva ) , and find out if you can reserve one . I suspect they 'll be getting similar questions from others , especially from the US , so should be able to clarify .
EDIT , removed old answer In response to DJClayworth , yes business visas are different from work visas . Work visas allow you to work in the country as part of a business or on your own . Business visas are required if you 're travelling to visit a business in the country for work . However , my old answer was wrong . Since Sweden has a separate business visas that would be required for business visits , training , and conferences . Not all European countries draw this distinction ( the base visa is still a Schengen C-visa ) . Since the company is paying the expenses , and you 'll need to explain this on the visa , I think you do need a business visa . Otherwise you stand a chance of being refused when you explain how you 're paying for your stay . However , definitely check with the inviting company , they should know or at least be able to find out more easily . And e-mail the Embassy , I 've had great results e-mailing embassies -- I almost never call because they rarely answer their phones .
From <URL> : This is a non-operating park . There are no activities or facilities at this park . If you look at other parks on the site , you will see that if there were any hiking trails , they would be listed under " activities " . It seems clear that there are no trails .
Many countries of the world have laws about carrying ID and the rights of police to check those IDs . Many of those laws also specify that a passport is the only acceptable foreign ID for non-residents . The frequency of which these checks are conducted varies from country to country , city to city , district to district , police officer to police officer . It is a good idea when traveling overseas to have at least a copy of your passport with you at all times . I scanned the front page of my passport , printed out a credit card size , color copy and laminated it . It travels in my wallet all the time . While it does not legally satisfy the carry your passport laws , it does satisfy most people who check ID from time to time , police , hotels , etc. .
Is this what you are looking for ? <URL> ( Amazon link ) There are a couple of other publications that offer the same thing , but this is the one I 've seen most frequently .
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
There are probably two acceptable answers here : <URL> - an active volcano in Guatemala , it 's erupted 23 times since the Spanish conquest of Guatemala . It then erupted in 1965 and has been erupting basically continuously since then . <URL> - also in Guatemala ( which makes it easy for you ) , which appears on <URL> in the world . While currently the most activity is lahars ( mud flows ) there are also regular lava flows .
Agreements tend to be reciprocal ( although I would not be surprised if some were n't ) but many countries also simply decide unilaterally to grant visa-free entry to citizens of other countries . You do n't need an agreement for that . For example , compare <URL> ( certainly a very open country , on paper ) and <URL> . While I do n't know any ranking for that , it seems Haiti could be both one of the most open countries and one of those whose citizens suffer from the most restrictions ( to the extent that Wikipedia 's info is correct , of course ) . The <URL> ( however , unlike Haiti , <URL> ) . <URL> and <URL> do not require a visa to visit , from anyone .
The usual commercial problem with sleeper trains is that the vehicles carry significantly fewer passengers than a seated vehicle and often either can not be used at all in daytime , or are stuck at the same capacity as they have overnight . The standard capacities for a European train carriage ( 26m long , with a toilet ) are 36 for a sleeper , 54 for a couchette ( roughly hostel-equivalent accomodation ) , 57 for a first-class seated carriage and 76 for a second-class seated carriage . The proportions will be similar for buses . This means that the sleeper cars have to earn enough money from fewer passengers doing one overnight journey to match several daytime journies for a seated car - but the sleeper is generally more expensive to buy and more expensive to run ( overnight pay for the driver , and usually attendants in addition to the guard/conductor ) . This means that fares have to be a lot higher for a sleeper to make a profit . Sleeper trains have been run by European railways as a loss-making public service , but are being wound down as railways become more commercial . Sleeper buses are going to have a similar set of problems - they will cost more to buy than a conventional bus , and will carry fewer passengers , and will have higher running costs ( at the very least , the bedding will need to be changed and washed ) - and they ca n't be used for daytime journeys , so they will probably sit in the middle of the day . That means they will need to charge a substantial fare premium over a seated coach to make a profit ( at least double and more likely triple the fare ) . In countries where there are good alternatives like car rental or cheap flights , then this is likely to limit the market . Unless they can offer something distinctive ( like an early morning arrival in a city where the airport is not allowed to have night landings ) , they may struggle to get passengers . If there is n't an existing regulatory regime for getting sleeper buses approved , then the costs of getting the government to create one are likely to be too great for an operator to be prepared to pay - and note that some countries prohibit them entirely . Germany is a really important one , as many of the likely routes in Europe would run through Germany , but the German government banned sleeper buses in 2006 .
Yes you can . Because a Canadian license permits you to drive manual transmission cars back home , it 's taken as permission to drive one abroad . Since there is n't a specific ' manual transmission ' license there is no other approach that could be taken . I have rented manual cars in Britain many times on an Ontario license .
Cars with manual transmissions are simply more popular in Europe . While the cost of automatic cars is usually higher by a small percentage that does not make up for the difference . What allows rental agencies to increase rental fees is that automatic cards are a specialized demand which is almost exclusively catered to tourists . Locals are most likely to look for manual transmissions since that is more prevalent . When renting to tourists the cost of ownership of the car , from the point of view of the rental agency , must be divided by the volume of tourists renting which is likely lower than that of locals . One place where this is taken yet a step further is Iceland where the cost of automatic car rentals is quite expensive . They have a very short tourist season , around 3 months , where they most cover their costs and accumulate profits . The large fleets of rental cars remains largely unused the remainder of the year . That is exactly what the explained to me when I commented about how much more costly it was to rent a car there .
According to my friend from Fergana The Teas that they used to drink were primarily of 2 varieties : Green : <URL> Black : <URL> ( The One at the top ) The current tastes and varieties may vary and though the ceremonies remain the same . If you are ever in New York City you can visit Rego Park in Queens where there is a lot of people from former Central Asian Republics ( Primarily Uzbekistan ) that can probably give you a better view on the modern varietals of teas being used and there are traditions on brewing tea that vary from family to family and area to area and not just in additives .
This is the sort of waffle that marketing people are very good at generating . It is positive in all the right ways , and negative in all the right ways . It 's clever . Is it catchy ? Yes . Is it carefully modest ? Yes . ( Note that it 's not the MOST photographed . ) Is it a slogan ? Yes . Is it possible to disprove ? No/unlikely . Are people likely to question it ? No . ( You 're one of the odd ones . ) Compare this to many more formal slogans that are in use by large organizations - it follows many of the same rules .
end question
start question
How long does it take to process a French working holiday visa ?
The French Consulate web site says the working holiday visa takes an average of 2 weeks , but 1 week is generally ok . We have an applicant of our <URL> program applying tomorrow , so will let you know the latest processing time . The quickest time this year has been 3 days , but it does vary .
I found the answer in the in-flight magazine ! Aircalin class as long-haul their flights to Japan and Korea . These flights get the full catering service , as well as an enhanced selection of films on the A330 . Flights to New Zealand , Australia and the surrounding islands are not classed as long haul . However , they do still have some catering , which is nice ! For an evening flight from Australia , it 's something like a wrap or a sandwich , a small salad and a bit of dessert . There 's also a drinks trolley , which is complementary for everything except champagne . On the medium haul flights , if it 's an A330 there are some films , tv shows , music etc , along with quite a bit of information on New Caledonia . If it is n't an A330 , then there 's just a fixed selection of TV shows broadcast .
The games are usually starting around 11 AM and ending up when they are concluded or worse case when the sun sets ! I have finally found the official schedule here : <URL>
I have not done this journey in a superjeep , only in normal transportation in summer months . But I can tell you that it is usually around a 2.5 hour journey . Its a fairly pleasant drive in my experience . During winter , Iceland only has around 4 hours of daylight per day . At worst , on the Winter Solstice ( 22nd December in 2015 ) <URL>
According to the <URL> , you can get a passport from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs located in Bogotá or even one of its regional offices . It does n't look like it should take too long . According to the same source , the processing time is 24 hours in Bogotá and 48 hours in the regional offices . This is the time from after you have submitted a complete application with payment to when you receive your passport . Side note : It looks like ( from the same source ) that it 's not strictly the fact that you were born in Colombia that forces you to do this , it 's the fact that you ( apparently ) still have Colombian citizenship . So apparently , if you wanted to travel on your Canadian passport , you would have to renounce your Colombian citizenship . It 's probably better to just get the passport and remain a dual citizen .
Short answer , no -- not really . You could always take a change of clothes ( or at least a different top ) in your carry on and attempt to freshen up in the toilets . Take some wet wipes too . You could also try and find a shower in the city before heading to the airport . Depending what airport you 're in there may be a way to pay for lounge / shower access -- if there 's a transit hotel they let you pay for a room for an hour . However , I really would n't worry about it that much . If you can change at least some of your clothes it 'll make a big difference but your sense of smell is significantly dulled in flight so once you 're airborne I doubt people will notice . And planes are generally pretty smelly anyway ( although you never really notice until you land and you leave ) . If you 're really worried about it try to get a seat with noone beside you ( reserve a seat at the back of the plane , do n't check-in too early , check the seat plan when you check in and change seats if it looks like there 's a better chance of getting an empty seat beside you ) . Also , do n't use the aftershave . Or any other way to mask the scent . Putting on deorderant in the morning before everything is fine . But I 'd much rather sit next to someone who 's organically a bit wiffy than someone who 's tried to douse that in aftershave . The first I 'll get used to after a while , the second is likely to give me a headache and make the flight much less enjoyable . But thanks for worrying about it -- most people do n't ( which is why you probably should n't too much either ) .
If there is still a sim provider that takes days to activate a sim card , just go to the next provider . These days most sims work right out of the box . You should wonder however if you really need a sim . There are definitely still packages worth considering , but bear in mind that recently new eu legislation has dropped the roaming fee dramatically , starting July 2013 . The roaming fees are sometime cheaper then a local sim card . Check the <URL> and compare them with the local providers .
In general , it does not make sense to appeal for something like that . Whether an appeal is likely to succeed depends on the specifics of your situation and it 's not a good idea to discuss all this on this site . You would need help from a Greek legal professional ( which is presumably neither cheap nor easy to get from Abu Dhabi ) to get an informed opinion about this . But even if you have solid grounds for an appeal , it can take a ( very ) long time and it 's impossible to do without knowing the local language and legal system ( that 's always true but the letter you received even states as much in the last paragraph ) . Additionally , the letter also suggests that lodging an appeal by post without formally hiring a lawyer is simply not possible in Greece ( it is in other Schengen countries ) , which makes any appeal more expensive than a fresh application , even if you know Greek and feel confident drafting it yourself . So in practice you are not going to quickly get satisfaction and save your trip that way . You will only receive an answer several months from now , long after your bookings have expired and your holidays are over . At this point , there wo n't even be a valid premise for your application ( it makes no sense to issue a visa for a trip supposed to take place in the past ... ) An appeal only really makes sense if you have strong legal arguments and no hope to succeed in another application ( and of course for long-stay visas but that 's another thing entirely ) . Alternatively , you could still lodge a fresh application . Even taking the fees , documents , etc. into account it would still be much cheaper than an appeal and definitely quicker . But only do that if you think there is something you could add to make your case stronger ( detailed itinerary , bookings , etc. ) without making you look unreliable ( do n't make up a story ) , otherwise you risk getting a new refusal and damaging your credibility for the future .
The problem with arranging a group trip involving anyone other than close friends is that you ( as the organiser ) can easily be left out of pocket or worse if things go wrong ; people can and will cancel at the last minute , pull out without telling you , miss their flights , trash their rooms etc. leaving you with the liability . That 's why I 'd recommend using a UK-based ( and ATOL protected ) package tour company to take care of flights , transfers and accommodation , letting you focus on your studies . They 'll be able to take payment directly from the other participants , meaning you 're in no danger of paying for someone else 's holiday . If you start looking now at package trips for winter 2013-14 you 'll be able to get an idea of prices . Start by looking on the websites but do n't be afraid to call up in search of a good deal ; if you can bring 15-30 people along they 'll love to talk to you ! Things to consider are : Transport - the larger tour companies will organise flights and coach transfer to the resort Accommodation - typically twin/double rooms ; you 'll want chalet/hotel style close to the slopes and the bars Food - getting catered accommodation ( breakfast/dinner ) means not having to deal with 30 people 's different requirements Resort - pick somewhere large that can cater for everyone from beginner to expert skiers . Large resorts also tend to have better ( or at least more varied ) apres ski and nightlife . A tour company will also be able to get you good deals on lift pass , equipment hire and lessons without tying everyone into the same option - you 'll have people who want to hire expensive kit , or bring their own . Assuming you 're travelling during the university holidays , you 'll be competing against other students for accommodation , so the earlier you book the better . You 're unlikely to be able to get commitments during the summer vacation , so aim to get the booking confirmed during the first two weeks of September - any later than that and resorts will fill up fast for the Christmas/New Year holiday , although you have a bit more leeway if you 're planning an Easter trip .
To avoid disturbance from small children , you can use a multi-pronged approach : first , try to choose flights that are more of a hassle for parents . Generally this means night flights - some parents may be sure their child will sleep ( and not bother you ) but others are worried the child will not sleep and will cry . So they take a daytime flight and are willing to entertain them for the length of the flight second , try to minimize the impact of the child on you . Buy a more expensive ticket - first , business , even economy plus . Children are of course allowed in the more expensive zones , but they are in substantially fewer numbers . In some cases these children are experienced and quiet flyers , accompanying parents who have been kept awake by other people 's children in the past . And do what you can to improve things at whatever seat you have . Bring noise cancelling headphones in addition to earplugs , for example . Bring some sort of music you can play that will drown out the repetitive reading . third , try to react in the moment in some way that is more positive than sitting in your seat seething . Go for a walk . Strike up a conversation elsewhere on the plane . Turn around and interact with the child , such as playing peek a boo over the back of your seat . It 's probably likely to be quieter than the reading and even endear you to the parents . Tell the child your name and ask theirs , and smile . If in a few hours you want to ask the parents if there 's a quieter form of entertainment available , you wo n't be the grumpy gus in the next row , you 'll be the toddler 's airplane friend . fourth , try to be realistic . No toddler does anything for 12 hours . They nap , they eat and drink , and so on . Focusing on the behavior that irritates you , to the extent you genuinely recall that it took the entire flight time , leaves you with a bad cloud around you that can take days to shake . When the noise starts , tell yourself it wo n't last the whole flight . Do something positive , listen to something , take yourself away from the noise . When the noise stops , be grateful , even if it 's just a short respite . And finally , when you leave the plane , be grateful that you are now done with that child and do n't have to hear the noise or put in any effort to try to prevent bedlam . The parents will still be on duty for hours more today , and for another few decades in general . Count your blessings !
As <URL> answer shows , wind is the primary determinant of the difference in speed . The <URL> is a prevailing wind that typically is going somewhere over the United States , and runs typically from the West Coast to the East Coast . As such , there is a prevailing headwind ( - mph ) going east to west and a prevailing tailwind ( + mph ) going west to east . The path of the jet stream is highly variable ( its usually shown on weather maps , because it is the primary determinant of weather ) , but can be usually thought of as a U shaped curve that on average goes from say , Oregon , south to Texas , and back up to say , Pennsylvania . How deep it goes , and how far north or south it is on any given day , can be off by several states . That 's also why flight times can vary so much from the printed value .
No , you do n't need a visa to visit the US . A French citizen can visit for 90 days for business or leisure without obtaining a visa . What you need is a travel authorization ( " ESTA " ) , that you can apply for online . You can apply at the <URL> . There is a $ 14 fee .
Honestly , it 's the most efficient payment method you could use . It 's illogical NOT to get one . When you buy one , you pay a deposit of 5 pounds . You get this back when you return it - so essentially it 's free . Then you put say , twenty pounds on the card - you can top up as you wish . After that , ANY random bus , tube or train trip within London is half price . Why would you NOT use it ? If you use it a few times in one day , which it then works out as reaching the price of a day ticket , it stops charging you . Unless you go to a different zone of course , but even then if you hit the limit for say , two or three zones , it 'll match that too . Then if you 're there for a week , you can buy , say , a zone 2-3 ticket and have unlimited travel in those zones for the week . It 's faster , cheaper and easier than paying for separate tickets . For more information , check out <URL> .
According to <URL> ( Japanese only ) a standard letter from Osaka to Tokyo will be delivered " next day " .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
As you commented , it 's not necessarily possible there unless you are a Chilean resident . However , assuming you are : <URL> on many embassies including the one in Santiago for Thailand ( go figure ) . They state there that the turn around time is 2 days to 1 week , presumably depending on whether you pay for express service , and how close to weekends/holidays you are , and busy travel times .
ePassports use a " Near Field Communication " ( NFC ) chip to carry the biometric information . Many modern smartphones include a NFC reader , which allows them to read the data from the e-Passport - if you can read that data , then your ePassport is working . If you ca n't , then it 's likely broken . There are a number of apps that can read the data from the passport using NFC , such as <URL> for Android . The information on the NFC chip is protected using a password composed of your passport number , data of birth , and passport expiry date so you will need to manually enter these before it is able to display the data from the NFC . No countries are currently enforcing the use of ePassports for entry , so you will not have any issues getting through immigration with a " failed " e-passport . In some countries , such as Australia ( SmartGate ) and the US ( Global Entry ) , an ePassport is required to use the automated expedited entry lanes . Without a working ePassport you will not be able to use these lanes , however at least in Australia you will be able to jump to the front of the normal lines if/when using the SmartGate fails .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
I recently travelled for 6 months through Asia . During this time I met many travellers who were travelling for much longer periods , some for several years . Most people like myself had simply worked and saved hard for a year or more then travelled through counties where it is cheap . I also met a couple of people who were working on their travels , a writer and an entrepreneur . In South America and Asia you can travel very cheaply ( $ 30USD or less ) . As long as you are willing to live frugally and save a good amount before you go you can go for a long time . When you travel on a long trip like this you have 3 main costs . Living costs . Food and accommodation . Every country is different but in places like India , Cambodia , etc this can be very low . Site seeing . Prominent historic sites often have high fees . Especially if you are visiting multiple locations every day . Choosing to only see the most prominent and the cheapest can decrease costs . Internal Travel . Flights and trains from one city to another can often be expensive . These can be mitigated by staying in each place for longer . So if someone saves say 10,000 USD they could easily travel Asia for a year . Of Course that 's a lot of money , but if you do n't have children , a mortgage etc , and save aggressively it is very possible . The long term travellers I met came from all works of life , writers , programmers , nurses , students , factory workers . A final note is that if you 're alone your costs are higher . A couple can halve their accommodation costs as well as taxi/tuk tuk hire .
end question
start question
Suggested itinerary for Bahia , Salvador , Brazil at Carnaval time ?
OK then , I 'll give this a crack and modify some schedules I 've found in online tours . It sounds fun . I 'll allow for about a week in Bahia : Thursday 2nd Feb ( this assumes 2012 ) . Arrive in Salvador , Bahia . Check in , relax . Friday - Go see the city . There 's a lot to see , and you 'll start getting into the vibe for tonight . This night is the night of the Camarote Party . Saturday - Was a big night ! Time to relax at your hotel pool , beach , or see more the sights if you 're a travel addict . Try some of the local food , do a tour , or just explore with friends or people you 've met . Finally , head to the BLOCO . Party ! Sunday - It 's beach day today . Go check out some of Salvador 's best beaches . The best beaches in Salvador are located about 30 - 45 minutes from the city . It 's a great way to relax amid all of the crazyness , get some downtime , and get a bit out of the main city . Monday - If you did n't get enough of Camarote , tonight you could add All-Inclusive Camarote , which is one of Salvador 's best features . Tuesday - More sightseeing or relaxing , or if you still have n't had enough partying , choose if you want a CAMAROTE , a BLOCO . Wednesday - all tuckered out ? Head home ! This is adapted from <URL> . For further activity ideas and to get an idea of what to expect , the Brazil Nuts Tours blog has a great page on <URL> .
Generally shopping malls in Taipei open by 11 AM but other shops open by 10am . It says here : <URL> Working hours department and other stores are 10:00 -9:30 pm ( some stores upto 22h ) This page says <URL> Shops are open daily 1000-2200 , while night markets stay open till 0100 and convenience shops are open 24 hours . As for shopping markets , including <URL> ( boai road ) , you can see here : <URL> <URL>
If your flight on ANA has a flight number that begins with " NH " , then you can submit that flight to SAS 's EuroBonus for consideration . But how many points you earn will depend on the fare class that was booked . Many times the cheaper fare classes get only a small percentage of what SAS would award ( sometimes no points ) . The SAS website has a brief breakdown of minimum points awarded , but not a detailed explanation <URL> . If the flight is a codeshare and the flight number begins with a " KL " , then the points will be credited towards your FlyingBlue account . If you have n't signed up yet for FlyingBlue , please know that KLM , Air France and Delta all award points equally , so you could choose any of those programs and have your KLM flight credited ( depending on which you might fly the most in the future ) .
Your best source of information on this is the airline , who would n't sell you the ticket if they thought you could n't make the connection . But some extra information to reassure you : you do not have to change terminals you may not have to go through customs at all - for some flights you can stay airside and go through a much simpler process you may or may not have to re-clear security , but the longest security line I have ever waited in at YYZ was 30 minutes your bags will be checked through so you do n't need to wait to get those If you stay airside with no need to clear customs or security , and your first flight is on time , you will probably spend 90 minutes sitting at the gate wondering if you should go shopping in the terminal . And even if you need 30 min for security , 30 min for customs ( both estimates are probably double or triple what you really need ) and your flight is 30 min late , you 'll still make it . ( I 've never changed planes in YYZ . But I have landed there from international flights , and left from there for international flights , many many times . )
The <URL> website provides vaccination advice . Check the vaccines and medicines list and visit your doctor ( ideally , 4-6 weeks ) before your trip to get vaccines or medicines you may need . For Yellow fever it states : There is no risk of yellow fever in South Africa . The government of South Africa requires proof of yellow fever vaccination only if you are arriving from a country with risk of yellow fever India is not on the <URL> . The recommended vaccines depend on which you already have , what country you live in , and your anticipated activities . For example , a rabies vaccination may be recommended if you are camping , but not if you are attending a conference . By the way , your doctor is probably going to be the best person to give you advice . He or she should be familiar with the vaccination requirements of your destination country , or at least be able to find them readily , as well as the applicability to you and your situation .
You 're asking for opinions , which are very personal . But ... Peru has plenty to offer . You 're probably flying into Lima , but not one person I 've ever spoken to who has been to Lima has said it was a city worth visiting . Because of that , I skipped it on my trip this year ( though I am stopping by next year ) . Distances in Peru ( and South America ) are huge . You 'll lose a lot of time moving from major Peruvian site to major Peruvian site . Adding Brazil to your itinerary will only give you less time to actually see and do things . Yes , Rio is very much worth a visit , but as you found out , flying between Peru and Brazil is prohibitively expensive . If you want to get to Brazil on the cheap , you can take a bus via Cusco to Puerto Maldonado from where you can get to Rio Branco , which is just across the border in Brazil . From Rio Branco , you can get budget airlines to Rio or any other Brazilian destination of your choice . But , this is a time consuming process . Yes , the Amazon experience in Peru ( yes , you can visit the Amazon in Peru , too ) is decidedly different ( and not necessarily worse ) from what you can get in Brazil . But , to get to the Brazilian Amazon from Peru either will cost you plenty of time ( overland ) or money ( flying a complex route to get to Manaus , most likely ) . My advice would be that if you can set aside 20 days , spend them in Peru and , perhaps , Ecuador . Or , if you really want some diversity , take overland transport to Bolivia .
A quite a good resource is imho the standard clock setting in Microsoft Windows installations : image from talkstandards.com As you can see , it 's particularly North America , India , the Philippines , Colombia , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Australia This is more or less confirmed by <URL> that states that in most English-speaking regions , particularly the United States , the Philippines and the United Kingdom and its former colonies , the 12-hour clock is the predominant form of stating the time .
I just found the right tool for you <URL> , it does exactly what you want , it shows the path along with the day/night status in the exact position of the aircraft . It is a Windows Application ( from the days they used to call it program ) , click on the menu . Here is a screenshot ( the large red dot is the plane ) : And to answer the first part , you will have the sunrise above the ocean , the sunset somewhere above eastern Africa . Disclaimer : I am not the owner of the tool , I found it by searching , I scanned it and it seemed fine . Use it at your own risk .
As far my knowledge , the arrival and departure gates for domestic flights in Mumbai Airport are nearby . However you will have to go through security checks again at departure gate . So , to answer your questions : If both the flights are operated by same airlines ( in your case GoAir ) and you have a single ticket for your journey , you do n't have to worry about your checked-in luggage . You can get direction and information about departure gate from the flight attendants of your first flight . There will also be other security personnel to help you out . From my personal experience , they will only show you the direction and will not come and guide you . So , you will have to figure out rest on your own . Ideally you should be able to make it to your next flight on a 30 minute window if you plan smartly . Inform the flight attendants of your first flight about your connection flight and ask them if you can get off first . Take your seat near the exit . Get boarding pass for both the flights before beginning of the journey and find you which get number you need to go .
I am living in Brazil ( Rio Grande do Norte ) and I can tell you from experience that tourist staff will not be able to understand anything beyond the most basic phrases unless this is a specialty of your hotel or resort . You 'll probably be able to get " Cardapio em ingles " ( english menu ) at almost anywhere though , with the items numbered and more or less translated understandably , the prices may well not be listed or even different than the other menu . Im in no way connected to this company , but CVC viagems is a really well known travel agent franchise who would be able to arrange payment/transit/orientations for you in the cities and major resort areas .
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
The official answer appears to be NO . I e-mailed the Brazilian Consulate in Houston , and this was their ( ambiguous ) response : Dear Sir/Madam , Tourist visa applications require the presentation of the itinerary . Please contact this office once you have certain plans . You do n't have to present a purchased plane ticket . A round trip reservation under your name will suffice . It seems clear to me this was a copy-and-paste answer , and was n't intended to address my actual question of whether an entry reservation/booking was actually necessary . But I suppose it 's probably safest to have my full itenerary planned before I apply .
Hotel pricing in Japan is generally highly seasonal , and many hotels go so far as to publish a " room rate calendar " ( 客室料金カレンダー ) that shows exactly how prices vary through the year . Disney has a <URL> , but I 'll use this rather more typical image from the <URL> in Kyushu to illustrate : To parse that , 月 means month ( 6月 = June , 7月 = July , etc ) , and prices are ranked by color so that yellow ( priciest ) > green > light pink > orange > dark blue > dark pink > light blue > cyan ( cheapest ) ; and no , that order does n't make a whole lot of sense . ( Adding in letter codes , eg . <URL> , is pretty common too . ) A few trends are clear : August is the most expensive month , particularly around Obon ( the yellow days ) , with late July not far behind . This is summer holiday season , when families are traveling . The week around New Year 's Day ( late Dec/early Jan ) and Golden Week ( late April/early May ) are also very pricy . Saturdays ( 土 ) always cost more , often Fridays as well ( although not for this particular chain ) . Winter weekdays are cheapest . This is , I 'd posit , the " standard " pricing pattern for hotels and ryokan in tourist-heavy destinations . Business hotels often reverse this to some extent , with cheaper weekend deals . There can be significant deviations from the norm though : Western-style dynamic pricing is becoming more and more common , especially for identikit city center business hotels that can really only compete on price . Tourist hotels tend to go more for " packages " including dinner and drinks and hot spring passes and whatnot . For both , <URL> is the only English-language website I know of where you can reliably find these deals , its main ( Japanese-only ) competitor being <URL> . Places famous for cherry blossoms ( eg . Kyoto and surroundings ) get an extra high season in late March or so . Ski resorts obviously have their high season in winter ( but for these , too , New Year is super-peak ) . The very cheapest lodgings will have more or less flat pricing year-round , although love hotels etc will usually jack up Fri/Sat prices , and the cheapest rooms tend to sell out first at times of high demand .
For a domestic flight you typically get to the airport 1-2h before your flight . Some airlines have designated terminals , it 's practical to be dropped off there . Step 1 : Check-in First thing to do is check in , there 's a couple ways to do this . Look for the WestJet desks and use the self-serve kiosk to check in , print your boarding pass and tags for your bags . You can also check in online before you get there and print your boarding pass at home , or use the electronic one if the airline provides it . Step 2 : Check bags ( skip to step 3 if you do n't have bags to check ) If you have bags to check ( that is , more than just a small bag to take on the plane ) you 'll need to find the WestJet desks and line up . Someone will weigh the bag , tag them and give you a boarding pass . As the name suggests you need this to be able to get on the plane . Step 3 : Pass security Your boarding pass will have the gate number on it , that 's where the plane leaves from . Start heading there , because you 'll need to go through security first . They 'll ask for your ID and boarding pass . Your ID can be your provincial healthcare card or your passport . Step 4 : Gate Once you pass security keep walking until your gate and you 're done . Sometimes the gate changes , or it wo n't be printed on your boarding pass , you can still find it on the screens they have for that everywhere . They 'll start announcing boarding by groups when they 're ready .
Yes , Brazil requires visa applicants from the US to <URL> . They explicitly state that they do not accept applications by mail . No visa applications will be accepted by mail . When you finish filling out the electronic visa application form , print the application receipt , glue your picture on it , sign on the appropriate field and bring your application receipt form along with the other required documents to the Consulate . The <URL> is in Miami , so it would require one visit to Miami . You would not be able to apply in New York or any other consulate . Fortunately you do n't have to go back to Miami later to pick up your passport ; <URL> if you leave a postage paid envelope with them . In order to save you a second trip to Miami to pick up your passport , you may leave a prepaid self-addressed Priority Mail Express envelope from the USPS ( United States Postal Service , the Post Office ) for the return of your passport . The envelope must have a tracking number . The Consulate does not accept envelopes from other companies such as FEDEX , DHL or UPS .
In December at least it will be summer , so you can explore the entire country ! Suggested cities and activities below : El Calafate , Patagonia - use as a base to go see the <URL> glacier - the 3rd largest in the world , and the general area - great for hiking , climbing and trekking . The Andes are spectacular down there . Ushuia - the end of the world , it 's where the boats go to Antarctica , if you 've got the cash - it 's not cheap ! <URL> - these spectacular falls are about 275 individual falls on the border between Argentina and Brazil . You CAN NOT miss these . Buenos Aires - the home of Tango , you must see a show . I suggest Cafe Tortoni , on Avenida de Mayo - it 's cheaper than the touristy meal + dinner + lesson ads you see everywhere , and is the oldest Tango hall in the city . Fantastic show ! Recoleta cemetery is interesting , and La Boca district - and see a football match if at all possible ! Puerto Madryn - <URL> - where you can watch whales from your hostel balcony , swim with seals ( one of only 3 places in the world ) , and see many more animals on the Valdez peninsula - we saw seals , sea lions , elephant seals , whales , guanacoes , rheas , mara , armadillo , foxes , a penguin and more ! Mendoza - a <URL> in western Argentina , it 's wine country ! I could retire there tomorrow . It has great weather , still enjoys a siesta , has some of the best wine in the world , and the steak restaurants were fantastic , as was the ice-cream ! As for getting around , bus is the easiest , safest , and most comfortable . Three major classes - semi-cama ( chairs that tilt ) , cama ( turns to bed ) and cama-suite - unbelievable . Generally includes food ( ham and cheese in semi-cama , it goes up to champagne and roasts in cama-suite ) , and quality depends a bit on company , but most in Argentina are fantastically comfortable , even for long distances . I really would recommend AGAINST renting a car . The distances are so vast , better to just let the public transport take you there . Perhaps , you might rent one in El Calafate to go see some of the places around there , but there are cheap tours to the glaciers and so on anyway , it 's really not necessary . Have fun !
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
First of all , you must be prepared to such trip - it is 4 days long from Moscow to Mongolia ( with changes ) , and you should get some stuff like electronic books or films . Also you should think about possibilities of recharging your electronical devices - charges are available not in all trains and not at each stations . After those choices , I recommend you to decide what class you will travel : High class ( ' Spalniy ' in Russian ) 1st class ( ' Kupe ' in Russian ) 2d class ( ' Platzkart ' in Russian ) High class is very expensive ( about $ 700 ) , with high quality service . In railroad car you travel in rooms for only two persons . It is very comfortable , calm and quiet place . 1st class is much cheaper ( about $ 250 ) , rooms are for 4 persons , and many services are not free . This variant is also comfortable , and here you can make a good trip . 2d class is cheapest ( $ 150 ) and crowded . Rooms in railroad car are not closing , and on other side additional places are situated . This type of travel is noisy , but if you are searching some kind of communication , you should go here . From weather point of view , a definitely not recommend you to travel at the middle of the summer ( from June , 20 to the July , 20 ) - this is very hot time of the year , and not every railroad car provides possibilities to get fresh air ( even in High class ) . Also you should not travel at the middle of the winter ( in December and January ) - this is very cold time of the year , days are short , and you will not get any joy from travel . Also , you should check the number of room when you get a ticket - some of them ( this is depend on train types and class you 've selected ) have no way to open a window and refresh to room ( because there are emergency exits there ) . Try to get cheapest tickets by <URL> ( sorry , only in Russian - generaly it is March , April and October months ) and avoid public holidays ( May , 1st and May , 9th , for example )
I just found an answer on <URL> ( Portuguese ) . There are boats that take you from Manaus to Leticia . You just buy the ticket directly in the boat , there are no agencies . The schedule is a bit irregular but as a rule of thumb they go out every other day . The journey takes around 5 to 7 days . If two boats depart on the same day ( apparently it can happen ) you get 50 % discount . You have to bring your own hammock to sleep . Be careful . According to the text in the link Manaus can be dangerous due to drug traffic . Meanwhile I found some more information on this <URL> . Apparently it 's possible to negotiate with the boat owner and get a better deal for the ticket . The trip is actually to Tabatinga and not to Leticia . But these are sister cities . You can walk from one the other as you can see <URL> . You can get more information by calling the Manaus harbour : PORTO DE MANAUS : Phone : +55 (92) 3622-1330 Fax : +55 (92) 3233 2689 . According to <URL> page these are the boats that make this connection : SAGRADO CORAÇÃO DE JESUS OLIVEIRA V DOM MANOEL MANOEL MONTEIRO II VOYAGER III M. MONTEIRO FÊNIX VOYAGER IV ITAPURANGA And finally a <URL> and <URL> where you can search several routes from Manaus . They even show departure dates and contacts from the boat owner . Making reservations on-line is not possible .
From a colleague who had a similar itinerary ( only knew major stops ) the following seems to be all you need in your itinerary : All major stops - where you are staying in large cities eg what hotel you will stay at in Tokyo , along with dates Start and end dates , including flight information Rough timelines on less well known information If your itinerary changes , this should n't be too much of a problem , assuming your end date and flights are still correct . My colleague had to change his itinerary , so kept his original printout , along with an updated one in case he had to tell authorities that he had planned one set of trips but had to change to a different version . As it happened , he did n't need to inform anyone of the changes and had an excellent visit .
end question
start question
Can I bring cheese to the US from the Netherlands ?
Your source is confirmed by the <URL> : Voedsel dat men kan meenemen naar de V.S : ... Kaas ( alleen vacuum verpakt en gepasteuriseerd ; geen kazen gemaakt van rauwe melk ) . De meeste Nederlandse kazen zoals Goudse , Edammer en Leerdammer zijn toegestaan . Translation : Foods that one can take to the US : ... Cheese ( only vacuum sealed , no raw milk cheeses ) . Most Dutch cheeses such as Gouda , Edammer and Leerdammer are allowed . The most relevant restriction would be " vacuum sealed " . An Edammer cheese is small enough to be sold whole , and would be unlikely to be vacuum sealed . Gouda on the other hand is typically produced as a large wheel , and a wedge is often vacuum sealed .
Important for car ( if you rent one , it will automatically have mph , but it is still useful how fast you are going for e.g. braking distance ) : All values are rounded for convenience ; the most frequent values are Speed 30 mph = 50 km/h 55 mph = 90 km/h 65 mph = 100 km/h Every car has cruise control . If you want to explore the USA by car , I recommend strongly to use it because the long distances together with the consistent speed limit and no action ( In Europe you are overtaking , adjusting the speed because the speed limit changes , changing the lane and leave the highway ) causes you to violate the speed limit easily and the punishment is prohibitive for European standards . Temperature Fahrenheit in Celsius : Subtract 30 and halve the value 30 - 40 ° F = 0 - 5 ° C cold 40 - 50 ° F = 5 - 10 ° C cool 50 - 60 ° F = 10 - 15 ° C fresh 60 - 70 ° F = 15 - 20 ° C coolish 70 - 80 ° F = 20 - 25 ° C normal 80 - 90 ° F = 25 - 30 ° C warm Distance 1 inch = 2,5 cm ( width of a thumb ) 1 foot = 12 inches = 30 cm ( a big foot , multiply with 3/10 ) 1 yard = 3 foot = 90 cm ( a bit shorter than a m ) 1 mile = 1760 yards = 1,6 km ( multiply with 5/8 ) Time The 24h system is not used widely in the US , they are ( except the military ) still using the a.m. ( before midday ) and p.m ( after midday ) system . Everything which is not 12 : XX is easy ( 1:29 p.m. = 13:29 , 5:30 a.m. = 5:30 ) , but the 12 : XX are tricky because they are changing the a.m. / p.m. during midday and midnight . Example : From one minute to midday it is 11:59 a.m. , 12:00 p.m. , 12:01 p.m. ... 1:00 p.m. and at midnight the change to 12:00 a.m. occurs . It is good to know that the calendar begins with Sunday ( in contrast to Monday in Europe ) and dates are expressed in the month/day/year format . Drinking and car filling : The US and UK pint and quarts are different , I forgot that 1 fluid ounce = 30 ml ( US ) used for small portions 1 pint ~ 470 ml ( US ) / 550 ml ( UK ) ( half a liter ) 1 quart ~ 900 ml ( US ) / 1,1 l ( UK ) ( nearly a liter ) 1 gallon = 3,8 l ( important for filling the car and yes , petrol/gas is very cheap ) . Tire pressure 1 psi ( pounds/inch ² ) = 1/15 bar = 7 kPa ( 1 bar = 100 kPa ~ atmospheric pressure ) 15 psi = 1 bar = 100 kPa 30 psi = 2 bar = 200 kPa etc. . Weights : 1 pound = 450 g ( 1 kg = 2.2 lb ) 1 ton = 1 ton Miscellaneous The floors are numerated with 1/G , 2 , 3 , 4 ... instead of the European G , 1 , 2 , 3 ...
According to <URL> , If you are a citizen of a country that participates in the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and you enter the U.S. by land from Mexico or Canada , you are only required to complete the paper I-94W form at the land border crossing . ESTA is currently required for air and cruise ship travel only . Note : VWP citizens do not need an ESTA to travel on the ferries between Vancouver and Victoria , BC and Washington state . They are treated as a land border port .
Go with a reputable company such as DHL , estafeta , or redpak , like many others have suggested . These companies procidr quotes online . Of course get insurance on it . Customs are not due when shipping from mexico to US , its usually the other ways around . The shipping company will tell you if there will be any custom fees though . They would be paid once in the states . DhL will bill you via mail . I can tell you though it will be expensive , paperwork sent to me was like 50 bucks . Also , packaging isnt usually available for purchase at these places like in the states . You would have to have purchased your own shipping box and tape prior to going to the shipping office cause thats another thing , they dont have pick up service . ( this is true for 3 non-turist cities in mexico , hermosillo , culiacan and tijuana ) So if you can leave the laptop at home , that would be your best choice if you want to save some time and money . Otherwise take ur packaging materials , expect to pay more than 500 pesos and ask the hotel reception for assistance if you dont speak spanish . One more thing the peso exchange rate is 15 havent seen it this high , you may want to exchange some pesos now . Its expected to get up to 16 in june of this year though if u want to take ur chances . Hope this info helps , have a safe trip :)
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
No , you will have no issues . There are no passport checks . If you fly , you will pass through an ID check , where you can use your passport . This check is conducted by the TSA , which does not enforce immigration law . There are stories on the internet , mostly from 8 or 9 years ago , of TSA officers referring aliens to immigration authorities for a status check . If this happens to you , there 's nothing to worry about since you are legally in the country , so you will be fine . If my experience is any guide , this is very unlikely . I 've been traveling domestically with a foreign passport for a couple of years now without anyone ever questioning my immigration status . As indicated in a comment , my experience may not be a sufficient guide , since passengers from Puerto Rico are apparently sometimes checked for immigration status . I 've never been to Puerto Rico . To reiterate , however , with your valid immigration documents , you have nothing to worry about .
Legally , you can book a hotel room if you are 18 in the state of Washington . I believe this is true in most parts of the U.S. , but there may be exceptions for particular states . Some hotels have policies with a higher minimum age , such as 21 . However , this is far from universal . You might have to do a little bit of extra research , including checking hotel websites , emailing , or calling for confirmation . However , I do n't think you 'll have a big problem finding a room .
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
Each consulate services a fixed geographical area and people from that state are only eligible to have their visa screening done through the respective consulate . This is done to prevent abuse and fraud . If you change your address to somewhere you do n't actually stay , the following may occur : The visa officer may ask your current residence and why it does n't coincide with your paperwork . Unsatisfactory answers may result in rejection of your petition . If approved , your passport may be sent to the address in Telangana / Orissa if not being picked up at the consulate . If the visa officer decided that you are committing fraud , he / she may place additional sanctions on your file thus making any petitions in future harder or impossible to get approved . It is highly advisable to present your visa petition case as honestly as you can . If for some reason , you can not wait till the next available date for your visa interview , then you can request for an emergency interview . Emergency requests are granted outside of the normal interview slots and are granted on a per-case basis . Emergency can be anything ranging from death of an immediate family member , job reporting date drawing near , etc. . Be prepared to explain in detail about the nature of your emergency request .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
There is currently little consumer demand in the U.S. for NFC payments , for a number of reasons : Magnetic card swipe readers are ubiquitous ; in D.C. , I can use them not only at gas station pumps and for Metro tickets , but in vending machines and parking meters , and even in almost every mom-and-pop shop . There is a standards battle underway between Google Wallet , ISIS , LevelUp , Square , and other players which has divided the small market . Vendors and consumers alike are waiting . Apple has not gotten behind the technology , meaning it is not available on the most popular and arguably the most aspirational brand of devices without obtaining a hardware accessory . All mobile phone-based NFC payment technologies are newish , and not without their kinks . To relate an anecdote , in the time it took my co-worker to show off paying at the drugstore with his new phone -- to retrieve and unlock it , hold it up to the reader , be recognized , and receive the payment approval -- I could have retrieved my credit card , swiped , and put it away three or four times . As such , mobile phone-based NFC payments are very rarely accepted by independent establishments , and even some major chains are giving up on it for now ; <URL> . If you do want to use NFC , there are a growing number of options , but they are mostly with large chains . ISIS is accepted at McDonald 's and CVS ; Google Wallet is accepted at Walgreens and Five Guys ; Square is accepted at Starbucks ; and so on . The backers of the different NFC networks are striving mightily to promote them , so they will have web pages devoted to listing supporting vendors ; for example , you search can search by city or postal code for local <URL> and <URL> merchants , including vending machines .
I 've had a look at a few US based RV hire websites , and they all seem to say the same thing . That is , for normal sized RVs you need to be over 21 , you need to have held your license for over a year , and for Europeans you need an International Driving Permit if your license is n't in English ( which I guess your Belgian one wo n't be ) . Very large RVs , and those with air brakes seem to be different though . I did see a few discussions suggesting that you may wish to take your C1 course ( the license class needed to drive large RVs in Europe ) . The main reason for that is to ensure you 're happy and safe driving a large vehicle . It 'll also have the bonus that if you like RVing , you can continue doing it when you get home ! One slight wrinkle is that licensing in the US is handled state by state , and in Canada province by province too . The best advice seems to be to ring up the hire car company you 're planning to use , and ask them . It 's not impossible that their insurance will have stricter requirements than the legal minimum , so that may be the limiting factor anyway . Most of the big companies should be used to visiting Europeans , so ask them and see !
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
To get a visa on arrival , you need to apply online for a pre-approval first . There are many agencies ( I used visa-vietnam . org several times ) , and they work fine , as long as you apply online several working days in advance . After a few days , they 'll send you a visa approval document which you need to bring to board the plane . Note that you can only use visa-on-arrival if arriving by air ( not if crossing the ground border from Cambodia/Laos/China ) . Vietnamese embassy officials in Bangkok are rude and corrupt . When I went there , they insisted on higher-than-posted visa fees . It also involves 2 trips to the embassy unless you opt for an expensive express service option .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
So basically it 's not just two countries that make up the difference . For example , as as Dutch citizen you can get a visa-on-arrival in Mozambique , while Sweden ca n't . Sweden has visa free entry into Vietnam , while Dutch do n't . Rather than list all the differences , I 'll point to these two Wiki pages : <URL> <URL> They list all the countries and the rules for the citizens - visa free , visa-on-arrival , and so on . It also means it 'll continue to be more up to date as the rules change ( eg this past year <URL> - go figure ! )
The US Treasury has <URL> regarding imports from Iran , which read as follows : IMPORTS FROM IRAN - Goods or services of Iranian origin may not be imported into the United States , either directly or through third countries , with the following exceptions : a ) Gifts valued at $ 100 or less ; b ) Information and informational materials ; c ) Household and personal effects , of persons arriving in the United States , that were actually used abroad by the importer or by other family members arriving from the same foreign household , that are not intended for any other person or for sale , and that are not otherwise prohibited from importation ; and d ) Accompanied baggage for personal use normally incident to travel . Since you state that your electronics are not otherwise controlled by US import regulations , you should be able to bring them into the US under exception ( c ) assuming you do not intend to sell them . Please note these regulations apply only to goods manufactured or sold in Iran . As far as I am aware , there are no import regulations specifically pertaining to items of non-Iranian origin belonging to Iranian persons entering the US .
There 's an important distinction between leaving the US temporarily , and leaving permanently , which is as much as anything dictated by you returning to your place of residence . If you are in the US under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and you leave the US for a few weeks to visit Canada ( or Mexico ) with an intent to return to the US then you are deemed to have only temporarily left the US for that period , and thus your 90 days carries through - even though you 're out of the country . In the days of the I-94W forms ( the green form you used to fill in when arriving in the US ) , you would actually keep your I-94W in your passport even when you left the US . If you are leaving US to return to your place of residence , then you are leaving permanently . In this case your VWP period would end when you left the country , and historically that 's when you would have turned in your I-94W . As you have a work visa to be in Canada , for the period of that visa Canada would be your place of residence . That means that every time you leave the US your visit will have deemed to have ended as you 've returned to your place of residence , and thus permanently left the US - which means that when you re-enter the US the VWP clock will be restarted . At the end of the day the Canada/Mexico condition is intended to stop people doing visa runs from the US to Canada/Mexico , thus getting another 90 days on their VWP . If it 's clear that 's not what you 're doing then you 'll have no issues . Do n't forget that to enter the US under the VWP you will first need to <URL> . ( Note : Usual provisions apply . IANAL , but I 've entered the US around 40 times both on VWP and on Visas so I know the processes fairly well ! If you want a definite answer , either contact <URL> , or talk to a qualified immigration lawyer )
Yes , you should be able to do that . That 's precisely what the single market is about and , incidentally , the reason why the EU enacts so many seemingly petty unrelated rules ( EU countries have to agree on rules regarding safety , labelling , etc. so that most products can then circulate freely between them instead of setting rules independently of each other and enforcing those rules at the border ) . Information provided on the <URL> reflects this : If you 're travelling from a country within the EU , you can bring any fresh foodstuffs - fruit , vegetables , meat , dairy or other animal products ( eg fish , eggs and honey ) - into the UK . ( This being based on EU law , French rules will be similar . ) The only exceptions to this general principle are things like firearms and drugs , for which rules have n't been harmonized . Even alcohol or tobacco can be carried between countries relatively freely , provided it is for your personal use ( quantitative thresholds <URL> are only guidelines based on the notion that very large quantities are not for personal use ) .
end question
start question
With an Advanced Purchase UK train ticket , what happens if your train is cancelled ?
Having had this problem happen to me today due to flooding , I 've discovered the answer buried at the bottom of the <URL> . If you decide that you no longer want to travel due to the disruption : Your ticket is non-refundable . However , if the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or delayed and as a result you decide not to travel a refund will be offered on completely unused tickets and you will not be charged an administration fee . If you still want to travel : If the train you purchased a ticket for is cancelled or is delayed and you still decide to travel , special arrangements will be made to accommodate you on another train ( although a seat can not be guaranteed ) . If you no longer want to travel , you just need to go to a ticket office with your ticket and seat reservation for the affected train , and ask for a refund . Depending on the station , it may or may not be easy to arrange , but it is possible . Alternately , you can send in a claim ( including the ticket + reservation ) as you would 've done for a long delay , but this is likely to take longer and result in a refund in rail vouchers . If you do want to travel , it 's generally best to go to the customer services desk and get them to endorse your ticket to indicate the restrictions are lifted . They can also provide advice at the same time about alternate routes . If it 's a major problem , you ought to be fine just hopping on another train , but for localised problems it 's best to get the ticket endorsed so staff on trains + stations elsewhere know immediately what happened .
Most of Europe is in the <URL> treaty area . The UK is n't . You would need a Schengen tourist visa for sightseeing . And a transit visa is n't sufficient for a longer stay in the UK , either .
In short , no , the brace position does not change if your seat-belt has an airbag . Seat-belt airbags are intended as an alternative protection in cases where the passenger is not in the brace position at time of a crash . The preferred option is still for the passenger to assume the brace position in the event that there is advanced warning of an impending potential incident . From <URL> : Test data indicate that passengers in the brace position do not require supplemental protection , so that it will not be necessary to show that the AAIR will enhance the brace position . However , the inflatable seatbelt restraint must not introduce a hazard in that case by deploying into the seated , braced passenger . I ca n't seem to find it at the moment , however there is a good video available that shows a seat-belt airbag deploying for a passenger that is already in the brace position . By design , the majority of the force/inflation occurs sideways in this case so the airbag basically deploys beside the person so as not to cause additional injury by forcing them out of the brace position .
First of all , it depends on why your card is retained . I can think of at least three common situations : You have entered a wrong PIN too many times . Your issuing bank has decided to cancel and retain your card , e.g. because you have exceeded your credit limit and they want to prevent you from charging the card at " offline merchants " . This may of course be a mistake by your issuing bank . A failure ( software or mechanical ) in the ATM prevents it from returning your card . In the first two situations , you are unlikely to get your card back . The wrong PIN count is recorded on the card itself , so even if you got it back , it would be retained again the next time you are trying to use it . The wrong PIN counter on the magnetic strip can at least in theory be reset , so that the card itself is reactivated . This can however only be done by the issuing bank . If you are using a card with a chip , the chip may permanently deactivate if you exceed the number of allowed wrong PIN entries . In this case , you need a new physical card . If the card is retained on request by your issuing bank , the cause is not specified through the ATM network , so the ATM operator would not know why your bank wants the card to be retained . Common practice is to not return such cards to the holder . After all , the operator must assume that your issuing bank requested the card to be retained for some reason . In this case , the card is not necessarily permanently deactivated , but can be reactivated if you are able to solve the issue with your bank . This may of course mean a lot of hassle for you and may require you to convince both your issuing bank and the ATM operator to get in touch with each other , so that you can get your card back . In the third case , if the ATM swallows your card without obvious reason , you are likely to be able to get your card back . Even if it 's not solved immediately , the ATM operator will have no reason to further retain your card , and return it to you . If the ATM is not located in a bank office or you are using the ATM outside the opening hours , there is of course no one immediately available to do this . In many cases , you can find a phone number for customer support located on the ATM . They may or may not be able to help you . Unfortunately , it is not possible to reliably prevent any of these situations from happening . Even if your card is retained by mistake , do not expect too much effort from the ATM operator to help you with a swift solution . There are however a few things you can do to mitigate the consequences of a retained card : Do not use ATMs outside regular bank offices . If they are malfunctioning and retaining your card by mistake , you are bound to spend much time resolving the issue . Try to use ATMs in actual banks during the opening hours or at least in a location you can stay until the bank opens again on the next working day . In this case , you have at least someone to talk to , who can actually get access to your card . Check with your bank or card issuer in advance which options you have if your card is lost or retained . Do they offer emergency cash on a short notice ? Are they able at all to issue you a new card , which is delivered to you on short notice in or near the locations you are traveling to ? If not , you should consider a travel insurance with such benefits . If possible , bring at least two ATM cards from different banks . If one of the issuing banks for some reason decides to bar your card , you can use the second card until the issue with the first card is solved . Do not be unreasonably afraid to carry enough cash . I guess this depends on where you are traveling , but my experience is that it is much more likely to run into problems when trying to pay with or withdraw cash from an ATM card than to be robbed .
Short Answer Yes ! Typically you will find a ticket conductor on-board who will check tickets in the start . Try to contact him beforehand in order to ensure risk free travel . The ticket conductor can help you purchase a ticket on-board the train . The ticket will be a little bit more expensive , but it is certainly possible . This is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , If you 're really in a hurry , you can buy your ticket on Deutsche Bahn 's trains . These tickets cost slightly more than conventional tickets bought before departure , but you can pay either in cash or by credit card . Certain special offers are not available on trains . NB : if buying a ticket worth over EUR 50 , you are required to present either your passport , national ID , or your BahnCard . One final tip : if travelling by local train or suburban rail services ( S-Bahn ) , you need to buy your ticket before boarding your train . As Deutsche Bahn mentions , make sure the train you are trying to board is not a local train ( you will have to pay a penalty fare if you are found in these without a ticket , costing double the ticket price or at least 40 EUR ) . The local trains include Interregio-Express , Regional-Express , Regionalbahn , S-Bahn . For the IC , ICE , ICN this would be completely valid and applicable and is a great lifesaver ! Trains with Reservations Some trains mandate reservations , such as the ICE-Sprinter or the <URL> . You must ask the ticket conductor for permission and ensure that there are empty seats on the train before getting comfortable in the train . Typically it 's easy to check if a seat has been reserved for someone . The reservation detail is shown by a display on top of the seat . All trains however do not offer this feature . This means that you can not go and grab a seat and wait for the train to start moving before you purchase the ticket from the ticket conductor . If empty seats are available on such a train and you are able to purchase a ticket ( along with a reservation ) , the ticket conductor will allow you to travel on the train . If you are found on a train which has mandatory reservation and has no empty seats , you will be asked to de-board on the next station . An ICE-Sprinter ( or CNL ) is never absolutely necessary in order to reach from Point A to Point B , but just in case you do take one of these trains , you want to avoid unnecessary problems . DB is not the only operator in Germany You must also take note that a significant portion of stock operated in Germany is not <URL> by Deutsche Bahn ( information provided by @Tor - EinarJarnbjo ) . Deutsche Bahn <URL> about 34,000 km of the 41,000 km of railway track in Germany , but many other private companies run their stock on this network as well . Alas , Deutsche Bahn does not operate most of the regional trains anymore in Germany , but most of the operators apply the same DB rules ( and in addition the regional " Verkehrsverbund " rules ) . There are <URL> ( in near future only four ) non-DB long distance services in Germany not operated by DB , but none of them stops at any airport . ( information provided by @neo )
There are no stages , early booking is usually cheaper , as you will get your place . If you want to press price down , select shared accommodation , but you lose the privacy . You can pick some special offer if is available . Best guide I ever found for this is on <URL> Follow the links mentioned to discover/monitor if there is a special offer suitable for you . It does not look so at the moment .
Assuming you are departing from Venezia Santa Lucia , <URL> Opening hours are from 6 am till 11 pm and cost is Charges 6,00 $ the first 5 hours 0,90 $ / hour from 6th to 12th hour 0,40 $ / hour from 13th hour on If possible however , you should try to ask your hotel if they can store your luggage for you until the evening , which will likely cost you nothing or a much smaller fee . <URL> recommends <URL> which is open until 7 pm only . There are also further options listed within easy reach in Piazzale Roma .
Between Paris and Tours you can either take a TGV ( highspeed train ) or an " Intercités " ( classical train ) . Both are cheaper when booked in advance . The full fare for a 2nd class TGV ticket is 65 EUR . Booked in advance it can be as cheap as 25 EUR . For Intercités the range goes from 15 EUR to 36.20 EUR . You should also know that TGVs can sell out . If you are really unlucky and show up at a very busy day , there may be no more seats available .
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
First , it is very , very unlikely for German ICEs to have all seats reserved . Many Germans do n't reserve their seats because they either have season tickets or a non-fixed itinerary or do n't want to pay the reservation fee . ( This may change once reservations are included in the ticket price , but <URL> . ) However , it still happens that a train is full of people despite not being fully reserved . Often , this is because a double unit of one of the later ICE builds ( not the first generation ; they are a single train not designed for doubling or splitting ) is reduced to a single unit ( typically due to technical problems ) . In much rarer cases this is due to a demand higher than what can be accomodated ( Hamburg -- Copenhagen was one before they introduced compulsory reservation a few years ago ) . If this happens , there is a number of things that can happen : The train still leaves because the staff decides it is safe . This will typically be the case if there are people standing in the corridors , but it is not fully packed and people can still walk back and forth . Occasionally , the first class is opened to second class passangers ( more likely on regional trains , though , where the price difference is less ) . The train wo n't leave because staff decides it is no longer considered safe . People are then asked to leave nicely , then less nicely . ( Contrary to the other answer , I have never heard of the offer of vouchers to voluntarily leaving . ) The police is called and forcefully removes random people from the train . Once enough people have removed themselves/have been removed , the train leaves with often considerable delay . To reduce your odds of falling victim to the second bullet point , it is helpful to be among the first to board a train , even if that involves an odd bit of pushing and shoving ( seen as highly unfriendly , of course ; do n't overdo it ! ) . Typically , those closest to the exits will be removed if the police are called . Also , when grabbing any empty seat , make note whether the little electronic sign above it notes two stations between which the seat is reserved . Occasionally , it says ggf . freigeben instead , because somebody booked the reservation only shortly before departure , [ 1 ] or it says bahn.comfort for a special contingent of seats offered to the frequent travellers who acquired comfort status . If your seat says neither , it is extremely unlikely that you are removed from the train . The police does not check tickets to remove any passanger preferentially . Finally , the Zürich -- Hamburg train is one that is not too likely to be full -- however , the peak travel times are Friday afternoons and Sundays . During those days you may have a harder time finding a seat . I have n't had a train of that particular relation being too full to leave yet , though ; and it is typically served by the oldest ICE generation . Notes : [ 1 ] : I used to think that ggf . freigeben could also mean the train 's IT failed . Turns out that in that case the signs would read GGF . FREIGEBEN in capital letters , making it easy to distinguish the two . When I saw the all caps version ( displayed on every seat , so obviously erroneous ) , I attributed it to a different ICE build than what I normally travel with .
The bag will remain on the claim belt until eventually an airport worker removes it and takes it to lost property . If the claim belt is used for many flights at a busy airport then of course that could be a long time ( all day , perhaps ) . It is not unusual for international bags to go unclaimed for a long time ( many hours perhaps ) because of immigration delays . In most places bag delivery is contracted out to the local airport or a local contractor , so the airline will not be concerned . The bag tag barcode on the bag identifies the baggage in the global baggage computer system . Information there also includes your name and telephone number , which might be used to contact you . However in all probability no one will care that much . Some identification may be required to retrieve the bag later . If there is a customs concern the airport may be unable to release the bag to you until that is settled . When there was a problem at London Gatwick last year , British Airways told customers to go home instead of waiting all night ; their bags were subsequently delivered to them by courier .
In Switzerland it will depend if it 's an illegal article or if you fail to pay duty . In the first case ( if it 's mildly illegal , usually counterfeit watches , I 'm not talking guns or anything ) they 'll just seize it and <URL> it , no fine involved . There is a slight chance that the copyright owner might <URL> , but I think the chances are you 'll just lose the product but be fine . I guess the same will happen if you take some seeds or some meat from outside the EU or something else that 's prohibited . If you fail to declare something that you have to pay duty on however , you 're likely to have to pay a fine on top of the duty fee . That happens quite often to people <URL> on the other side of the border .
In the case of the UK , <URL> . These are discounted early-bird single journey fares , available in limited numbers and with strict conditions . Advanced tickets are valid only for the selected journey ( although they are changeable prior to departure ) and non-refundable . Turns out that <URL> , broken down per subsidiary . This page is automatically updated every day , since Advance Ticket sales open roughly as early as 12 weeks before departure . Note that the train journey will appear in the <URL> , and hence be available for reservation , only after the train timetable has been finalised and published . Moreover <URL> . This is to say that the opening of the Advance Ticket sales does not guarantee that a ticket for the journey can be booked .
According to <URL> , this is either <URL> line ( 3315 km ) , closely followed by Paris-Moscow ( 3217 km ) . I would have thought that the Venice Simplon Express on the route <URL> or the <URL> route would be a good candidate too , but I ca n't really find the distances . A google maps route plan using a car suggest that both are shorter than the above , but obviously this will depend on the exact route taken .
Yes you can . All these three tickets can be used on <URL> , including TER and Intercités . There are some restrictions though : You are not allowed to use it on trains with compulsory seat reservation , such as TGV trains . Note that reservation is never compulsory , and I think even not possible in TER trains . Regarding the Intercités trains , reservation is compulsory on some of them . This restriction will not bite you as you will not need to travel on them . If you rely on TER and the other operators , you have a very good network at your disposal . You are not allowed to travel first class . With " Mobilis " and " Ticket Jeunes " you are not allowed to access the airports Orly and Roissy by train ( <URL> ) . Moreover the airport busses , Orlybus and Roissybus , can not be used with these two kinds of tickets . None of these passes allows you to use the <URL> light railway . You have to be sure that your ticket is indeed valid in the zones you want to travel , for the whole journey . If it is n't , with a Navigo pass , you can purchase a <URL> ( you need to buy it just before your trip at your origin station ) . Note that a Navigo monthly or yearly pass ( but not a weekly pass ) is valid for the whole Île-de-France region on week-ends and public holidays . With Mobilis or Ticket Jeunes Week-end , your pass must be valid for the whole journey .
Ok , the comments have given a suggestion about booking another berth , which is impractical if you are concerned that the baby may actually roll over . Some practical tips to consider You can either book a first class or a 2-tier AC berth ( if you are travelling 3 tier AC already and are considering a second ticket for the kid , it may work out cheaper to do this ) , and ensure that you get a lower berth ( which is tough unless you book early ) , the berth in a 2-tier AC or First AC or First Class compartments are much wider than the one in other classes and can give enough room for the kid If you really want this substantiated you can see ( <URL> ) which has pictures and detailed measurements . If you like to be a bit bold and can convince co-passenger the way I did with a year old daughter you can look to replicate what I did . I used to make a cradle in between the seats , I will have to draw up something to explain ( and kindly forgive my horrible drawing ) , you tie a sufficiently long piece of cloth i.e. a saree or something that 's circa 2 metres long and tie it up to the top berth , since the train only shakes sideways this would actually provide a very comfortable journey to the kid ( if he is used to sleeping in those age old cradles made with a similar style at home it would be even better ) . <URL> The third option is to get two lower berths and actually carry a small flat cradle into the compartment and make the baby sleep in it , like this : <URL> I have only thought about this never did this for my travels . Happy sleeping
Generally , if you have a through booking , then if you miss the flight because of the airline 's fault then you become their problem . This does n't mean you 'll automatically get put on the next flight . You 'll need to talk to the airline and ask for help , and ask for re-booking . If the next flight has spare seats , then all should be well . Most likely though , you 'll get put on standby for the next flight , and hopefully will make the next one or the one after . As it 's the airline 's fault , you should get meal vouchers , help with a hotel if needed etc. ( Note - the exact level of help you get depends on the jurisdiction you 're in , and the home jurisdiction of the airline ) However , if you miss the connecting flight because of your own fault ( eg you fall asleep while waiting near the gate ) , then it 's probably no different to if you have two independent bookings ...
For the life of me I could not come up with a single itinerary that will fly Miami to JFK then LaGuardia to Zurich . So if this is the case there are 2 different itineraries in play then you will need to collect your luggage and re-check it at the next airport to your final destination , which has been discussed in many forms on this site already : <URL> <URL> <URL> So if you need to transfer from airport to airport you will have to collect your luggage . Carry it to the Taxi $ 35 - $ 50 + tip and at least an hour of your time then checking it for your next connection and so on . Personally while $ 70 is not chump change is it really worth about 2 hours of your time ? ADDITIONAL INFO Just found a way to create a connection with an airport transfer . There is also a rule listed in <URL> which states : Baggage will not be checked beyond a point at which the passenger is to transfer to a connecting flight , if that flight is scheduled to depart from an airport different from the one at which the passenger is scheduled to arrive . So you will definitely have to pick it up . Hump it to a taxi then check it back in at the other airport and continue . Personally I prefer convenience .
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
As Mark mentioned it does depend on the airport and country , but as a general rule , the inspectors are only required to repack your items back into the suitcase they came out of . The plastic wrap is a disposable item and even if they slowly and carefully unwrapped it , it would be near impossible to rewrap . So plastic wrap would be tossed by any inspection after you have checked your bags . If you have something like a cardboard box and the plastic wrap was keeping it shut , then the inspector would likely use tape to close the box after completing the inspection .
end question
start question
What happens with checked luggage with an airport change ?
For the life of me I could not come up with a single itinerary that will fly Miami to JFK then LaGuardia to Zurich . So if this is the case there are 2 different itineraries in play then you will need to collect your luggage and re-check it at the next airport to your final destination , which has been discussed in many forms on this site already : <URL> <URL> <URL> So if you need to transfer from airport to airport you will have to collect your luggage . Carry it to the Taxi $ 35 - $ 50 + tip and at least an hour of your time then checking it for your next connection and so on . Personally while $ 70 is not chump change is it really worth about 2 hours of your time ? ADDITIONAL INFO Just found a way to create a connection with an airport transfer . There is also a rule listed in <URL> which states : Baggage will not be checked beyond a point at which the passenger is to transfer to a connecting flight , if that flight is scheduled to depart from an airport different from the one at which the passenger is scheduled to arrive . So you will definitely have to pick it up . Hump it to a taxi then check it back in at the other airport and continue . Personally I prefer convenience .
<URL> Former London flight attendant Mrs Meho said there 's little cabin crew can do with a corpse , so the priority is to place the body out of sight . " We make the body comfortable , " Mrs Meho said . " Either that means taking it somewhere discreet or lying the body flat and covering with a blanket . If there are not seats we ' prop ' the body up . " " We can place them ( bodies ) anywhere , but not a lavatory , " Sharon said . " We are also given the option of putting an oxygen mask on the person and simply saying they did n't feel well , even if we were sure they had gone to meet their maker . "
Are you marrying a US citizen ? If not I doubt it will matter . Just update them when you get married or send them an email informing that you are getting married . If you are marrying a US citizen then that can cause problems since part of the student F-1 visa is to prove your ties to India and that you plan to return there after your studies .
I just had a layover in Addis a few days ago . You do not necessarily have to collect your luggage there . Confirm this with the airline agent when you check your bag ( s ) . The destination ticket should indicate Durban airport ( DUR ) . In addition , I can confirm that for an international transit , you do not need to clear Ethiopian immigration controls .
The practice of accompanying an espresso with a glass of water is typical in southern Italy , and in particular in Naples in which coffee is something of a mystical ritual . Recently other establishments across Italy ( and worldwide ) have begun following this practice . High-end places might serve you a glass of water as an implicit statement saying that their coffee is so good that it requires you to clean your mouth to properly taste it . The purpose of the glass of water is twofold . It cleans the palate before drinking the coffee , allowing you to better enjoy its taste . It also helps compensate for the thirst that usually comes after drinking the coffee ( a preemptive measure , if you will ) . <URL> : Un ottimo servizio prevede che l’espresso venga accompagnato da un bicchiere con acqua ( poca , non occorre pieno ) . Se l’acqua dell ' acquedotto è buona , va benissimo . Perché l’acqua ? Perché il caffè fa venire sete e desiderio di bere . Quando berla ? Un vero intenditore la beve sempre prima di bere il caffè , affinché rimangano a lungo in bocca il gusto e gli aromi . There 's a chance that the bar you visited serves a glass of water with hot chocolate , for similar purposes as outlined above . Of course , nothing stops you from drinking the water after finishing your hot beverage . You might see a few frowned faces around you , but all in all should you really care ? I believe you 're free to consume your purchased drinks in whichever order you prefer , regardless of unwritten rules and traditions .
First of all , it depends on why your card is retained . I can think of at least three common situations : You have entered a wrong PIN too many times . Your issuing bank has decided to cancel and retain your card , e.g. because you have exceeded your credit limit and they want to prevent you from charging the card at " offline merchants " . This may of course be a mistake by your issuing bank . A failure ( software or mechanical ) in the ATM prevents it from returning your card . In the first two situations , you are unlikely to get your card back . The wrong PIN count is recorded on the card itself , so even if you got it back , it would be retained again the next time you are trying to use it . The wrong PIN counter on the magnetic strip can at least in theory be reset , so that the card itself is reactivated . This can however only be done by the issuing bank . If you are using a card with a chip , the chip may permanently deactivate if you exceed the number of allowed wrong PIN entries . In this case , you need a new physical card . If the card is retained on request by your issuing bank , the cause is not specified through the ATM network , so the ATM operator would not know why your bank wants the card to be retained . Common practice is to not return such cards to the holder . After all , the operator must assume that your issuing bank requested the card to be retained for some reason . In this case , the card is not necessarily permanently deactivated , but can be reactivated if you are able to solve the issue with your bank . This may of course mean a lot of hassle for you and may require you to convince both your issuing bank and the ATM operator to get in touch with each other , so that you can get your card back . In the third case , if the ATM swallows your card without obvious reason , you are likely to be able to get your card back . Even if it 's not solved immediately , the ATM operator will have no reason to further retain your card , and return it to you . If the ATM is not located in a bank office or you are using the ATM outside the opening hours , there is of course no one immediately available to do this . In many cases , you can find a phone number for customer support located on the ATM . They may or may not be able to help you . Unfortunately , it is not possible to reliably prevent any of these situations from happening . Even if your card is retained by mistake , do not expect too much effort from the ATM operator to help you with a swift solution . There are however a few things you can do to mitigate the consequences of a retained card : Do not use ATMs outside regular bank offices . If they are malfunctioning and retaining your card by mistake , you are bound to spend much time resolving the issue . Try to use ATMs in actual banks during the opening hours or at least in a location you can stay until the bank opens again on the next working day . In this case , you have at least someone to talk to , who can actually get access to your card . Check with your bank or card issuer in advance which options you have if your card is lost or retained . Do they offer emergency cash on a short notice ? Are they able at all to issue you a new card , which is delivered to you on short notice in or near the locations you are traveling to ? If not , you should consider a travel insurance with such benefits . If possible , bring at least two ATM cards from different banks . If one of the issuing banks for some reason decides to bar your card , you can use the second card until the issue with the first card is solved . Do not be unreasonably afraid to carry enough cash . I guess this depends on where you are traveling , but my experience is that it is much more likely to run into problems when trying to pay with or withdraw cash from an ATM card than to be robbed .
The simple answer is , it depends ! Each airline , and even sometimes each airport , will have different rules about what is and is not allowed . As a general rule , most airlines will NOT automatically check your luggage through for an overnight connection . You will normally need collect your luggage when you land , and re-check it the following morning . This is normally a good thing as it allows you access to your luggage for your overnight stay . However this is not true for all airlines - some WILL check your luggage through , especially for short overnight stays ( eg , arrive 11:30 pm , depart 5:30 am ) . The only way to find out exactly what they are going to do is to ask the airline , and even then you might find that when you get to the airport they proceed to do something different anyway ! If you want access to your luggage at the stopover point then basically all airlines will honor such a request at check-in . This is called " short-checking " , and although not all airlines will do it in a general sense , they all should for an overnight layover . If you want them to keep your luggage overnight , then it may be a bit more of a struggle . Some airlines , and even some airports , have policies that they simply will not do this - so whilst you can ask , be ready for a refusal . The one time you may be able to talk them into doing this where they otherwise refuse is if you are not able to go through passport control at the connecting country ( eg , you do n't have a visa ) , in which case you will not be able collect your luggage - in this case they may be more willing to check it all the way through , however I would not bet on this always being successful .
As someone that had first-hand experience of this ( ie , I did exactly the same thing ! ) I can tell you that it 's fairly simple . Once your temporary license expired you are " unlicensed " - you will have been in the state long enough that technically your home-country license is no longer valid in California , and your California license is expired . Thankfully there 's a simple solution - just go into the DMV , let them know what happened , and they will give you a new temporary license for another 60 days . No further written test required . I 'm sure if you do this too many times they will eventually take issue with it , but I had no problems doing it once . When you come to do the driving test you 'll likely find it very easy . They seem to go easy on people who have had their license in a foreign country - I did n't even have to do a reverse park as a part of mine despite that being a mandatory part .
<URL> . The way it works is you can call online or call a local US number that will call the Chinese number for you ( which would use your minutes or your normal per minute cost on top of the $ 0.02 ) . Your girlfriend could call you online using it as well , if you set up an account for her in the US ( it ca n't be set up outside ) . That would require a second phone line though -- any US number that is n't already in use by Google Voice . Once set up she can have it redirect to Gmail chat rather than the phone number , so if you have parents with a land line or something you could use that number ;) I do n't know a cheap way to call from China using a physical phone , unfortunately .
Is it usual , no . Does it happen , yes . Baggage travels from the terminal to plane side in a variety of conveyances , some which are covered and protected from rain , some which are not . And unfortunately , there is really no covered area plane side where they could move the uncovered baggage cart to if it starts raining . While you may see the ramp staff hide under the wing during rains , safety rules often prohibit the tugs and baggage carts from going under the wing ( especially on smaller planes that would have hand loading ) . For the most part you probably need not worry about it , but it never hurts to consider how you are flying and through which cities . If your flights involve smaller aircraft ( 737 , 757 , A320 , RJ , prop planes , etc ) and you are flying through a city where frequent showers occur , then protecting things inside your bag ( especially those that might be damaged by water ) might be warranted . Otherwise , I would n't be too concerned .
It 's true that you can often see details of the aircraft on the website now , so you could have some expectations or think you have a contractual agreement to be flown on that aircraft . But in practice , airlines merely promise a best effort to bring you somewhere and can and do do a lot of things ( switch airplanes , reschedule , cancel a flight outright , change the itinerary or even the means of transportation , etc. ) that impact the conditions in which you will travel . In this particular case , if you check Turkish airlines ' <URL> , you will read that Carrier undertakes to use its best efforts to carry the passenger and his or her baggage with reasonable dispatch and to adhere to published schedules in effect on the date of travel . That 's really pretty vague , they do n't promise much beyond getting you to your destination ( or , in fact , merely trying to get you to your destination ) . Even regulations on monetary compensations for significant delays or the right to be informed about the name of the airline operating the flight ( not the actual aircraft or aircraft type but simply the name of the airline ) are relatively recent so it does not seem they have to do more than that as far as the law is concerned . Note that in the EU , there are <URL> so it certainly seems rational for the airline to bring you as soon as possible to Madrid in a slightly less comfortable aircraft rather than wait for the other one to show up and possibly be liable to pay some compensation to all passengers .
If you use credit cards , then you should check into the member benefits ( if any ) associated with that card because your credit card company may automatically provide some sort of flight insurance / baggage protection if you purchase the plane ticket using that card . For example : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are some routes where this is applied ; for example from the ME to Asia there are special exceptions on luggage weight on some airlines ( Kuwait Airways , for example ) . A few airlines I have flown on before have such allowances ; but I have only heard of them for students and repatriation ; but not for immigration and then not between those two countries specifically . A while ago , there was some hope : Singapore Airlines offer a double baggage allowance ( from the usual 20Kg to 40Kg ) providing you are holding an unused migrant visa that states to remain in Australia indefinitely . If you hold a valid visa , you will be entitled to the double baggage allowance on production of the visa at check-in . However I can not find this reference anywhere on the current website .
There are blogs on the subject of what actually happens with the confiscated items : <URL> <URL> and there are a few others . Basically TSA confiscated items that can be resold are being resold through the Surplus program run by the state where the airport is located . So for example in Pennsylvania <URL> administers such a program , so if you want buy something it would either be at the Harrisburg Warehouse or listed on <URL> .
Probably not ( but it does not hurt to ask ) . RyanAir as actually a Q/A section that answers the question " can i book a seat for my luggage " . If taken verbatim this seems to apply almost exclusively to musical instruments , you would need to ask if your CP30 falls under those exceptions . However they give maximum dimensions , so if your robot exceeds those you already have your answer . From <URL> . Sporting or musical equipment including but not limited to large fishing rods , golf clubs , bikes * ( bikes have a weight limit of 30 kilos ) , scooters , fencing equipment , boules , pole vaults , javelin , surfboards , bodyboards , snowboards and skis and large musical instruments including but not limited to harps , double bass and drums are inherently unsuitable for carriage by airlines operating fast turnarounds such as Ryanair . However , these items may be carried in the hold of the aircraft in addition to your personal checked baggage allowance up to a limit of 20 kilos per item . Fees apply , click here for details . Any sporting and musical item weighing over the 20 kilos allowance will be charged for the excess at the applicable excess baggage rate per kilo . Bicycles - MUST be contained in a protective box or protective bike bag in order to be accepted for travel . Electric bicycles can not be transported by plane . Smaller musical items such as a guitar , violin or viola which exceed our cabin baggage dimensions may be carried in the cabin if a seat for it has been reserved and the appropriate fare paid . There is no checked or cabin baggage allowance associated with the purchase of an extra seat . To book an extra seat for an item the word " ITEM SEAT " must be entered as the surname and " EXTRA " must be entered at the first name . EXTRA ITEM SEAT will then be displayed on the reservation and online boarding pass . The accompanying passenger 's travel document details must be entered during the online check - in process . Reserved seating in emergency rows 1,16 and 17 may not be purchased if you have purchased an extra seat for item/comfort . For health and safety reasons Ryanair does not accept for carriage any individual item exceeding 32 kilos or with combined dimensions of more than 81cms ( height ) , 119cms ( width ) and 119cms ( depth ) . This weight limit does not apply to mobility equipment .
Not really . There used to be one with American Airlines . There 's a reason they ca n't do it though , and it 's people like <URL> . He 'd fly to another country just for lunch , because he could . In today 's air travel climate , you need to make some money on each seat , it 's getting harder and harder to do with the competitive industry that it is . Jetblue tried it in 2009 . <URL> . At least , that was the answer a year or so ago . Suddenly , a couple of incidents have changed this . <URL> . There are lots of conditions , however . And now just two months ago <URL> is attempting to be a startup offering unlimited flights for $ 1500 a month plus free checked bags precheck and wifi . However , if you 're a semi-frequent business flyer you could clock that up pretty fast , so it 'll be interesting to see how long they last . However , aside from these occasional anomalies , there 's really no such thing any longer . It 's too expensive , and too risky for the airlines to do , aside from perhaps as a promotional ( short-lived ) endeavour .
The bag will remain on the claim belt until eventually an airport worker removes it and takes it to lost property . If the claim belt is used for many flights at a busy airport then of course that could be a long time ( all day , perhaps ) . It is not unusual for international bags to go unclaimed for a long time ( many hours perhaps ) because of immigration delays . In most places bag delivery is contracted out to the local airport or a local contractor , so the airline will not be concerned . The bag tag barcode on the bag identifies the baggage in the global baggage computer system . Information there also includes your name and telephone number , which might be used to contact you . However in all probability no one will care that much . Some identification may be required to retrieve the bag later . If there is a customs concern the airport may be unable to release the bag to you until that is settled . When there was a problem at London Gatwick last year , British Airways told customers to go home instead of waiting all night ; their bags were subsequently delivered to them by courier .
Officially the only reason you 'll need your old passport is if it contains any visas that are still current - despite being in the old passport these visas are generally still valid . If this is the case , then obviously you 'll just want to carry your passport with you . If you have no visas , then the best advise I can give you is to put your old passport in one of your bags ( preferably one of the bags you check-in ) . In the event that you lose your current passport - especially if in a foreign country - having your old passport will make the process of obtaining a replacement much easier . Personally I have my previous passport in an envelope containing some spare cash , a spare ATM card , and an old Drivers License . To date I 've never needed any of these , but it 's good to know they are there if I ever need them !
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
As has been pointed out by several people in the comments , your question is similar to the question <URL> , and indeed that question does give some relevant advice - however there is a little bit more to it in this case . Priority Pass currently have 4 lounges available at LHR - A ServisAir lounge in each of terminals 1 and 3 , the No 1 Heathrow lounge in terminal 3 , and the Air Canada Arrivals Lounge in Terminal 3 . The first 3 of these lounges are AIRSIDE , and thus the " shopping " question above will give you your answer - you can not access them from terminal 5 . The last lounge - the Air Canada lounge - is LANDSIDE , and thus presuming you are able to enter the UK ( ie , you have a relevant visa and/or do not require a visa ) then at first it may appear that you could go through immigrations , and then catch the bus to terminal 3 to access this lounge . However , unfortunately , that 's not the case . The Air Canada lounge only allows access for Priority Pass customers who are arriving on a flight that arrives into terminal 3 . As you arrived into terminal 5 you will NOT be allowed access this lounge . So unfortunately , no , you will not be able to access any of the lounges in terminal 1 or 3 .
end question
start question
Are train tickets in Hungary cheaper if bought in advance ?
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
It depends on the item . Alcoholic spirits ( whiskey etc ) and tobacco are the usual items to get , since they typically are the most heavily taxed items , so can be considerably cheaper at Duty Free than in either country . Usually you 'll be able to get all of the major name-brand items , and sometimes some regional items ( eg . Jenevers - Dutch gins - if in Amsterdam , or Icelandic spirit Brennivín if departing Reykjavík ) , but often best not to count on it . Note that if you purchase spirits you might run into complications with regulations allowing or limiting liquids on flights . Usually you should be fine if it 's a non-stop flight , you 'll typically get the bottles in a special sealed and marked bag . But it might be trickier if the flight has transfers that include additional security checks ; you may or may not have an opportunity to transfer the liquids to checked baggage . Duty Free stores at airports also tend to have selections of perfumes , jewelry , and some electronics , but I 've no idea how good value those are . There 's also assorted candy and gifts available . I suspect some of these are often aimed more at guilting a traveller who feels obliged to return with some sort of gift to his/her sweetie or kids rather than actually representing good value . Found a couple of articles that seem to back up the " go for the booze and cigs " angle : <URL> <URL> advises you to take local exchange rates into account also . ( Suspect you may not get the best prices if flying out of somewhere that 's expensive to begin with ! )
The <URL> of the airport website says : L'heure limite d'enregistrement est fixée à 20 minutes avant l'heure du départ du vol pour les vols domestiques . Elle est portée à 40 minutes pour les vols européens . So , check-in ends 20 min before flight departure for domestic flights , and 40 minutes before departure for european flights . You can also try to call the airport at +33 2 98 94 30 30
When it 's open , you 're allowed to cross the line . <URL> . I had never actually heard that before , so I assume everybody else reasons the same way I did : it 's an open lane , you 're obviously supposed to use it as a perfectly normal lane , so the fact that it can only be reached by crossing an uncrossable line must be a visual illusion that can be safely ignored :-) It 's a normal lane in every respect , so you have to move there if there is no reason not to , and when in one , you ca n't overtake cars that drive in lanes further to the left . An important detail is that you should only look at the digital signs above the lane to decide whether the lane is open ( as you mentioned correctly ) , not at other signage to the side of the road . When the lane is open there is no emergency lane anymore , so when someone has to make an emergency stop , dangerous situations can arise . It will be immediately closed by means of the digital signs above the lane in that case ( turn into a red cross ) , but the signs at the side probably wo n't change .
So your flight is an international flight . The airport is fairly small , with just 5-6 restaurants , has wifi and opens officially at 4.30 am in the morning . To make sure , I 'd always check the advice of the airport 's website itself . In this case , the official <URL> says : It is advised that you arrive at the airport in plenty of time . The length of time prior to departure depends on the airline , so remember to check what time that applies to you . The usual attendance times are . On that advice , I 'd try and get there at least a bit earlier - but would consider risking it if it was me . But understand that if you are late and were n't there 90 min beforehand , the airline is not likely to be sympathetic :(
You should not have an issue finding a good hotel in Shanghai or Hong Kong . There are plenty of them in both cities and they are well advertised , especially to tourists . For you it would come down to prices . With early planning , you can easily find very good hotels for a fair price . Both of these two cities are very expensive but if you dont mind the pricing , go ahead and book whenever you arrive there .
That is more or less correct . Tickets are available starting 5 days before departure and have to be bought in person . Travel agencies can act as a proxy to buy on your behalf , but they also have to physically go to the train station to buy your ticket . I would guess this agency 's specification of dates has been simply padded a bit to cover things like holidays , weekends or such that might delay buying or sending tickets .
Taipei to Keelung is effectively a suburban service , there are trains every 15-20 minutes and reservations are not required ( or even possible for most trains ? ) . And even for long-distance trains , advance reservations are generally not necessary , unless you 're traveling at peak season ( eg . Chinese New Year ) or on some special train ( eg . the Alishan Mountain Railway ) .
No , you ca n't use PackStation as a transient traveler . To use it , you must be able to pre-register and then receive the registration materials via mail . So you must be in one place long enough to complete this process ( a few weeks minimum ) . I do n't remember whether you actually have to show proof of residency , but the above practical problem will prevent you from using PackStation if you are only " passing through " .
Book it when you get there . Most cooking classes - even the popular ones near Bangkok 's Khao San Road - are never full . Just book them a day before you plan to attend , although sometimes you can also walk in on the day itself . Source : I did n't attend a class , but I looked around and spoke to cooking class place owners and people who took them at my hostel . I ultimately decided not to because I found them a tad expensive for my budget .
Usually May is a peak season because of the summer in the Philippines . Many people go to Boracay or Bagiuo . Bagiuo is the best place to go because of the cool area . It is colder than most places in the Philippines . Should you book a room in advance ? Well it depends what you are planning to do and where . Booking in advance gives you usually a better price than being in front of the hotel counter . Especially hotel websites give an instant 10 % discount if you in advance . This is their strategy to get hotel rooms booked . However , the busiest places are the usually the high priced hotels and well located . If you roam around in to the outskirt of the city or keep on searching for pensions you can get a very decent deal . They are usually not well known or they are hardly recognized as a hotel or pension . These places usually have rooms vacant and the price is low . Do not expect too much from these hotels , the standards are usually lower . If you truly ca n`t find anything try Sogo Hotel or Mircotel hotel . These hotels are usually cheap but they have a very specific clientel . Not many people want to be seen in this hotel but if you need a place this would be a last option . For weather details . In June the season is switching from Summer to Rain season . Typhoons are usually common in this season . So be prepared for much rain .
Yes , you can , it even seems to be the expected behaviour . All three alliances have restrictions and rules , from basic expected ones like a maximum number of miles to some random and precise ones like a forbidden combination of carriers ( " When a QF ( Qantas ) marketed , NU ( Japan Transocean Air ) operated flight is part of an itinerary , IB ( Iberia ) ticket stock can not be utilized . " ) . Overall , the same basic conditions regarding flight planning apply to all three alliances : you should get the first ticket about a week before your first flight ( a priori a firm booking with a specific flight on a specific date ) , you should plan all the stops you are going to make , in advance , but not necessarily the dates ( and exact flight number , or even carrier ) . It does not mention precisely how to make these changes for free ( online or at the airport ) , even though the mention of " local fees " probably means you can at least show up at the airport and book a specific flight for an extra fee . Here you can see in details each alliance policy and conditions page : for <URL> , look for " 4.1 . Change of Plans " in the help and it mentions that " Change of travel dates , carriers or flights is free of charge . " ( I suppose that " flight " means in fact flight number ) . for <URL> , the fees for changes are : " USD 0 for date/time/flight number changes ( other than the first sector ) ( local service fee may apply ) " for <URL> , " All remaining flights may be left open ( i.e. without confirmed flight numbers and dates ) , as long as each flight is reserved prior to departure . Tickets can be booked or issued up to one hour before departure in some countries . " So in the end , the change of flight is a basic allowed modification of round-the-world tickets . However , be careful with all rules that apply , it might be worth reading the terms and conditions when you picked an alliance , as buying such a ticket involves thousands of dollars and may impact months of travel .
Most countries except for the UK , USA , Ireland , Mexico and Canada impose formal exit checks in the same way they impose entry checks . ( I am excluding passenger information being submitted to governments , by exit check , I mean all departing passengers queue up and an immigration officer looks at every outgoing passport . ) Therefore unless you are exiting one of those above-mentioned countries , there are formal exit controls . Travelling within the Schengen zone of course involves no passport control , because it is designed as one immigration zone , but when you leave the zone there is an exit control . There may be further exceptions ( please reply in the comments ) but actually I can think of none off the top of my head .
Officially Qantas allow bookings up to 353 days in advance , although if you 're booking through a 3rd party that can sometimes be reduced down to 330 days which is more of an industry standard . The exact number of days ( or at least , your perception of it ! ) can also vary slightly depending on timezones - Sydney is 10 or 11 hours ahead of the UK , thus it can already be " tomorrow " in Sydney when it 's still " today " in the UK . In the case of Avios , it looks like they allow the full 353 days . Currently the Qantas Australia website is allowing me to view flights up to December 25 , 2013 . The BA/Avios website allows me to select days up until December 26 , but actually looking for the 26th shows no flights available on Qantas . Picking two typical routes ( SYD-BNE and SYD-LAX ) the availability appears to be exactly the same on both the Qantas and Avios websites for the 24th and the 25th of December , which matches what I 've seen before when comparing the two . As an aside , redeeming Avios points for most Qantas domestic flights is an excellent use of them - the redemption rates are far better than even Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the same flights !
If you try and use the contactless Oyster twice in a row ( ie to let a second person through on your card ) for a trip from A to B , it 'll error . You 're required to touch out first before you can touch in again , and then the first person would n't be allowed to travel as they 've touched out at A. Source : <URL> : Number of people using an Oyster card Only one Oyster card can be used per person per journey . That means if you are travelling in a group , each person will have to use a separate Oyster card , or find another way to pay for their journey . Second Source : I 've tried this . And asked about it at the time . You need one card for each travelling passenger . Third source : <URL> Note : This is for Oyster cards , the primary TFL cards when I was in London . For other recent contactless cards , <URL> .
Booking Sri-Lankan Train Tickets Online <URL> says that to date the only tickets that are bookable online are those for the <URL> and <URL> carriages for the Colombo-Kandy-Badulla journey . The regular trains can not be booked online ( quoting from <URL> ) : How to buy tickets ... The privately-run ExpoRail &amp; Rajadhani carriages Colombo-Kandy-Badulla can be booked online at www.exporail.lk &amp; www.rajadhani.lk . The regular Sri Lanka Railways trains can not be booked online , but it 's easy to buy tickets when you get to Sri Lanka at the station . In Colombo , there is a special ticket window for tourists in the 1st &amp; 2nd class advance booking office at the east end of Colombo Fort station . Since you wish to travel on the Colombo-Kandi stretch , you 'll be able to book that part of the journey on the Rajadhani in advance . <URL> . If you 'd rather take the InterCity train , then you 'll have to go to the ticket office in person or send someone on your behalf . Also note that reservations open 45 days before departure ( quoting from <URL> ) : Reservations for trains with reserved seating such as InterCity Express trains open 45 days in advance ( extended from 10 days in late 2013 ) . Seats in the 1st class observation car from Colombo to Kandy can get fully-booked from time to time , so book a few days ahead if you can , but you may well find seats available on the day of travel . Other trains ( shown as having unreserved seats ) do n't require a reservation , you just buy a ticket on and hop on . Purchasing Tickets in Advance <URL> suggests one possible alternative to online booking : using local travel agencies . The linked site has a few agencies listed . Note that these will obviously charge a fee for the booking . <URL> This is also a valid option , which will probably require you to pay an extra fee to the hotel , or at least tip the staff . The Man also mentions this on the linked page .
Yes , it is worth purchasing Amtrak tickets as early as possible . Amtrak does practice yield management , although it is not nearly as sophisticated as the airlines in this regard . Fares will increase closer to the date and time of travel . Equally importantly , however , Amtrak has a relatively generous change policy in that if your plans change , you only need to pay the fare difference , without a penalty or change fee . If someone purchased a ticket in a low fare bucket and then cancels it close to the departure , sometimes the seat gets released for the original price ; however , this is not something you can count on .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
With regular NS trains ( intercity 's , sprinter 's and stoptrains ) booking in advance does not give you any discount . If you would travel with a NS HiSpeed train this could be the case , but there 's no direct HiSpeed connection between Eindhoven and Amsterdam , so it 's irrelevant to your journey . There 's a direct train between Eindhoven and Amsterdam Central Station which would cost you $ 17.90 one way . If you buy the ticket at the counter , instead of at the machine , you 'll have to pay an additional $ 0.5 . If you 're really tight on money you could look for someone who looks like a student and ask politely if you can travel " together " . 90 % off all students has a card which gives them and 3 fellow travellers a 40 % reduction on any train journey . Fellow travellers can make use of this system after 09:00 on weekdays , the whole day during weekends and also the whole day during the months July and August . When I was a student I 've had this question asked several times . When a conductor asked the other person why he had a ticket with 40 % discount , I would just say that we travelled together , making the discounted ticket valid .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
end question
start question
In Bulgaria do fast food chains , convenience stores , or petrol stations typically accept credit cards for small purchases ?
What Mark Mayo said is basically correct . Some other tips/notes : You should have no problems making purchases with a credit card in any petrol station in Bulgaria . Same applies to international chains such as McDonalds , Subway , Billa , Metro , Lidl etc. . Coffee shops , bars and restaurants , as well as clothing and apparel stores will usually accept credit cards , unless they are decidedly of the low-cost/fast-food variety . A hard-and-fast rule : if it looks fancy or is a brand name you recognize , it should n't be a problem , especially in big cities . I 'm not sure whether there 's a hard limit on the minimum amount of purchase , but if paying by card is an option , anything above $ 3 - $ 4 should be okay . Paying with card for travelling ( e.g. city transportation , trains , buses ) is particularly troublesome , and you probably wo n't be able to do it anywhere , so I 'd always keep cash on hand for that . If you just want to get something to eat at a random place you see on the street ( especially at night ) , chances are they wo n't accept your card . There 's a small possibility that your card wo n't work with some POS terminals , for inexplicable reasons -- I had this problem a few times with my foreign-issued VISA while shopping in Bulgaria . Most commonly accepted credit card types are VISA , VISA Electron , MasterCard , Maestro ( debit cards ) . If you have some other card operator , be prepared for a major disappointment . Disclaimer : I am Bulgarian .
Specific to Paris ( and vegetarian food ) : There are many Indian restaurants next to Gare du Nord , on Rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis , which has a significant Tamil presence . <URL> has many Indian restaurants too . Quality can vary , but I specifically recommend two restaurants , <URL> and <URL> , both Chennai-based south Indian vegetarian restaurant chains . For the best value for money , try the mini tiffin at Sangeetha - a ( smaller than usual ) masala dosa , idly , sambar , chutneys , pongal , rava kesari , and filter coffee at only $ 7 ( yes , that is a good price ! ) . There are other cheaper restaurants in the vicinity , but they are n't that good . ( Mini tiffin ( coffee not shown ) ) Even cheaper , there is a place called <URL> , which serves vegetarian Punjabi food . It 's just next to the northern terminus of Metro 7 , rather far from central Paris . The decor and furniture is basic , and the restaurant looks like it could very well be in a small town in north India . A full meal consisting of 3 rotis or 2 nans , with a sabji and dal ( and perhaps rice ? I 'm not sure ) , is only $ 5 , while chhole bhature is $ 3.50 . If you 're in Paris for only a few days , it 's probably not worth spending the time to go here . There are several north Indian restaurants in Paris , at Passage Brady and other places , I do n't have much to say about them . Even if one does n't want to experiment much with food , it 's worthwhile to try some other foods which are very close to Indian in taste . For example , Lebanese food can be quite similar to Indian food : try the falafel ( a kind of vada ) , at <URL> ( sandwich with 5 balls of falafel , and salad from a buffet at $ 4.90 ) , or the rolls ( " manakiche " ) at <URL> , particularly the " batata " ( potato ) which could pass off as Indian ( $ 4.20 ) . Then you have Mexican/Tex-Mex burritos - a large chapati , rolled up , and inside it rice , rajma , possibly meat ( not necessarily ) , some vegetables , salad , cheese , cream , and sauce ( can be spicy ! ) . Typically this is made in front of you , and you can ask them to add or not add specific items . I 'd recommend <URL> and <URL> on Rue Mouffetard ( $ 6.50 - 7 ) , or <URL> ( better than the previous two , and at $ 9.30 ) . You could also try <URL> - a sandwich with your chosen subset of tomato , onion , peppers , olives , cucumber , cheese , lettuce , sauces , etc , and various kinds of meat ( 30cm vegetarian is $ 6 ) . If I had to pick just one place , I 'd pick Sangeetha . All these places are open all days of the week , at lunch as well as dinner times . The prices are as of April/May 2015 . Avoid buying beverages or any packaged food such as chips at restaurants , they are expensive - buy them cheaper at a supermarket instead . Enjoy your trip !
I live in Turkey and travel to Bulgaria regularly . ( ~ 20 times now ) . My general idea would be that this might be easier to find in Bulgaria as long as you were in one of the major cities . Turkey does n't seem to have this stuff just anywhere . That being said , it 's cheap-ish generic gear can be found at some major markets in Turkey , so I 'd be inclined to hit up a few stores and pick something up before I hit the road .
Credit card numbers are nation specific . The first numbers of the CC number indicate the country where the card originates from . While a french card might work perfectly well in real life , in some case it does n't online . I have a similar issue with my Dutch credit card , while I live in Belgium , so Belgian address , with a CC with a Dutch number ( I do work in the Netherlands , hence the Dutch card ) . There is no way I can for example pay in Apple 's App store , nor in iTunes . I am getting similar messages like you , when I try . Everywhere else in Belgium there is no issue when I pay . In this specific case , the only solution is to buy the iTunes vouchers in the supermarket . I suspect that you are facing a similar issue . I guess it boils down to fraud protection . While in real life they can verify who you are ( signature , pin code etc ) , online they have to trust you . Unfortunately , in many cases an online payment in one country , with a credit card from another country , where the delivery address is n't even in the same country usually is online fraud . Some vendors then simply block payments from cards originating from other countries . In my case a verification on my address to which the card is registered would proof my card to be legit , but I guess if even Apple does n't want to do that , many other wo n't either .
45x38x11 cm is above the size that Ryanair say they will definitely allow in the cabin ( 35x20x20 cm ) but below the maximum size of hand luggage ( 55x40x20 cm ) so if it 's your only piece of hand luggage you might be allowed to take it on , and if not it will be carried in the hold for free . In my experience , when they insist that passengers gate check their luggage they are mainly looking for the big wheely suitcases which just fit in the cage at all . The main limitation is on overhead locker space , so if your bag looks like it will fit under the seat in front of you then you 're probably OK .
You can pay for almost everything by Visa or Mastercard in Paris . There might be a minimum purchase amount of a few euros ; 5 or 10 euros used to be common but many places have lowered that minimum . There are only a few places where you should expect to have to pay in cash : Street stalls , e.g. markets . Some merchants will take cards but not all . Markets are the best place to buy produce ( do n't buy produce from a French supermarket ) . Shops that mostly sell low-ticket items -- mostly bakeries . Many do n't take cards , and the ones that do wo n't take them for just a croissant . Maybe some cafés in out-of-the-way neighborhoods ( but definitely not cafés in any halfway upscale or touristy place ) . I 've never seen a place that took Mastercard and not Visa or vice versa . On the other hand , most shops do n't take American Express , apart from hotels , upscale restaurants and fashion stores .
It 's only larger stores that offer this , but you can always ask . I found a <URL> where someone claimed the Apple stores do offer tax free purchases .
A few tidbits about Visa Debit cards ( from the USA I am guessing ) . While they work in all USA ATMs , as you discovered they are not always tied to the Plus ATM network so you need to make sure the ATM machine displays the Visa logo . If you have a choice , when outside the USA the card should be treated as a " credit card " not a " debit card " when used for POS ( points of sale ) transactions ( food , stores , gas , etc ) . The USA systems for pin based debit transactions are n't link to many countries outside . Many banks now limit the cash advance amount to the same as your ATM withdrawal limit . They used to allow you to withdraw up to your daily limit for purchases , but now most treat the advance the same as ATM transactions . If the ATM asks what account , what we call a " checking " account , many countries call a " current " account . Always let your bank known you will be traveling and where .
Primanti brothers is an excellent and iconic sandwich place in Pittsburgh . <URL> has a list of notable mentions this enterprise has received . There are multiple locations in the city . <URL> is the second tallest university building in the world and houses 29 <URL> which are a must visit . The <URL> is an incline plan railroad first started in 1887 , scaling Mt.Washington and having a brilliant view of the Pittsburgh downtown and the confluence of the Allegheny , Ohio and the Monogahela rivers . If you are the type , there are a bunch of museums including The Carnegie Museum of Natural History , the Hienz History Center detailing the sports legacies of the Steelers and The Andy Warhol Museum ( Andy Warhol was a native of Pittsburgh and a leading figure in the pop art movement ) . Also , if you are interested in bridges , Pittsburgh has the world record for most bridges , I beleive 446 of them , beating Venice which was historically considered the City of Bridges . P.S. . This does not strictly come under the city of Pittsburgh , but an hour 's drive from the city is Frank Lloyd Wright 's famous <URL> .
Since the card is prepaid , is there any reason to not keep using it until it cuts off ? You might want to keep it for voice use only ( where roaming charges are not as high ) as a backup or when you enter a new country and do n't have a local SIM card yet . Theoretically , you can also cash out unused credit under some circumstances , but it 's probably not worth the hassle . ( And when we that be ? There 's $ 10 of voice credit with the account . ) It depends on the details of your Belgian provider 's terms of service , but typically the roaming data usage will eat into that credit , and once it 's used up ( probably after a few MB ) it will stop working . There are some prepaid plans that will automatically top up the credit from your bank account or credit card every time it runs out , but this is usually a feature you have to activate separately ( and should , of course , avoid ) .
I 'm guessing you are mis-understanding the definition of a " temporary visitor " in the sense that it is used on that website . In order to receive a Drivers License or ID card in Texas , you must be a resident of the state , and must be able to prove that fact . The " Temporary " refers to the fact that you can be a resident of the state , but not a " permanent resident " - such as if you are in the country on a long-term work visa . So yes , the UK does have something similar to what Texas has in that non-permanent residents can apply for an ID card/Drivers license - but no , you will not be able to receive one if you are visiting for a week .
Fast Lanes Are a No As you correctly point out , the UK is one of those countries where vehicles drive on the left hand lane . This means that overtaking is done by passing vehicles on the right . I do n't think that a the concept of a fast lane exists on UK motorways since one should always occupy the leftmost free lane and switch to adjacent lanes on the right solely to overtake . Indeed this is reflected <URL> : Rule 264 You should always drive in the left-hand lane when the road ahead is clear . If you are overtaking a number of slower-moving vehicles , you should return to the left-hand lane as soon as you are safely past . So Is Undertaking For completeness sake note that undertaking , I.e. passing vehicles on their inside ( left ) lane is forbidden in the UK , except for when dense traffic conditions force vehicle to proceed slowly on parallel lanes . Quoting from <URL> : Rule 268 Do not overtake on the left or move to a lane on your left to overtake . In congested conditions , where adjacent lanes of traffic are moving at similar speeds , traffic in left-hand lanes may sometimes be moving faster than traffic to the right . In these conditions you may keep up with the traffic in your lane even if this means passing traffic in the lane to your right . Do not weave in and out of lanes to overtake .
Unfortunately , Dividend Miles is a " dead-end " program . The <URL> turns up nothing , and even a <URL> is now impossible . Some of this reflects general cutbacks in frequent flyer programs and some of it reflects the pending merger with American Airlines . Dividend Miles will almost certainly be merged into the much larger AAdvantage program , or into a new successor program , so there is no point to adding new partnerships . I do advise you , however , to keep the account active until you can redeem from it . If you participate in AAdvantage , these miles will be transferred or converted to that account within the next 12 -- 18 months ( if the Delta/Northwest and United/Continental mergers can be cited as precedent ) . If you do n't regularly fly OneWorld and have not been consolidating your miles in another OneWorld program , this could be the one to keep accruing to until you can spend them on something useful . <URL> in your Dividend Miles account will refresh your activity date , no matter how small . Charging $ 1 on your DM credit card to earn one mile would be good enough , or getting 6 issues of Cigar Aficionado for 400 miles would be good enough . And there are many <URL> ( RDMs ) . You do not specify how long you have before expiration , but let us assume it is less than the 60 days you should allow for credit from a program partner . Fortunately , you can still <URL> miles , which will reset your activity counter within a day . Miles to purchase cost $ 0.035 per mile plus 7.5 % tax ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 37.63 . Miles to share with a friend or family member cost $ 0.01 per mile 7.5 % tax and a $ 30 processing fee per transaction ; the minimum number is 1000 , so your minimum spend is $ 40.75 . You can reactivate the account . The fee for doing so is a sliding scale based on the mileage balance : $ 10 for 1 -- 4,999 miles , $ 50 for 5,000 -- 19,999 miles , <URL> . There is no fee to donate miles . The minimum number to donate is 1000 . If you do not have an AAdvantage account and truly do not foresee ever needing one ( e.g. you accrue your OneWorld miles to a different program ) , it would be reasonable to drain the account by buying magazines and newspapers -- or gifting them to a friend , school , library , etc. -- or by donating them . But do drain it ; there is no point to letting miles expire , as they are then of no use to anyone .
Find out what car rental companies are available at your destination , then call/email them to ask . Try to ensure whoever you ask checks policy rather than just answering what they think is right - because you may find whoever is at the desk on the day you collect has a different idea , and it could be important to show them the correct answer . I 'd also be keen to check if the law of the countries you intened to drive in are happy with this arrangement . In some European countries you can be compelled to hand over your license when stopped by law enforcement and there is of course the possibility you get into an incident of some form . It could be problematic if it turns out that you were breaking the law with a driving license not in your legal name .
First , you did a good thing , there was no comeback , and so it 's all good . But I want to answer your more general question for other people in that situation , Many buffets have and explicit ' no leftovers no sharing ' policy , if they do n't make it explicit up front then they undoubtedly will if you start abusing the buffet . So while sneaking someone a few chicken wings ( or whatever ) may go unnoticed it becomes a slippery slope to feeding a ton of other people for free . And , if you 're caught , they will attempt to make you pay . If you get caught the best case is you pay for a buffet for an extra person , worst case -- if the buffet is included in the room rate -- you pay for an extra room . While I would have done what you did I would probably recommend other people to offer a little money to the towel boy , or offer to take him for breakfast somewhere else . The chances are the hotel knows about this and are OK with it , but it 's also possible that it 's a setup for a scam which is why it might be better to offer something else . But you should never feel unable to say no if it 's something you 're not comfortable with . I do n't want to sound boorish but it 's OK not to give if you do n't want to . I do n't imagine you 're the first person the boy has hit up for food , nor will you be the last . Similarly I 'd wager that he 's pretty used to being refused and it 's not going to affect him . Sure it might make you feel bad , but then I suspect that 's the point . You could try and address the larger problem ( that the hotel employees ? or hangers-on do n't make enough ) either via the hotel website or other review sites . But that 's not really what you asked . In short , if you want to help , offer some help in some other way , because sliding stuff off the buffet has potential to get you in a heap of trouble . But , if you do n't want to help , do n't be afraid to say no .
Short answer : No , it will be collected by the caterer upon arrival . Long answer , Airlines do not actually handle catering , the catering companies do handle this . Airlines will have a catering partner in every airport they operate flights to . In domestic flights where the airplanes is scheduled to have a few sectors assignment ( pairing in airlines terminology ) sometimes the outbound flight is catered for more that one sector at once . For example if the pairing contains short flights ( domestic usually ) like going from A to B then back to A the caterer in A will provide double catering to the crew which is usually juices in short sectors , the crew will use the same catering in both legs , but these juice cartons/bottles are ok to reuse and they are not touched directly by passengers . Airlines do the double catering to save money and to make the ground time between flights shorter . Anyway this wo n't work in long international sectors . In long pairings that contains mid/long haul flights where the aircraft will be catered in each sector , usually each sector will be covered by a different caterer , each caterer will offload the previous used carts and supply the flight with new full carts . You can never know what does the caterer do to the excess food . Each caterer have its own policy depending on the company and local regulations . In the company I work the major caterer for the company do NOT reuse any items , they simply throw it . I have a friend who worked there he told me once that the employees are allowed to take from the returned items on their own responsibility . Do not know about other airlines , but some items like soda cans for example are safe to reuse , I guess they donate it or even resell it ! One last thing , airlines do not expect the catering on board to be returned , they supply the flight with food and beverages enough to passengers and crew and may be supply few extra meals just in case .
What Mark Mayo said is basically correct . Some other tips/notes : You should have no problems making purchases with a credit card in any petrol station in Bulgaria . Same applies to international chains such as McDonalds , Subway , Billa , Metro , Lidl etc. . Coffee shops , bars and restaurants , as well as clothing and apparel stores will usually accept credit cards , unless they are decidedly of the low-cost/fast-food variety . A hard-and-fast rule : if it looks fancy or is a brand name you recognize , it should n't be a problem , especially in big cities . I 'm not sure whether there 's a hard limit on the minimum amount of purchase , but if paying by card is an option , anything above $ 3 - $ 4 should be okay . Paying with card for travelling ( e.g. city transportation , trains , buses ) is particularly troublesome , and you probably wo n't be able to do it anywhere , so I 'd always keep cash on hand for that . If you just want to get something to eat at a random place you see on the street ( especially at night ) , chances are they wo n't accept your card . There 's a small possibility that your card wo n't work with some POS terminals , for inexplicable reasons -- I had this problem a few times with my foreign-issued VISA while shopping in Bulgaria . Most commonly accepted credit card types are VISA , VISA Electron , MasterCard , Maestro ( debit cards ) . If you have some other card operator , be prepared for a major disappointment . Disclaimer : I am Bulgarian .
I think you were disappointed because the most famous Lao dishes have become popular in Thailand and a lot of the food you find in Laos without a local to help is n't really Lao food but Thai , Vietnamese , Chinese , and French food . The most famous Lao dishes have to be larb and green papaya salad . I never saw these on offer in non-touristy Surat Thani in Thailand , but they were everywhere in Khao San in Bangkok and of course in Isan , which has a Lao ethnic majority . It turns out that all the stir fries you see in Laos are not Laotian . They 're all originally Chinese though some have come through Thailand 's cultural filter such as pad thai . The same for curries . The ones you see in Laos are due to Thai influence . The same word " gaeng " , which means " curry " in Thailand usually means " soup " in Laos . I do n't think French food has influenced Lao food greatly , it 's mainly stayed separate . But when I finally found where to buy local baguettes around the bus station , I barely recognized any of the ingredients . Apparently the main staple Laos regard as Lao food is the sticky rice ( <URL> ) . I thought I 'd had sticky rice before because some rice is stickier than other rice . But the sticky rice here comes in little woven pot/baskets , is super duper sticky almost like play doh . Here the staff in my guest house have it every day with a spicy salad , some raw leaf vegetable I ca n't identify , and some meat or fish . I 'm sure this is also in Thailand but again it 's a Lao ethnic food that you can get in Thailand - not a Thai food . But I 'm just a traveller sussing out the food here . I 'm no expert . Did you wander through the night market in Vientiane and see all this : One thing I found is a local dish similar to laksa of Malaysia/Singapore/Indonesia . I do n't know if it 's related or just a coincidence . It 's called <URL> : As an unexpected bonus a Lao who grew up here but lives in Thailand and has pretty good English has checked in to my hostel so we 're gon na wander around and I 'm gon na ask him about Lao food ( - :
No , it 's not " always " an option . Most taxis do take credit cards , and specifically in Tokyo virtually all do ; but some do n't , so you ca n't rely on this . Minimum fares of up to & yen ; 5000 may also apply . One interesting alternative is transport smart cards : most visitors to Japan will have a Pasmo/Suica/etc , which are also increasingly accepted by taxis ( look for a little decal on the window as you get in ) . They 're very fast to use too ( tap ! ) and have no surcharges , minimum fares or other hassle .
For me , having a kitchen is one of the defining qualities of a hostel . I 'm sure there 's some that do n't have a kitchen but the vast majority do and should . If you want to meet people I would definitely suggest hostelling . Read online reviews though to find a hostel which suits your style . Some are heavy on partying and others are more family oriented for example . One advantage is that there are many great hostels all over Canada so unlike with renting an apartment you can still travel all over the place with little advance plans . You can even join people you meet in the hostel to travel with to your next destination . And now that I 'm thinking about it some of my favourite memories from my 20 + years of hostelling is teaming up with other travellers in the kitchen ! You 'll pick up cooking techniques from around the world and pass on your own favourite techniques .
end question
start question
Buy alcohol duty-free or in US ?
I am told , the problem with them Indian customs is , you can read them boys all the rules from the book , but if they see you with more than 2 average sized ( 750 ml ? ) alcoholic bottles , you have had it . By the book , you can carry 2 liters of alcohol : <URL> The best option in experiences of people I know and as others here have suggested , it 's best to buy in US , pack well and put it in the check in luggage . Many liquors are way cheaper in the state run package stores than what it is in any other package/beverage store . In case it helps , I think last time I bought a Gelnlivet 18 year old 750 ml was 95 bucks . But you have to also keep in mind , the bottle weight of such liquor can get very heavy . There should n't be any problem all along the way . Just my personal suggestion ; You get all the GLENLIVETs and GLENFIDDICHs in India for reasonable price . How about taking something exquisite which is n't available in India at all ? May be a Tequila 1800 ?
There are several ways , but it does n't really matter . First there are several ways US immigration can know these things . You might have been on a flight to the country in question . Or the US might find out from one of their intelligence partners . Your own country probably knows you made the visit , if you exited the country on your way there . But that 's not the point of the exercise . They really do n't care about someone who has visited Syria as a tourist . The targets of this measure are people that the US suspects of having links to terrorism , but no real evidence . They know enough about those people to know that they have visited the countries in question , so they ca n't evade the measure by lying . People visiting these countries for legitimate reasons are just collateral damage . The second point is that if you do n't declare your visit on the ESTA , and US immigration knows or find out about it , you are guilty of lying on an immigration form . That 's going to get your VWP privileges removed , and make it much harder for you to get a visa in the future . That 's just fine by them as it gives them a reason to exclude someone acting suspiciously without needing any evidence of wrongdoing . Lying on an application form is a great way to get yourself in trouble .
Yes , in principle you should have gotten an entry stamp for the Schengen area . It seems the French border guard did not follow the rules . I do n't think UK border guards generally put exit stamps in passports , I believe the UK authorities should have gotten a passenger list from IDBUS so you should be fine as far as the UK is concerned . As far as Schengen rules are concerned the burden of proof will indeed be on you and you could theoretically be treated as an overstayer if you can not show a recent Schengen entry stamp , as set in article 11 of the <URL> : Presumption as regards fulfilment of conditions of duration of stay If the travel document of a third-country national does not bear an entry stamp , the competent national authorities may presume that the holder does not fulfil , or no longer fulfils , the conditions of duration of stay applicable within the Member State concerned . The presumption referred to in paragraph 1 may be rebutted where the third-country national provides , by any means , credible evidence , such as transport tickets or proof of his or her presence outside the territory of the Member States , that he or she has respected the conditions relating to the duration of a short stay . The previous exit stamp and UK entry stamp will at least show you have n't been in the Schengen area all the time since your last entry stamp but it would still be best to keep your IDBUS ticket to document the date you reentered the Schengen area , at least until the next time you exit it and probably for a few years after that . This is especially important if you are playing it close and want to stay several weeks ( if you are leaving within a few days of your first entry , it does not matter at all as you would not exceed the maximum allowed stay either way ) .
Assuming you are flying on a regular scheduled flight ( clearly , you are ) , it is always included in the final price of the ticket . It is paid for by the operator ( i.e. the airline ) . Source : <URL> .
In general people speak both languages . And because they can tell you are a tourist from the way you breathe :) they will not expect you to speak Spanish , nor Catalan . Having said this , you should always learn a few common words in the local language , such as greetings and please/thank you , as it shows you are making an effort . You said you are already planning on doing this , so why not add the extra effort and learn them in both Catalan and Spanish ? One rule of thumb could be using Spanish when asking for directions , when talking to the Guardia Civil/Mossos d'Esquadra ( national/local police ) , and in any other situations in which you ca n't assume the person is a pure-bred Catalan . On the other hand , when you go to the market , when you enter local shops or local restaurants , you can attempt a and . Regarding the tense situation you mention I would not worry about it . The situation might be tense between the Catalan government and the Spanish government . Since you belong to neither , nobody will expect you to be involved . I would say you might be over-thinking this too much . On a personal note , I stick to Spanish when I tour Spain . The reason is simple : that 's the language I know . I never had anyone get offended at me for speaking Spanish to them , not in Catalunya , not in Euskadi , nowhere . I always assumed it was because , as I said , they can tell I am tourist and generally appreciate it when I make the effort .
Not sure where you 've been reading that , but I can assure you they 're quite wrong , <URL> sells every make of cheap electronics , so Chinese no-name brands and outright ripoffs are legion . Back in the day when iPhones were the new hotness and were n't officially available in Singapore yet , I remember seeing a plethora of " jPhones " , " iFones " , " iPhons " etc , all thinly disguised Windows or Linux . Some dealers are n't above selling you the real thing and slipping a clone in the bag instead , although the Tourist Board is cracking down on this pretty hard . The general rule of thumb for exploring SLS is that the higher up and deeper down you go , the more esoteric the fare on offer . To generalize , the ground floor is mercenary camera dealers and is best avoided , while the first floor is mostly mainstream audio gear , but the second floor up is all IT . The " inner ring " stores facing the atrium are fairly mainstream ( laptops etc ) , but the windowless " outer ring " stores behind them sell components , used gear , etc. . The <URL> is a good place to start hunting , most shops have their own websites . <URL> is also an excellent forum for more info .
The behavior and acceptance of this behavior generally differs . Kissing someone on the cheek is generally considered to be a great degree of familiarity with the person you 're doing this with . So here goes : In the business setting I 've only seen this done by French or Canadian ( Quebec ) expats . Between friends it is acceptable but again only if you know the person you 're kissing . When it comes to business environment you kissing a woman as a matter of greeting technically can cost you dearly since it might be spun as sexual harassment and you 're likely to be fired on the spot but this is a discussion for <URL> site . Between friends : Almost anything goes but you have to look at it based upon the situation .
If you pay by Dollar ( or home currency ) The hotel will add a charge for this , hence you will be paying more . If you pay by local currency the exchange rate will be decided by the credit card company or bank . These exchange rates are much better than the hotel rates . <URL> for more information regarding this service for Visa holders . AFAIK , Other companies have similar services so this applies to all other credit cards .
The majority of the museums in Washington DC are run by the <URL> , and offer free entry to everyone ( with optional donations being accepted ) . There are also a number of non-Smithsonian museums , such as the <URL> ( free , but requires a timed ticket for entry ) , <URL> ( not free ) , and the <URL> ( also not free ) .
So , you have got a lot of questions there at once , let me address two of them I do know about . Netherlands In the Netherlands this has been possible for quite a while and was originally called paalkamperen ( though it seems it has officially been renamed sometime in the past 2 years ) , however it must be noted that this is bound by a lot of rules . Most importantly every spot has a designated number of tents that are allowed ( normally 3 small tents ) , if you arrive too late and they are taken you are n't allowed to camp there . Beyond that you are n't allowed to leave any trash , no loud music , 10 meters from the sign , no more than 72 hours , no campfires etc. etc. . Either way , a list can be found <URL> . All of this is in Dutch though , so good luck with Google Translate . Belgium Inspired by the Dutch , Belgium has recently set up a similar iniative called <URL> . It seems the rules are somewhat similar , though once again all information is in Dutch . Differences seem to be that it 's max for 48 hours and that you will find water pumps more often than in the Netherlands ( do note this is not drinking water ) . United Kingdom From what I have heard this is not allowed whatsoever in the UK , but if it is I would love to hear about it ( still hope to go hiking in scotland some day ) . Important to understand These locations really are n't meant for tourists . Not in the sense of that you are n't allowed to stay there , but you should note that not only information online is only in Dutch , but if you arrive on these locations you will find all signs to be in Dutch only as well . All in all these locations are meant for ' locals ' and as a tourist it 's not going to be the best holiday experience ever ( they can be hard to find , etc. ) . Either way , <URL> might be worth checking out as well , although it 's once again in Dutch it does give a good overview both of the Dutch and Belgium situation .
From <URL> : Camping There are no public wilderness or common areas in the Faroes . As a consequence , camping is only permitted at designated campsites ( See page 88 ) . Moreover , it is not permitted to stay overnight in your camping cars along the road , at rest stops , lay-bys or view areas . Be aware that many camping sites are designated only for tents . Campers ought to be considerate of the environment , keep the camping areas tidy and clean up thoroughly upon departure . Because of the unpredictable weather even in summer , it is advisable to have sturdy , waterproof and windproof camping equipment . Fuel for camping stoves is available at petrol stations . So no , wild or free camping is not permitted - you have to use designated campsites .
If you have no specific medical condition that would be exacerbated by anti-anxiety drugs , I 'd say you should at least try them to see if they work well for you . Most of them do n't have serious side effects if you do n't take too many , or too often . Excessive drinking has well-documented negative effects , among them the possibility of violent behaviour that can get you into really bad trouble ( as in : gigantic fines/damages , or even jail time ) on a plane .
I would try the <URL> in Shinjuku . In addition to kimonos they offer used books , hanging scroll art , prints , and accessories . Like anything secondhand it can be hit-or miss on what is available when you are there . Alternatively if you are willing to travel a bit ( 4.5 hours ) the <URL> is one of the best places to buy a genuine secondhand kimono in Japan . To get an idea of what to expect they have a really good <URL> that you can browse . Hanazono Shrine Antique Market Schedule Every Sun ( Closed on Shrine activity days and rainy days ) Open hours : Sunrise - sunset Address : Hanazono-jinja shrine grounds , 5-17-3 Shinjuku Shinjuku-ku
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
There are many available options as far as prepaid services available in the US : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Most of these sell GSM phones that are enabled for US and some are even able to be used in Europe but you will need to have a tri-band or quad-band to be able to do that . Now as far as IS-95 commonly known as CDMA is that outside the US/Canada the coverage is not as common and not as available . EDIT Coverage in Mammoth Lake depends on the carrier . Most major ones are likely to have it covered , smaller ones are likely not to have coverage in more rural areas . Credit - It expires . AT&amp;T Go phone will expire in 6 months to a year . Overall costs : Phone + service vary by phone and by service . GoPhone Alcatel Phone : $ 15 + 10c/minute
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
As others have said , give serious consideration to not buying one ! However , if you must ... Tottenham Court Road would be your best bet . It 's almost half way between Paddington and St Pancras , and if you do n't have too much luggage it 's probably a 30-40 minute walk from either . Otherwise , plenty of buses there , or you can take the tube ( from Paddington walk to Lancaster Gate for a direct tube ) Tottenham Court Road has loads of computer and electronics shops along it . If you want somewhere where you can see the various options , compare between shops , maybe haggle , or otherwise get a good deal on an old model they 're trying to shift , then that 'll be your best option . Just make sure you 're clear on what you want , and do n't go for the first shop , plan a bit of time to check out the options , and have a good idea of approximate prices first ! Otherwise , you could look at ordering one online to be delivered to your hotel , either new or second hand . Oh , and consider the age of the maps - depending on where you 're going a map that is a few years old might be fine , or might be a big problem . As an example , the Scottish Highlands have n't changed in a long time , but the area around Stratford and the Olympic Park has altered a lot recently !
I can think of a few reasons : Verifying the identity of Wi-fi users , in case a court subpoena comes in requesting information about a certain user . It 's not a bullet-proof method ( many countries offer anonymous sim-cards ) , but it 's probably good enough in most cases . Some countries may also ban fully anonymous Wi-fi ( such as Germany or Turkey ) . Making sure they can cut-off users who use too much traffic or time ( some free connections are limited to 15/30/60 minutes ) . It becomes harder to reconnect once banned since changing your MAC address is not sufficient . Denying access to long-term users . It 's often possible for local residents to connect to major Wi-fi hubs close by . Maintaining accurate statistics on the number of users/their country of origin/etc . Showing targeted advertisements based on your phone number . Having a database of phone numbers for future text advertisements/sales calls/etc . It 's probably hidden away somewhere in the long " Terms and Conditions " that nobody reads .
As far as UAE is concerned , there is only one issue at hand - since you are not going to consume alcohol inside the UAE but on-board the aircraft ; where they do not check your religion . If you appear publicly intoxicated , you are breaking the law . That 's it . So , as long as you can " hold your liquor " , you 'll be fine . The problem is that " intoxicated " is not a defined in the law ; unlike the US and some other places there is no field sobriety test . Pretty much you are at the mercy of the official . So , if you appear Muslim and are smelling of alcohol ; this may get you in trouble - especially if you are not a UAE citizen . I would recommend a breath mint , mouthwash , or perhaps some other method of calming your nerves during flight . I know some colleagues they use sleeping aids to help them rest - but of course , take these at the advice of your doctor .
Yes , at T1 ( International Terminal ) and T2 ( Domestic Terminal ) . I was there in 2011 but ca n't remember the details ( except that I did use internet connection at the airport ) . Anyway , <URL> is a good memory aid , and several tips from 2011 and 2012 say there 's indeed wifi available . <URL> : Free wifi all over with the " FREE WIFI BY EXPEDIA SYD " network . Just choose a destination and flight number . <URL> : You get free and fast wifi here ! <URL> : Free wifi in the international terminal ( T1 ) <URL> : Aquí el wifi gratis funciona !!! Update : The <URL> also confirms this : Free Wi-Fi is available throughout International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) . Sydney Airport now provides free Wi-Fi for all travellers at both the Domestic ( T2 ) and International ( T1 ) Terminals . You can use any Wi-Fi enabled device to connect including your laptop , smartphone or tablet . Simply select " Free Internet by sponsors name &amp; SYD " from the list of available networks , answer the questions , read the terms and conditions and click " Proceed " . You will be shown a sponsored message then directed to a website . From there you can browse the internet for up to 2 hours and 500MB of data . Coverage is provided throughout the entire International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) .
end question
start question
is there a bag for shower stuff ?
Yes , bags are sold specifically for this purpose . Features may include : being waterproof having lots of compartments to hold many small bottles ( or one compartment with various elastics and such to hold small bottles sort of upright ) having at least one compartment to hold tiny little things like bandaids and safety pins having a hook so you can hang it up in a small bathroom Examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> The magic word is " toiletries " , " wash " , " Dopp " or " washing " bag or kit ( depending on where you live and to some extent your gender , though the bags are generally gender neutral . ) Search with that and you should find a ton . Or go into a department store and take a look in the luggage section .
I could not find a centralised list of all community shelters in Quebec . However , I could list some organisations that manage shelters and list some of those along <URL> , from Mont-Tremblant to the reserve Mastigouche . I list them in the order West-East . For each shelter , I try to list the following : | [ name ] | [ capacity ] | [ price per night per person ] | [ location ( optional ) ] | [ access from previous shelter ] | [ opening period ] | Sepaq The <URL> manages many provincial parks ( called national parks ) and the Trans-Canada trail crosses them in multiple places . The Sepaq operates shelters all over Quebec in its parks of Fjord-du-Saguenay , Gaspésie , Grands-Jardins , Mont-Mégantic , Mont-Orford , Mont-Tremblant , Monts-Valin and Yamaska . in Mont-Tremblant national park | Lac-Ernie | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac Monroe Park center : ~ 13km | open May-March | | Lac-des-Sables | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-Ernie : 9.5 km | open May-March | | Le Lariou | 2 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-des-Sables : ~ 10km | open May-March | | Le Geai-Bleu | 4 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Le Lariou : ~ 5km , from La Pimbinia Park - entrance : few km | open May-March | This is an alternative way to link Mont-Tremblant and St-Donnat , the Trans-Canada trail follows the Intercentre trail ( see below ) . Intercentre The <URL> links Lac-Laurier and St-Donat , and is a part of the trans-Canada trail . | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 14 ' 10 " , W 74 ° 23 ' 55.2 " | <URL> ( north of Lac-Supérieur ) | open year-round | | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 15 ' 57.2 " , W 74 ° 21 ' 14.8 " | <URL> - open year-round | From the chemin Regimbald , it is possible to reach highway 329 and from there follow the chemin Wall to continue on the Mont-Ouareau trail . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) The <URL> manages two shelters , both along the Trans-Canada trail , one in the area of Mont-Ouareau : | <URL> | 12 people | 10-15 $ | near Lac Lemieux | <URL> | open year-round | The Trans-Canada trail is discontinued along the highway 125 , it starts farther on the Massif trail in the regional park of the Ouareau forest . Parc Régional de la Forêt Ouareau I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . They all appear on the <URL> | Pelletier | 8 people | 30,25 $ | near Lac à Pelletier - ~ 3km from hwy 125 , near Notre-Dame de la Merci | | Prud ' homme | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 2.5 km from Pelletier shelter | | La Loutre | 2 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Corbeau | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Toussaint | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 16.5 km from Prud ' homme shelter | | des Capucines | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 4km from Toussaint shelter | Then the trail continues without any shelter ( but some lean-to ) on the <URL> and the Swaggin trails . Parcs Régionaux Matawinie - Sentier National I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . | Swaggin | 20 people | 25 $ | the previous shelter on the trans-Canada trail is on the Massif trail , 38km away ( refuge des Capucines ) | | Lavigne | 8 people | 25 $ | <URL> | | Lac Boule | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac de la Boule - <URL> | | Bazinet | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac des Iles - <URL> | The trans-Canada trail continues on several successive trails ( Ours , Matawinie , Nymphes , Mistikush ) without any appareent shelter on the way ( see the <URL> ) . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) A second shelter managed by the FQMarche is at the end of Mistikush trail : | <URL> | 6 people | 10-15 $ | near Morin Creek , <URL> , <URL> | open in summer ( May 17 to Sep 1st ) | Then the Trans-Canada trail arrives in the <URL> , with no shelter open to single-person reservation . This list of shelters along the Trans-Canada trail in Quebec is definitely incomplete as the trail is particularly long ( 1100km ) but I hope to enrich it with time . SIA-IAT ( International Appalachian Trail ) The <URL> group manages a set of shelters , not along the trans-Canada trail but still worth noting . They publish <URL> . I do not list them as they are not along the Trans-Canada trail but along the Quebec section of the International Appalachian Trail .
It is an IATA recommendation , and airlines tend to go with the minimum recommended in case the policy is in their favor , and opposite is true when the recommendation is against them : 3.2 PERIOD OF VALIDITY A ticket is valid for carriage for one year from the date of commencement of travel or if no portion of the ticket is used , from the date of issue thereof , except as otherwise provided in the ticket , these Conditions or Carrier 's Regulations . There are conditions in which the validity is extended . Basically when it is the airline 's mistake , such as cancelling a flight or so . Many airlines include this in their " General Conditions of Carriage &amp; Tariffs " , some types of tickets have less validity , usually the discounted tickets ( ~ 3 months ) . Source : <URL>
There are special rules for it , the <URL> has a <URL> for this . Basically as long as you have an invitation or ticket for the event , you get a visa on arrival .
All you need is the HK SAR passport . The page is worded that way because they ca n't say " nationals of Hong Kong " : Hong Kong is a part of China , so there are no citizens of Hong Kong , only <URL> . And they also ca n't say " nationals of China " , because that would give visa-free access to everybody in China . So they say " permanent residents of Hong Kong SAR " , and how do you demonstrate that you are one ? By being a " holder of the Hong Kong SAR passport " . Where you actually live is irrelevant . Your question also implies that residency of Hong Kong alone is enough to get visa-free access to Russia , but this is not the case ; for example , <URL> .
I 've received an official reply from the <URL> : Q : @KLM what is the size limit of the accessory bag on long-distance flights ? Can I take a light-weight 35L backpack as an accessory bag ? A : An accessory is a small handbag or laptop sleeve for instance . A backpack unfortunately is n't . Q : @KLM is there a precise definition of what the maximum accessory bag dimensions are ? A : There is not . As said before the accessory can be a briefcase , laptop or camera sleeve . So the answer is : as long as it looks like a briefcase or laptop sleeve , it 's okay . There is no precise guideline or definition , unlike Ryanair 's or Wizzair 's policies . And no , you can not take a 35L backpack as an ' accessory bag ' .
The most likely answer is : whatever the check-in employees think . For example there 's a <URL> by <URL> where a man succesfully transforms a bag into a ' coat ' , allowing him to bring it on-board ( on Ryanair ! ) : If you can convince the airline employees that your ' bag ' is a ' vest ' , you 're good to go . If you ca n't , you 'll have to pay extra or check it in as a bag .
I am Ukrainian , just took a weekend trip to Norway ( flying from/to KBP ) and there were no issues whatsoever at border in either direction . [ update ] Well , that escalated quickly ... According to news due to tension with Russia border with them is " nearly locked down " . According to reports : Russians coming are getting denied entry in droves Ukrainians going are getting asked for things like proof of funds for stay and medical insurance , which is n't typical procedure .
It may not be the the exact controversies you are seeking , but Washington DC 's <URL> offers an immersive experience in the art of spycraft .
Here is the schedule for the rest of 2012 , which I got from <URL> . It was apparently compiled from <URL> . According to the page you linked to , " Upon check-in at a Walt Disney World Resort hotel , Guests will receive a schedule detailing when each park offers Extra Magic Hours " so if any last minute changes have occurred , that will be the most accurate . But the information below should allow you to start planning .
2-3pm is not rush hour in Tokyo . However , many central subway stations in Tokyo require you to climb flights of stairs to enter , exit or transfer lines , which is not much fun with large bags , and while there 's usually a single elevator somewhere , this can add a lengthy detour . If you can tell me exactly where you 're going , I can try to recommend a least-bad route . If you 've got large bags and/or are unfamiliar with Tokyo , the Limousine bus direct to your hotel is usually the best option , but availability depends on the destination . I 'd suggest two other alternatives : Take the airport train to the nearest major taxi station , then a taxi to your final destination . ( This is what I usually do . ) A cab from Tokyo Station to most destinations in Chiyoda should be less than 1000 yen . Ship your bags directly from the airport to your hotel with <URL> . This is particularly useful if you 're hardcore and plan to go to the office/customer site before your hotel . Same-day delivery for a full-size suitcase is ~ 2400 yen and the service is extremely reliable ( although at 2 PM you will most likely get it delivered the next morning ) .
No . Leather is transparent to x-rays ( just like human skin , which is why medical x-rays work ) . If they see a large enough mass that they ca n't see through ( if you happen to travel with a lead-lined bag for instance ) , they 'll usually want to take a look at it . It 's more likely that the officers do n't care , especially because the liquid containers in question are small . My experience is that they sometimes are n't particularly strict about the " take all your liquids out separately " rule ( and TSA Pre explicitly allows you to leave your liquids in your bag ) as long as they do n't see large bottles .
Adioso lets you search for any time . Additionally Skyscanner lets you search across an entire month . Generally Skyscanner has a better range . <URL> has a good overview of searching for a trip in this way .
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
Yes , there is a code for the Bay Area : QSF , which covers SFO , OAK and SJC . These are called " Metropolitan area airport codes " , and <URL> . However , there 's an important caveat : unlike " NYC " , this particular code is not actually an IATA code , it 's just convenient shorthand for some airline booking systems ( GDS ) . " QSF " will thus work on Sabre and ITA , but not other systems , where " QSF " may also be an obscure airport in Algeria . Wikipedia has a ( partial ) list of bona fide <URL> .
It 's an interesting dilemma to be sure . Normally I pack <URL> into my carry on not the whole bag of them buy just enough to tie the locks on the luggage . They are easily removed with scissors or wire cutters but it does tell you if the bag you have checked in have been messed with since having the exact brand make of the wire ties is difficult at best . Having said that in the US you can simply alert the authorities that if you open the bag and check it to find something illegal like drugs or explosives or live animals . Once you have done this I would suggest calling a lawyer or a friend to get you a lawyer ( better safe then sorry ) . The bigger problem is if you do n't know that these are there in that case get a good lawyer and hope for the best .
Honestly , I would stick with couchsurfing . I hate to sound like the news and say craig 's list can be dangerous , but I know some people that have had bad experiences ... really bad experiences . I would say stick with a site that validates users . If you do n't mind working , you can always go with somethign like <URL> . Also , working in a hostel is usually a pretty good gig . Free place to live and some cash . Typically you can easily find work at one by just walking in and asking .
If you buy any SIM card in China , you will have access restrictions . If you buy a prepaid card in China or Japan , you will not be able to roam data in another country for any reasonable amount of nmoney . The reason is that the vast majority of the customers want to buy a card only for that market . Ironically , you will have more luck abroad to buy such a card . Regarding the international roaming for example , you can <URL> for 8 pounds a day . Regarding the firewall , you will not get any guarantee that it will work . I use a <URL> and can somehow access all normally blocked websites when roaming in China , but no provider will advertise this at the risk of getting blocked . So if you can not find an offer abroad , you will have to buy one in each country , and chances are that you will not be able to circumvent the firewall . Unless you get a VPN service and connect through it .
The right answer to this is that it depends on the consulate officer . I got my B1/B2 with only a single document , my employment/income proof . From what I can understand , as long as consulate officer is convinced that you have enough money to sponsor the trip and enough reason to come back to your country , it is enough for them . Strictly speaking while an invitation letter is a plus , it is not mandatory . It just helps in increasing your chances , in case consulate officer gets suspicious that you are up to no good .
There are many but , and I think this list may not be all , but certainly most . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
Am I allowed to carry a microscope from Canada to a country that is a EU member ?
There is nothing that prohibits you from carrying a microscope onboard an airplane . One thing to mention is the tools that comes with it , if I am not mistaken microscopes comes with a set of tools ( I have seen one made for amateurs ) , it comes with some sort of sharp tools and/or some kind of liquids in small bottles ( I guess dye or something like that ) . These would be a problem and you need to check them in , but the microscope itself is fine . For more details about items hand luggage items in EU , visit <URL> .
Yes , this is legitimate . <URL> was <URL> to operate and maintain toll roads in Orange County . When you entered one of the roads , you would have passed under an electronic sensor which reads FasTrak transponders from those who have them , and takes license plate pictures in order to bill those who do not . You also passed under such a sensor when you departed the toll road , and a sign which advised you to <URL> to <URL> . If you plan to drive that way again , you may wish to obtain a FasTrak ( which is good for most California toll roads and bridges ) , or sign up for an ExpressAccount , which bills tolls to your credit card each day you drive , or on a prepaid basis , but only works for The Toll Roads . They 're currently offering a <URL> promotion for signing up , which would cover your recent trip . Given where you live , though , you may find <URL> ( a FasTrak compatible system ) more advantageous ...
The official Source of Truth ( tm ) : <URL> In particular : <URL> Your registered partner and extended family - siblings , cousins , aunts , uncles , and so on -- can ask the authorities in an EU country to officially recognise them as family members of an EU national . If they obtain recognition , they wo n't need a visa to enter that country -- they will receive the same treatment as your spouse , parents and children . EU countries do not have to recognise registered partners and extended family as your family members but they do at least have to consider the request . To avoid problems , contact the consulate or embassy of the country to which you are travelling well in advance to find out which documents your non-EU family member will be asked to present at the border . This will help to avoid unpleasant situations such as non-EU family members being refused entry because they do not have the required documents . Be aware that some countries may fail to apply EU law correctly and your non-EU family members may be denied some of their rights , as described here . In other words , if your wife is recognized as the spouse of an EU citizen and you are resident in the EU , she can indeed enter without a visa . If you are not resident in the EU , she will require a EU visa ( Schengen visa if you 're a Schengen country citizen ) , but this ( by law ) must be free and granted essentially automatically , all you need to prove is that you are married . But you 'd be well advised to sort this out in advance , and for a short tourist stay of less than 60 days , I do n't really see much advantage over <URL> .
No policeman is going to arrest you for riding in a park . I 'd be surprised if you ca n't ride in all the parks in Glasgow ( or almost any other city in the UK ) for that matter . Give pedestrians the right of way and be considerate and you 'll be fine .
You have to make a distinction between the Schengen area on the one hand and the UK , Ireland , Cyprus , Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia on the other hand . All EU countries should grant your wife the right to travel together with you ( but not alone ) with minimal formalities but those that are not in the Schengen area might still require her to get a separate visa . For the Schengen area , you only need one visa . So if you want to go to Switzerland ( technically Switzerland is not in the EU but for this purpose , it 's pretty much the same for the time being ) , you would apply to the Swiss consulate . With the visa issued by the Swiss consulate you will also be able to travel in most of the EU without any other formalities ( but , again , not to the UK , Ireland , etc. ) If you really want to visit all non-Schengen EU countries , then yes , you might need up to 5 or 6 visas ( although Romania , Bulgaria , Croatia and Cyprus have some special rules for Schengen visa holders so it might be possible to go there with your wife 's Schengen visa as well ) . Furthermore , being married should in principle make things easier ( at least in the EU proper , not entirely sure about Switzerland , see comments ) . In your quote , " these " in " check what these are " should be something like a marriage certificate , not the whole documentation package ( insurance &amp; financials &amp; itinerary ) that other applicants have to provide and the consulates have very little discretion in deciding to issue the visa or not . The visa should also be free of charge ( regular Schengen visa fees are currently EUR 60 ) . Beware , however , all those rules only apply if you are travelling together as they are derived from your right , as EU citizen , to travel freely in the EU . Note that , since you are a UK citizen , these rules also do not generally apply to the UK . Going there might even be more difficult , depending on UK law .
Nah , you should be fine in Europe . Fashion changes all the time . In the winter I often wear a waterproof jacket that has some bright colors , and I do n't think that it 's something that stands out . It depends on the jacket itself , but especially in autumn and winter , in cities , wearing bright colored hiking or skiing jackets would be something completely normal . Thus said , jacket will be probably least of your concern . Big backpack , travel guide and foreign language are more common giveaways .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
It appears this is not possible for the Big Three US airlines . In fact , your assertion that " I know airplanes have " refrigerators on board seems to be not true in general . <URL> : " Our aircraft do not have refrigerators on board , so please plan accordingly . " <URL> ( under Special Concerns : Medicine ) : " Airplanes do not have refrigerators on board , so plan for methods to keep medications cool , if required . " American Airlines : Could n't find authoritative information , but <URL> is a post from someone who <URL> as an AA employee , saying " We can not refrigerate medication for you . "
In Belgium and in the Netherlands you can take your bicycle on the train . Some restrictions may apply . In Belgium , the conductor will show you the place where you can store the bicycle . It costs <URL> , or <URL> . Folding bicycles are carried for free . You are advised to avoid trains during the peak hours , although it is not strictly forbidden . In the Netherlands you can take your bicycle with you on the train during off-peak hours . Peak hours are weekdays from 06:30 to 09:00 and from 16:30 to 18:00 . This restriction does not apply at weekends , on public holidays or in July and August . Bicycles must be placed in the special bicycle area on the train . You will recognise this area by the sticker on the outside of the train . As in Belgium , you need to pay a supplement and folding bicycles are carried for free . The price for the supplement is <URL> , irrespective of the journey .
You can travel visa-free only if you have a " residence card of a family member of a union citizen " issued under article 10 of the free movement directive ( or if you are a citizen of a country whose nationals do n't require visas in the Schengen area ) . A residence card issued by Romania to the spouse of a Romanian citizen is not necessarily an article 10 card . If you do not have an article 10 card , EU countries other than Romania must issue you a visa free of charge and on the basis of an expedited procedure . The grounds for refusal of that visa are strictly limited . These provisions are also dependent on your traveling with or joining your spouse . In case you are not , you 'll need a regular Schengen visa . As Relaxed pointed out in a comment , it appears that your concern stems in part from the fact that Romania is not yet a full participant in the Schengen agreement . These rules apply to all EU countries , not just Schengen countries , because they are based on the EU right of freedom of movement . Your situation in the Schengen area is therefore similar to that of someone married to a British or Irish citizen . Your Romanian spouse can , of course , travel visa-free in the entire European Union .
You can expect to be able to bring up to 1 liter onto a plane , in vessels of up to 100ml , carried in a transparent bag . Expect to lose any container over 100ml .
In general , as long as the box meets the size and weight restrictions for carry-on luggage , you can bring it into the cabin . Luggage restrictions generally do not concern the material from which the luggage is made .
Depends ( tm ) . For Star Alliance RTW tickets , which are probably the single most popular choice ( but not necessarily the cheapest ) , prices do vary considerably by country , although this is largely due to currency fluctuations and you need to do a bit of legwork to figure out how much you can actually save . Here 's a thread discussing the prices , including a handy spreadsheet showing the prices equalized into US dollars as of Jan 2011 : <URL> So a year ago , a YRWSPCL ( the cheapest option ) would have cost you US$ 3282 in Australia , but US$ 2646 from Malawi . Problem is , it 'll cost you a lot more than $ 600 to get to Malawi and back , and as far as I can see none of the countries you can cheaply reach from Oz have much of an edge : NZ is only marginally cheaper at US$ 3059 and eg . Malaysia , Singapore and Thailand are all more expensive . Edit : Here 's a nifty tool that shows current prices for a crapload of RTW fares from points around the world : <URL>
If you have a sufficiently modern iPhone ( eg . anything that runs iOS 9 would be fine ) , then enable a passcode , set " Require Passcode " to " Immediately " ( so you have to enter it every time you open the phone ) or something short . The phone 's memory is encrypted using a key derived from the passcode . No passcode , no personally identifiable data . If you do this , then the chance of identity theft due to a stolen phone is effectively zero .
If the liquid is red , it 's mostly likely alcohol ( ethanol ) , not mercury ( so less of an issue - even if it broke it would be no worse than spilling a few drops of wine ) . Even small mercury thermometers are <URL> , as Johnny says : By the TSA and some other authorities ( but Cathay Pacific , for example , does not allow them ) . So I think it should be okay , but you never know - you might lose it if some overzealous agent deems it a danger .
I am a business traveller from Britain , so I have never had to actually apply for a UK Visa , but my experience of similar situations says to me that you should n't refer to this as an interview but a ' meeting ' . During your visit you wo n't be being paid in the UK so you are n't a threat . Normally I arrive in a country as a ' general visitor ' because I am just ' meeting ' not ' working ' . You should also carry a printed version of the invitation to interview , contact details of the person you are visiting , exact details of where you are staying and preferably some means of showing that you are n't going to stay beyond . Part of proof is either showing that you have commitments back home ( e.g. already have a job , property lease or mortgage ) and that you have enough money to survive on ( have a recent bank statement showing you have money ) . Also make sure you have your return tickets and arrangements clear so they know you plan to return .
Having a UK indefinite leave to remain has nothing to do in this case , only the passport you have determines if you need a Schengen visa or not and since you have a South African passport you 'll need to apply for a Schengen visa in advance . Sources : <URL> <URL>
Unfortunately there is no pass at the moment . RoutPass disappeared after 2012 . Since it was offered several bus companies in the network were taken over by multi-national transportation companies , services have since been , and continue to be , restructured and moved between operators especially in Quebec and the Maratimes . At <URL> we 're building a search engine covering several companies in the region , it might help you find who 's currently operating and find the travel days with the lowest price .
" If you checked your bag through , and did not pick it up in Amsterdam , then you did not go through customs with it already when you enter the UK . Only your hand luggage will have been cleared through customs if you leave the Airport in Amsterdam . Thus , it makes sense to use the " nothing to declare " lane in the UK , as you are in a situation where you could have something to declare . <URL> - Question 5 covers this case and makes it explicit that the customs check will be at the final destination in the EU , except that it does not talk about leaving the Airport or the transfer area . As far as the gates are concerned , there is nothing in the rules , and using the definition of " intra-EU flight " from the page , the green gates would actually be fine to use . Using them with a non-green luggage tag will probably raise suspicion , though .
You and your passport and your boarding pass will be checked by <URL> , as they 're the ones who run the " <URL> " . They need to verify you are actually departing from YUL to the EU . The airport 's <URL> do n't actually show the counter , but there 's <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> .
end question
start question
What is typical ( traditional ) Lao / Laotian food ?
I think you were disappointed because the most famous Lao dishes have become popular in Thailand and a lot of the food you find in Laos without a local to help is n't really Lao food but Thai , Vietnamese , Chinese , and French food . The most famous Lao dishes have to be larb and green papaya salad . I never saw these on offer in non-touristy Surat Thani in Thailand , but they were everywhere in Khao San in Bangkok and of course in Isan , which has a Lao ethnic majority . It turns out that all the stir fries you see in Laos are not Laotian . They 're all originally Chinese though some have come through Thailand 's cultural filter such as pad thai . The same for curries . The ones you see in Laos are due to Thai influence . The same word " gaeng " , which means " curry " in Thailand usually means " soup " in Laos . I do n't think French food has influenced Lao food greatly , it 's mainly stayed separate . But when I finally found where to buy local baguettes around the bus station , I barely recognized any of the ingredients . Apparently the main staple Laos regard as Lao food is the sticky rice ( <URL> ) . I thought I 'd had sticky rice before because some rice is stickier than other rice . But the sticky rice here comes in little woven pot/baskets , is super duper sticky almost like play doh . Here the staff in my guest house have it every day with a spicy salad , some raw leaf vegetable I ca n't identify , and some meat or fish . I 'm sure this is also in Thailand but again it 's a Lao ethnic food that you can get in Thailand - not a Thai food . But I 'm just a traveller sussing out the food here . I 'm no expert . Did you wander through the night market in Vientiane and see all this : One thing I found is a local dish similar to laksa of Malaysia/Singapore/Indonesia . I do n't know if it 's related or just a coincidence . It 's called <URL> : As an unexpected bonus a Lao who grew up here but lives in Thailand and has pretty good English has checked in to my hostel so we 're gon na wander around and I 'm gon na ask him about Lao food ( - :
As we pointed out in some comments , there really are tons out there . It being mostly a Catholic ( historically ) and Spanish-Portuguese continent , a lot of the festivals tend to be related to dates at similar times , as well as historical dates ( independence days and the like ) . For this , I 'd recommend a site like <URL> - which lists around 70 well-known festivals . Then they have a sorting tool on the right which will let you sort by country , month and the like . Unfortunately you 're a bit late for Carnaval and a bit early for <URL> , but there are plenty others in that list in South America in the months you mention !
The CBP <URL> : You may bring bakery items and most cheeses into the United States . As a general rule , condiments , vinegars , oils , packaged spices , honey , maple syrup , coffee , fish , tea , and baby formula are admissible . and is classified as general food .
The prohibition applies to liquids , gels and aerosols . Since you describe the food as squidgy it will with very high probability be considered a gel and not pass . My advice is to take freeze dried camping foods in your hand luggage . Those are entirely dry and pass without any problems ( source : I do this all the time ) .
Clicking " show more " below the video you will read : The Performance of Russian guitarist Estas Tonne at the Buskers Festival Stadtspektakel in Landshut in September 2011 in the Old Town with " The Song of the Golden Dragon " . . The shoe store " Lipp " and the Commerzbank in the video give away the precise address : Altstadt 76 , Landshut , Germany . Here is a link to the website of the <URL> . It is also shown ( among others ) during the last seconds of the video .
There is the <URL> in Sweden . From the most <URL> it is 755 km
Munich native again . Of course all tents serve typical Bavarian food . The food can be roughly divided into two categories : warm dishes and proper starters/desserts as served in any Bavarian restaurant and Brotzeit , a German/Bavarian classic consisting of bread or Brezn ( pretzel ) with various spreads , hearty toppings and often accompanied by some kind of radish . Many tents serve special dishes matching their motto . Such as different Ox dishes in the Ochsenbraterei , Steckerlfisch ( fish on a stick ) at Fischers Vroni , grilled ducks at the Entenbraterei and Knödel ( dunmplings ) at the Knödelei . Just to mention some of them . Besides those special dishes you should always get Hendl ( grilled chicken ) and Schweinsbraten ( roast pork ) as warm dishes . Prices vary by time of day : there are special deals for lunch , while dinner is certainly more expensive . For lunch you can calculate with deals starting at about 10 $ while warm dinner ranges from 15 to 25 Euros . Brotzeit is also priced around 10 $ . Of course the sky is the limit and you 'll also find dishes on the menu with significant higher prices . All tents do also serve vegetarian dishes often priced between 10 and 15 Euros . But the real Schmankerl ( delicacies ) are typically not vegetarian . You might instead want to try a sweet course as a main dish . The Austrian influence is strong in this area and results in great dishes . Some menus from last year can be found here ( not all containig prices and none in English ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> And yes , the beer price has surpassed the 10 $ barrier . A Bediengeld ( the waitress share ) is already included , but additional tipping is still expected !
<URL> and <URL> are both dishes with great variety , available with meat as well as seafood . Then there 's <URL> and <URL> , various <URL> , <URL> , vegetarian sushi variants , <URL> ... that 's all the most common ones , I think .
For me , having a kitchen is one of the defining qualities of a hostel . I 'm sure there 's some that do n't have a kitchen but the vast majority do and should . If you want to meet people I would definitely suggest hostelling . Read online reviews though to find a hostel which suits your style . Some are heavy on partying and others are more family oriented for example . One advantage is that there are many great hostels all over Canada so unlike with renting an apartment you can still travel all over the place with little advance plans . You can even join people you meet in the hostel to travel with to your next destination . And now that I 'm thinking about it some of my favourite memories from my 20 + years of hostelling is teaming up with other travellers in the kitchen ! You 'll pick up cooking techniques from around the world and pass on your own favourite techniques .
Primanti brothers is an excellent and iconic sandwich place in Pittsburgh . <URL> has a list of notable mentions this enterprise has received . There are multiple locations in the city . <URL> is the second tallest university building in the world and houses 29 <URL> which are a must visit . The <URL> is an incline plan railroad first started in 1887 , scaling Mt.Washington and having a brilliant view of the Pittsburgh downtown and the confluence of the Allegheny , Ohio and the Monogahela rivers . If you are the type , there are a bunch of museums including The Carnegie Museum of Natural History , the Hienz History Center detailing the sports legacies of the Steelers and The Andy Warhol Museum ( Andy Warhol was a native of Pittsburgh and a leading figure in the pop art movement ) . Also , if you are interested in bridges , Pittsburgh has the world record for most bridges , I beleive 446 of them , beating Venice which was historically considered the City of Bridges . P.S. . This does not strictly come under the city of Pittsburgh , but an hour 's drive from the city is Frank Lloyd Wright 's famous <URL> .
It 's a pub staffed by Filipina hostesses . All offer drinks and conversation , most do karaoke ( Filipinos love their karaoke ! ) , some have dancing and shows . The term itself does n't connotate sexual services , although the virtue of some ladies may well be negotiable after-hours . The phenomenon started when the bursting of Japan 's economic bubble led to a steep fall in Japanese visitors to the Philippines , leading many of the people in the industry that had developed there to try their luck in Japan instead . The Philippine pub boom reached its peak in 2004 , when there were over 80,000 Filipino women in Japan on " entertainer " visas . Shortly thereafter , Japan landed on a human trafficking watchlist and started cracking down heavily on these visas , so much that by 2007 they became effectively impossible to obtain . Some pubs scraped by through finding staff who were either married to Japanese ( for real or otherwise ) , had legal working status via some other means , abusing tourist visas or simply overstaying illegally , but obviously this put a big crimp on the industry and there are n't that many left . ( Most of the above freely translated from <URL> on the Japanese Wikipedia . ) And yes , foreigners are generally welcome , probably more so than at your average Japanese bar since most Filipinas speak decent English . But I suspect I 'm not entirely alone in not really understanding the attraction of paying fairly sizable amounts of money to drink with people who are employed to pretend to like me ...
I have not been in the last two years but as far as I know there is no rule against bringing your own , nor any rules about searches . A quick Google search in Dutch did not bring up any mention about there being rules about food . And in the old days people used to bring their picnics , maybe some folks still do . I read the whole site of the Keukenhof and did not see any mention of not being allowed to bring food while they clearly state what is not allowed in transports ( no bikes , balls and that kind of things . ) So I am sure that there being no mention of food at all in that respect means that the rules have not been changed since my visit . You are welcome to use the restaurants they offer but allow you to eat your own food outside the restaurant areas .
Yes , you will be offered food for free in the Nizzamuddin Eruklam Express ( 12284 ) as you are already charged in ticket . For evidence see the screenshot below which I took in the IRCTC website while booking ticket for the same train . <URL> To answer your second question the train usually reaches Manglore on time .
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
Finding suitable souvenirs for office distribution ( 会社用バラマキお土産 ) is a problem of every Japanese traveller , but <URL> has lots of tried and tested ideas for Beijing . To quickly summarize : China-only variants of Japanese candy , like banana milk or wine &amp; chocolate Pocky . Even Chinese packaging of " normal " Japanese candy is unusual and interesting . Western-style pastries from <URL> ( 稻香村 ) , <URL> ( 味多美 ) , or <URL> ( 好利来 ) Red and green bean paste buns ( 紅豆焼 , 緑豆爽 ) Chestnut jelly ( 栗子羹 ) Tea-flavored candied kumquat ( 茶香金桔蜜銭 ) and cranberries ( 紅茶蔓越苺蜜銭 ) Pineapple tarts ( 風梨酥 ) , although this is more of a southern Chinese thing ( no pineapples anywhere near Beijing ... ) And one thing not to buy : guǒfǔ ( 果脯 ) preserved fruits may be Beijing 's most famous souvenir , but they 're way too sweet for the Japanese palate . As an aside , the casual observer might look at the list above and sputter , " But most of those are n't really Chinese ! " That 's not the point : the primary purpose of omiyage is to show your respect your colleagues , and the secondary goal is that whatever you bring back is tasty and goes well with tea . Being " exotic " is , at best , number three on the list , and being so exotic that it interferes with goal 2 is not good at all .
Actually NYP = <URL> . Pine Hill along with Adirondack and New York Trailways operate under the same umbrella of New York Trailways , hence NYP ( New York Pine Hill ) .
What you 're after is <URL> - the cooking associated with the area . Appetizers , soups , and salads Meat and seafood Rice Sides Wikipedia goes on to explain that the geography is the main factor in distinguishing the region 's culinary identity from other areas of the South . There 's an abundance of shrimp , fish , crabs , and oysters in the estuary system , and the marshlands of South Carolina are also conducive to growing rice , and that grain has become a major part of the everyday diet over time .
What Is the US Visa Waiver Program ? The <URL> allows travellers of certain nationalities to visit the US for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . This is a bilateral agreement , meaning that all countries participating in the VWP must allow US citizens to visit for tourism or business purposes without the need for a visa , for a maximum of 90 days . To date <URL> : Andorra ( 1991 ) Australia ( 1996 ) Austria ( 1991 ) Belgium ( 1991 ) Brunei ( 1993 ) Chile ( 2014 ) Czech Republic ( 2008 ) Denmark ( 1991 ) Estonia ( 2008 ) Finland ( 1991 ) France ( 1989 ) Germany ( 1989 ) Greece ( 2010 ) Hungary ( 2008 ) Iceland ( 1991 ) Ireland ( 1995 ) Italy ( 1989 ) Japan ( 1988 ) Korea , Republic of ( 2008 ) Latvia ( 2008 ) Liechtenstein ( 1991 ) Lithuania ( 2008 ) Luxembourg ( 1991 ) Malta ( 2008 ) Monaco ( 1991 ) Netherlands ( 1989 ) New Zealand ( 1991 ) Norway ( 1991 ) Portugal ( 1999 ) San Marino ( 1991 ) Singapore ( 1999 ) Slovakia ( 2008 ) Slovenia ( 1997 ) Spain ( 1991 ) Sweden ( 1989 ) Switzerland ( 1989 ) Taiwan ( 2012 ) United Kingdom ** ( 1988 ) Passport Requirements Travellers wishing to benefit from the VWP must have a machine readable <URL> with a digital photograph printed on the document . All countries participating in the VWP must , and do , issue these passports to their citizens . If you do n't have an e-Passport to date , you 'll have to apply for one . What Is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? The <URL> is a fully automated process which allows visitors to verify if they are eligible to travel to the US under the VWP . The ESTA is not a visa . The ESTA is not a guarantee that visitors will be admitted entry to the US . Obtaining an ESTA simply means that the applicant meets <URL> . Namely : Who You Are : You are a citizen or eligible national of a Visa Waiver Program country . You are currently not in possession of a visitor 's visa . Your travel is for 90 days or less . You plan to travel to the United States for business or pleasure . You want to apply for a new authorization for one person or a group of applications for two or more persons . <URL> : Q : What is the Electronic System for Travel Authorization ? A : The Electronic System for Travel Authorization ( ESTA ) is an automated system that assists in determining eligibility to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and whether such travel poses any law enforcement or security risk . Upon completion of an ESTA application , a traveler is notified of his or her eligibility to travel to the United States under the VWP . Who Needs to Apply for ESTA ? <URL> Travellers who normally would require a visa to enter the US should apply for a visa and not for an ESTA . Travellers who are eligible to visit the US under the VWP must obtain an ESTA prior to travelling to the US . This includes travellers who will only transit in the US on their way to somewhere else . Quoting from <URL> : Q : Who is required to apply for ESTA ? A : All eligible nationals or citizens of VWP countries who plan to travel to the United States for temporary business or pleasure under VWP are required to receive an authorization through ESTA prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or vessel . The term " United States " refers to the continental United States , Alaska , Hawaii , Puerto Rico , Guam , the Virgin Islands of the United States , and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands . Accompanied and unaccompanied children , regardless of age , are also required to obtain an independent ESTA approval . A third party , such as a relative or travel agent , is permitted to submit an ESTA application on behalf of a VWP traveler . Q : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require an ESTA if they are only transiting the United States en route to another country ? A : Yes . Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the VWP require either an ESTA or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the ESTA application , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination in the address lines under the heading " Address While In The United States . " <URL> An ESTA is required only for travellers seeking entry by air or sea . How Long Is my ESTA Valid For ? Once approved , an ESTA is valid for two years , and can be used multiple times , provided the reason for the multiple visits to the US remains within the scope of the VWP : business or tourism . If the applicant 's passport has less than two years validity left , the ESTA expires when the passport expires . My ESTA Expires Halfway into my Trip in the US <URL> It does not need to be valid for the entire duration of stay in the US . Therefore , there is no need for a traveller to apply for a new ESTA if their existing one expires whilst they are visiti
I did n't want to just provide anecdotal notes , but since Mark Mayo encouraged it here are some -- I 've been to several weddings in the Philippines and I 've heard about many more . The short answer to your question is : it varies . Wildly . A lot of what the Wikipedia page says can happen , but none of it is guaranteed -- weddings are really up to the couple , their family and are often bound by how much money they have . Weddings may be in a church , a resort , a hotel or on a beach , etc. . Similarly the reception may be in the same place , or a different place an hours drive away . There are some pointers I can give you -- for what it 's worth Mark 's advice is excellent . Dress Code Dress smart , you will be OK with a little less formal than you might do for a western wedding -- and remember it 's hot and humid here so you 'll be more comfortable . Philippine men wear a <URL> , you 'll be fine not wearing one and should n't worry about it unless you really want to or you 've been asked specifically to wear one . A white shirt , with smart trousers and nice shoes is fine -- I tend to wear a tie because I think it 's appropriate but you 'll get away without one in all but the most formal weddings . Jacket is optional -- chances are you 'll be too hot with it on . Ceremony If it 's a catholic ceremony it 'll likely be like many others , with slight differences here or there . It 'll likely be on the long side , and depending what they do there are parts where you 're supposed to do or say something particular . You 'll be able to pick it up easily enough and it 's likely to be a lot less uptight and rigid than you might expect . Traditions/Gifts I 'm assuming you 're not part of the ceremony , bear in mind that there 's an extended group of ' sponsors ' who are involved . If you are one you 'll be told what to do , but you 'll probably be expected to give some money to the family ( in a sealed envelope normally , someone will probably point out the right time ) . Otherwise any normal gift is fine , including a card with cash which will be greatly appreciated and is n't frowned upon as it is in some places . Local currency please , whatever you 're comfortable with , do n't go overboard . There may or may not be speeches . Do n't expect anything like the traditional western format of father , best man , groom ( is that the order ? ) , more likely a few people will say some words . Speeches may or may not be in Tagalog , most likely they 'll be in a hybrid of Tagalog and English ( Taglish ) . Reception Receptions can be quite basic , there will be food , there may or may not be alcohol . Food might be catered , brought by guest pot-luck style or cooked by the family . It 'll likely be buffet style . If you 're lucky ( and can eat pork ) there 'll be <URL> -- if it 's a buffet head for that first , everyone else will . Food is a good point -- if you have dietary restrictions you need to let the family know and possibly be prepared to eat in advance . Purely vegetarian dishes are rare ( dishes may be only vegetable but there 's likely meat in any stock ) . Similarly some common western allergies are just not common here and so are n't catered for . Some receptions end after the food but you say it 's a party -- so expect music and dancing . Expect a lot of cameras and picture taking . Possibly a roving video guy asking for soundbites from guests . Just relax and enjoy . Nobody will judge you . People will make an effort to talk to you and find out more about you . Everyone will appreciate the effort you made to travel . I ca n't think of anything you could do that would offend anyone accidentally . A few other things you may want to consider : Timing -- depending how far you have to go make sure you have enough time . Traffic can be pretty bad and it can easily take you three times longer than it looks like it should . Arrive early , but expect things to run late . Make sure you know how you 're getting between the two places if necessary . Weather -- it 's rainy season now , it almost certainly will rain at some point every day . And it 'll rain a lot . If there 's any chance you 'll be caught outside have an umbrella with you . Mosquitoes -- again if you 'll be outside consider wearing and taking insect repellent . I would n't worry so much about disease but they 're annoying as hell if they take a liking to you .
I believe that it is the <URL> . It was built to celebrate the successful war ( s ) of independence of the Baltic states and Poland in 1918-1920 . Or maybe you mean the Maarjamaae War Monument on <URL> . This was a World War II memorial . <URL>
end question
start question
Can you rent / drive a car in the USA with just the paper counterpart of the UK driver 's license ?
It depends on who you 're hiring from . If you 're hiring from a small , local US hire car company , you might well be out of luck . If you 're hiring from somewhere big , they should be able to help Avis UK have a handy page on <URL> , which covers what you can do depending on where in the world you are . They say that for Avis US locations : Renting from Avis in the USA When renting in the USA , you can rent a car with your photo card licence only , or with your paper counterpart licence and your passport . If you have neither part you can not hire a car from an Avis office in the USA Hopefully other larger companies will be able to do the same . Somewhere small is most likely to only be used to photocard driving licences , so may well not be able to satisfy themselves and their insurers with only the paper part and a passport . In the UK , you can ( normally for an extra fee ) have the hire car company phone up the DVLA , and get confirmation from the DVLA that you hold a valid licence without too many points . That only works when the DVLA are open , and requires that the hire car company know about how to check with the DVLA . Maybe you could find a US hire car office that knew about how to do it , but it 's not that likely , and you 'd struggle with the time overlap of when the hire car place is open and when the DVLA call centre is open . You could always speak to the head office of the hire car place to see if they can set this up in advance though , you might get lucky but do n't count on it !
Yes you can . Because a Canadian license permits you to drive manual transmission cars back home , it 's taken as permission to drive one abroad . Since there is n't a specific ' manual transmission ' license there is no other approach that could be taken . I have rented manual cars in Britain many times on an Ontario license .
As @Dirty - flow said , sleeping in the car is allowed , but you should not sleep in the driver 's seat etc. if you are drunk , to omit being fined for drunk driving . There are many areas , especially inside of the " Mittlerer Ring " , where parking is restricted ( residents only or parking ticket , see <URL> or <URL> ) . I 'd suggest to park somewhere in the outskirts , near a <URL> station , and use public transport . <URL> , for example , has a nice lake you can swim in ( " Erholungsgebiet Heimstettener See " ) . Update : Sleeping in a caravan in the city of Munich is forbidden : <URL> ( They <URL> parking at the Messe in Riem , 35 Eur per night . ) Feldkirchen should be OK . Also note : You need a <URL> for your car ( " Umweltplakette " ) if you want to drive inside of " Mittlerer Ring " .
There is an official " minimum connecting time " for each airport . For international airports , there are usually separate " minimum connecting times " specified for domestic to domestic , domestic to international , international to domestic , and international to international . At larger airports there may even be longer minimum connecting times when you are changing airlines . Believe it or not , the data is not readily available online . Here are some places to find an official minimum connecting time , sorted in order from most authoritative to least authoritative : The official source is the IATA , which publishes the Airline Coding Directory , which costs hundreds of dollars . A much cheaper way to get the same data is to get the <URL> . Since minimum connecting times do n't change very often , I recommend just buying one copy of an outdated OAG Pocket Flight Guide on ebay for a couple of bucks . Call any airline involved in your itinerary . Tell them you would like to know the minimum connecting time for the airport in question . They 'll know exactly what you 're talking about and look it up for you . Airlines sometimes publish minimum connecting times on their websites or in their timetables , usually only useful when you are connecting on the same airline . But if you are connecting on the same airline , you do n't have to worry about this , because they will not book you on a connection which is shorter than the minimum connecting time . Remember that minimum connecting times are only estimates . Your first flight might be late . US Immigration may be overloaded . The airport train may break down . The security check in for the second flight may be really long . Due to all the steps involved , international to domestic transfers are always terrible and should be avoided if at all possible . You are literally better off transferring through a third country that has good international - > international connections ( Vancouver , Amsterdam , and London Heathrow Terminal 5 are all great for international to international ) if that allows you to enter the US at your final destination . So for example if you 're travelling from Europe to Detroit , you 're WAY better off changing planes in Amsterdam than at JFK . If you 're travelling from Seoul to San Diego , you 're WAY better off changing in Vancouver than SFO or LAX . Etc. . Like everything , " IT DEPENDS , " so please feel free to ask a more specific question -- at the very least we need to know what airport you 're connecting at and which airlines you 're using .
What do you want to know about these flights ? The websites shown in the other question are advertised as flight trackers more than providers of historical data about flights . It is hard to tell from your question what kind of data you expect , so here are some websites and their sources . As @CGCampbell points out , <URL> claims to " collect flight and airport information from a multitude of global sources " without telling which ones . <URL> also mentions around 50 government sources in Europe , Oceania , North America . It also uses a <URL> , basically <URL> . <URL> says it uses first the same ADS-B technology and secondarily the FAA data . Also , if you want to track a flight , most airports have a list of live flights , most likely relying on their own radars . So if you have a specific airport in mind , you 'd better go on its website to check . Open data portals such as <URL> or <URL> did not result in very relevant data sets or apps . The only one I found was a World Bank data set showing <URL> , but I expect that by historical flight data you mean detailed information about a specific flight . Some other websites show some incomplete flight data like <URL> that partially relies on <URL> which in turn relies on FAA or previously DAFIF for its data . <URL> has a question on the topic and show a lot of sources but few might interest you . In more specific and curious data , as pointed out by an <URL> question , <URL> reports incidents and accidents about commercial flights . I recommend you to visit and even ask on these other StackExchange websites , as some more knowledgeable people may be able to answer your more specific question .
In the strictest sense : Yes , that works1 . ( But you should be well-prepared for a discussion with the police , just in case ) Since you mention going to Freiburg , we 're talking specifically about Germany , and the relevant applicable laws are § 20 FZV and § 3/13 KraftStG . The first one states that it is legal to temporarily use a foreign car with a valid foreign registration . The second one exempts you from having to pay tax . There are several important preconditions to fulfill : Temporarily means less than one year . For your example , that 's the case . The vehicle must not be designated to be regularly registered in Germany . In non-gibberish , this means that trips must usually start abroad , i.e. the car must have it " home base " abroad . It 's the car that matters , not you . For a car rented in Basel , that 's arguably the case . You must not transport goods or people for profit ( or else the tax exemption is void ) . The car must be properly registered and have an insurance , with papers in German . No issue when renting in Basel . The car must be " safe for traffic " . Pretty much guaranteed in your case , too . 1Let 's be more careful and say : " should work " , because you never know . Police sometimes has an odd opinion , even when you are perfectly right , so you can not ever be sure . For example , depending on whom you encounter , they can be very inventive for giving out fines on purely imaginary regulations , such as when your first aid kit has no expiry date or the date is expired ( there 's no law requiring that ) , or if you drive with perfectly legal daylight ilumination , which the particular police man does n't recognize as such .
<URL> : Reasons for inadmissibility Note : This is only a guide . A Canadian immigration officer will decide if you can enter Canada when you apply for a visa , an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , or when you arrive at a port of entry . A person may be denied a visa , or an Electronic Travel Authorization ( eTA ) , refused entry to , or removed from Canada on any of these grounds : security reasons , including espionage subversion ( attempts to overthrow a government , etc. ) violence or terrorism , or membership in an organization involved in any of these human or international rights violations , including war crimes crimes against humanity being a senior official in a government engaged in gross human rights violations or subject to international sanctions committing a serious crime that would be punishable by a maximum prison term of at least 10 years in Canada Footnote 1 having been convicted of a crime , including driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol Footnote 1 organized crime , including membership in an organization that takes part in organized criminal activity , people smuggling or money laundering health grounds -- if their condition is likely to : endanger public health or public safety , or cause excessive demands on health or social services ( some exceptions exist Footnote 2 Footnote 3 ) financial reasons -- if they are unable or unwilling to support themselves and their family members misrepresentation , which includes providing false information or withholding information directly related to decisions made under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act ( IRPA ) failure to comply with any provision of IRPA Footnote 4 or having an inadmissible family member . However , the big disclaimer at the top says that this list is just a guide , and that your admissibility depends exclusively on what the immigration officer handling your case decides . In addition , <URL> of the agreement you linked specifically says that the two countries share information with the purpose of enforcing immigration laws in their respective countries : The purpose of this Agreement is to assist in the administration and enforcement of the Parties ' respective immigration laws by : using Information in order to enforce or administer the immigration laws of the Parties ; furthering the prevention , investigation , or punishment of acts that would constitute a crime rendering a National of a Third Country inadmissible or removable under the immigration laws of the Party providing the Information ; or facilitating the Parties ' adjudication of an application for a visa , admission , or other immigration benefit , or determination of whether an individual is to be ordered removed by providing Information regarding the admissibility of the individual . This is to say that Canada can inquire , and if so will be informed , about the US ban . You admissibility will therefore depend solely on the immigration officer 's decision based on all the information they have . They will know what , when , why , and how you overstayed . It goes without saying that one should not omit this information in one 's application . Now , overstaying in a country is generally a red flag when applying for a visa in another country . A previous overstay in any countries makes you immediately untrustworthy , and casts serious doubts about your intentions of actually leaving Canada . Therefore , the answer to whether being banned in the US renders you inadmissible in Canada is likely to be yes .
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
Portland has an <URL> , especially the light rail and buses , that will serve you well for getting around Portland itself . If that 's the area that you intent to stay within then you can certainly get by without a car - although you still may find having one to be more convenient depending on exactly where you 're planning to go . However for me personally , no trip to Portland would be complete without a trip along the <URL> , and for that you 're going to need a car . If you can manage 2 days in the area I 'd suggest that you could easily do without a car for one day , and then rent a car for the day to do the trip along the Gorge .
The shortest crossings are the quickest and cheapest . So Dover/Calais is very popular . And the EuroTunnel train from Folkstone/Calais is effectively the same , but quicker ( 35 minutes compared with 90 minutes ) and more expensive . However you then have to factor in the drive to and from the crossing points , which costs both time and money . Hence a longer more expensive crossing may suit you better . For example the 10 hour crossing from Rotterdam to Hull is probably more time-effective than driving from Rotterdam to Calais and Dover to Hull . Other factors : Frequency of crossing . If there are only 3 ferries a day , then missing the ferry is a big deal . There are often 3 trains an hour , so no big deal to miss one , and indeed one often can get on an earlier train . Seasickness : some of these crossings ( North Sea , Bay of Biscay ) can be rough . 10 hours on a heaving ship may not suit you . Hence we do usually take the train . Some folks treat the sea voyage as part of the holiday ; it can be fun . Some longer crossings are over-night , and the ferry will have the possibility to book a cabin for a few 10s of pounds so with any luck you can get a good night 's sleep . For folks with limited holiday time this saving of a night can be a boon .
Find out what car rental companies are available at your destination , then call/email them to ask . Try to ensure whoever you ask checks policy rather than just answering what they think is right - because you may find whoever is at the desk on the day you collect has a different idea , and it could be important to show them the correct answer . I 'd also be keen to check if the law of the countries you intened to drive in are happy with this arrangement . In some European countries you can be compelled to hand over your license when stopped by law enforcement and there is of course the possibility you get into an incident of some form . It could be problematic if it turns out that you were breaking the law with a driving license not in your legal name .
<URL> it 's rare to get automatic transmissions in Brazil , or that when the companies do have them , they 're regularly more expensive . Your best bet is to contact the company before you get to Brazil ( from comments of yours on other questions I gather you 've booked through Modiva ) , and find out if you can reserve one . I suspect they 'll be getting similar questions from others , especially from the US , so should be able to clarify .
Basically , the answer is no . It 's anecdotal but I have heard many reports about people being denied entry to the US based on repeated travel to " unfriendly " countries , never to European countries ( and especially not to the Schengen area ) . Generally speaking , there is a sharp distinction in the US between citizens and residents , whose rights enjoy strong legal protections , and foreigners , for whom everything goes , especially at the border . Not so in the EU . It 's not to say that EU countries are exemplary ( they are not , you can find many egregious examples of that ) but there is an expectation of due process at the border and a rather restrictive list of valid reasons to deny entry . Denying entry based solely on your having visited a third country is not common practice and would probably not be legal . Beyond fraud and intent to immigrate illegally , the main reason to deny entry is that you present a threat to public safety and the hurdle for that is higher than just having visited a country .
If it 's a VISA debit cart , then it can be used as a credit card anywhere VISA is accepted , so you should n't have to worry about it . Note that many rental companies will want to charge the deposit to the card - most likely in the area of $ 200-300 . This money will be unavailable to you if the charge is on the debit card . While it 's easy to determine whether the card is a debit or credit card ( often , but not always ) by the card number alone , the rental company wo n't care . All they need is to be able to charge the amount owed to them . On a separate note , I strongly advise that you think carefully whether you really need a car in Paris . Paris is one of the worst cities in Europe to drive in . Updated based on the comment : If you want to rent the car to go to Belgium , you may need to inform the rental company that you will be taking the car out of the country - which in turn may make the cost of rental more expensive . You will likely be breaking the terms of your rental contract if you take the car across the country border without notifying the rental company .
The astronomical spring ( Northern Hemisphere ) 2014 begins on March 20 and ends on June 20 , that includes USA .
It 's not that extreme . For mountains and forests : a ) Do n't block the road , not even partially . If that means you ca n't park , do n't . And do n't park in turns etc. where the car ca n't be seen by other drivers before reaching it . ( Remember buses , on roads where you would never expect them ) . b ) If it is eg . a road to a ski lift in winter , or touristy for some other reason , and you 're near a parking area , better use it . Otherwise , you should be fine . On most mountain roads etc. , outside of villages , you wo n't find marked parking space at all . However , I 'm not sure what you mean with " days " . If you plan to leave your car to sleep in the woods with a sleeping bag , someone could see your car on the roadside several times with some hours between = > worrying what happened to the owner = > car removed and police searching for you . In such situations , find a proper place to leave it . For small villages : If they 're small enough to not have marked parking space , you ca n't use it ...
You indicated in a comment that your wife has German citizenship , and that she will be traveling with your daughter ( and with you , though that 's not relevant for our purposes ) . Because of those facts , your daughter can benefit from freedom of movement as laid out in directive 2004/38/EC , as the family member of an EU citizen . It 's therefore not necessary for her to prove German nationality as a condition of being granted indefinite entry . Instead , your wife can prove her German nationality and that your daughter is her child .
The vehicle temporarily imported by the owner may be driven in Mexico by the spouse or adult children , as long as they have the same immigration status . Other persons may drive the vehicle as long as the owner is in the vehicle . <URL>
There are a reasonable number of car hire places which specialise in this kind of thing : essentially they rent you a car with track day insurance , and access to a track . Much like the " bring your own car " track days , but they provide the car too . <URL> ( UK site but covers other tracks in Europe ) <URL> Prices vary from around $ 200 to $ 8,000 + depending on the car you wish to hire and circuit Donington Park is about the cheapest circuit I know of . Circuits that host/have historically hosted Formula 1 events ( Spa/Monza/Silverstone etc ) tend to be more expensive , along with the Nurburgring and Le Mans . The Nurburgring is fairly cheap itself , but car hire there tends to be quite expensive .
When it 's open , you 're allowed to cross the line . <URL> . I had never actually heard that before , so I assume everybody else reasons the same way I did : it 's an open lane , you 're obviously supposed to use it as a perfectly normal lane , so the fact that it can only be reached by crossing an uncrossable line must be a visual illusion that can be safely ignored :-) It 's a normal lane in every respect , so you have to move there if there is no reason not to , and when in one , you ca n't overtake cars that drive in lanes further to the left . An important detail is that you should only look at the digital signs above the lane to decide whether the lane is open ( as you mentioned correctly ) , not at other signage to the side of the road . When the lane is open there is no emergency lane anymore , so when someone has to make an emergency stop , dangerous situations can arise . It will be immediately closed by means of the digital signs above the lane in that case ( turn into a red cross ) , but the signs at the side probably wo n't change .
end question
start question
What if one family member does n't have a photo ID for domestic air travel in India ?
As Air India mentions in their <URL> , For domestic journeys , along with a copy of your ticket , you will be required to show any of the following identification : Photo Identification of the passenger i.e. : Passport , Driving License , Pan Card , Voter card , Student ID , Military ID , Photo Credit Card , Airlines ID , Any Photo ID card by Airline , Any other photo card issued by Government agencies . <URL> also provides similar information , It is mandatory to produce a valid photo identification using the Kiosk check-in boarding pass for security clearance as well as for boarding . A valid photo identification could be an official Government issued photo identification , a driving license , an election photo identification , Passport ( for international guests ) , or a photo credit card What I infer from this is as long as you have any official documentation from the government or from the airline or a credit card with a photograph , this would be considered a valid photo ID . As far as I can understand the Marriage Certificate should be acceptable on grounds of being a photo identification issued by a Government agency , but there is no guarantee of this because Air India mentions Photo Card whereas Jet Airways does n't mention this at all . I would suggest you to use either a Voter ID or Aadhar Card .
I see that every answer here is going on and on about special , luxury trains . This is specifically what the OP does NOT want . <URL> , trains higher up in the hierarchy are usually costlier . There are some exceptions , such as ' Garib Raths ' where the air-conditioned fares are lower than those of ' Express ' or ' Mail ' trains , but by and large this list shows the hierarchy of trains . Within a specific hierarchy ( such as ' Express ' ) and for a specific fare class such as ' sleeper ' or ' third sleeper ' , the fare is proportional to distance . This implies that for ' regular ' trains , the most expensive fare simply depends upon the distance . This can be found from the list of <URL> .
As Air India mentions in their <URL> , For domestic journeys , along with a copy of your ticket , you will be required to show any of the following identification : Photo Identification of the passenger i.e. : Passport , Driving License , Pan Card , Voter card , Student ID , Military ID , Photo Credit Card , Airlines ID , Any Photo ID card by Airline , Any other photo card issued by Government agencies . <URL> also provides similar information , It is mandatory to produce a valid photo identification using the Kiosk check-in boarding pass for security clearance as well as for boarding . A valid photo identification could be an official Government issued photo identification , a driving license , an election photo identification , Passport ( for international guests ) , or a photo credit card What I infer from this is as long as you have any official documentation from the government or from the airline or a credit card with a photograph , this would be considered a valid photo ID . As far as I can understand the Marriage Certificate should be acceptable on grounds of being a photo identification issued by a Government agency , but there is no guarantee of this because Air India mentions Photo Card whereas Jet Airways does n't mention this at all . I would suggest you to use either a Voter ID or Aadhar Card .
Some airlines , like <URL> or <URL> allow name changes before the flight . Firstly , you should check with the carrier if ( and how ) can you correct your mother 's name . If it is not possible , she should bring her marriage certificate along with other documents that show her maiden name and her married name . <URL> you can check a real history ( and some tips ) from a just married traveler . She had no problem traveling with a ticket printed with her maiden name .
Skipping a flight you 're checked in for with bags is generally not a great idea . Since your bags ca n't fly without you ( because Terrorism ( tm ) ) , they have to unload your bags , which will almost certainly delay the flight and piss off the baggage handlers . In other words , doing this would usually be a bit of a dick move on your part . However , in this particular case ( as Doc notes ) , you 're flying internationally from Korea to DTW , which means your bags will be unloaded so you can collect them and take them through Customs . So : Nothing happens , you can simply leave during your layover . The airline will mark you as a no-show for that flight . Nobody cares if you do this occasionally , but the airline will eventually twig on if you do this ( say ) every week and might send you a nasty letter , confiscate your frequent flyer miles and/or ban you from flying with them again . and 4 . See above : you 're required to collect your bags at DTW anyway , so all you need to do is not check them back in afterwards .
It does depend what ticket you have , and who you 're with . If you are delayed on another RailTeam service , the <URL> feature means that you may not even need to rebook ( depends on the station ) , but if you do it 'll be easy . ( Keep the ticket from the delayed service though ! ) If you bought a domestic ticket that included <URL> , eg <URL> or <URL> , when you get to the Eurostar station you need to queue up at the ticket office , show them the ticket for the delayed service , and they 'll re-issue you with a new ticket for the next available Eurostar . If the delay means you missed the last train of the night , they 'll have to sort you out with accommodation too . If you do n't have a domestic ticket with CIV protections , then <URL> as soon as things go wrong , so they can put a note on your account that you may miss your Eurostar due to delays . Next , try to find someone from the train company who has delayed you to write on your ticket / give you a bit of paper confirming the delay . This bit is n't required , but it does seem to help ! Finally , when you get to the Eurostar terminal , queue up at the ticket desk , explain about the delay , show them the ticket for the delayed train , tell them you 've already spoken to customer services , and ask nicely . ( Whether or not you are already covered by CIV at this point is something that has n't been tested in court , so no-one 's quite sure , ditto for onward connections after ) . Generally , if you 'd left enough time had the delay not happened , Eurostar will re-book you onto the next available service . If you 're delayed getting to the Eurostar station by something other than a train , YMMV , so it 's probably best to leave more time for that . If you 're getting a long distance Eurostar ( eg a once-a-week train to the south of France ) , get there early as even if they can get you there another way , it 'll take longer and not be as good ! If you can buy a domestic ticket with <URL> , that 's the best as you know you 'll be fine . Otherwise , Eurostar are generally very friendly and helpful , and when I 've been delayed on a train getting to St Pancras they 've always helped me out :)
There are a few things you have to consider . I worked before at a hotel refilling those minibars . So I know a bit of how it works . Some hotels have an electronic system . This system registers if something has been taken from the minibar . Please note them some people replace a can of coke ( or take it out and after putting it back ) and the system will see that as " consumption " because of the technical limitation . In those cases they will check the minimbar to confirm . Some hotel force you to wait a few minutes . So they check if you used any paid items . After charge with Credit Card . Hotels can after charge once they discover something is missing . Only for CC customers . You might be lucky they discover it too late . Some will just ask and believe customers are honest . However they might charge you if you would enter your next stay there . Always note that some hotels work with blacklists . Once you are listed and hotels use the list , they will reject you . Many hotels might even share these with other hotels to protect the entire business . I would always recommend paying these services if you are planning to use them . Or else just find a convenience store in the area . I hope this might help you out a bit .
I would expect most countries to allow exceptions to their usual immigration procedures in cases of emergency ( there may even be some pieces of international legislation about this ) . Japan does , in <URL> : In the case of disease or any other accident which urgently requires the landing of a foreign national aboard a vessel or aircraft for the purpose of medical treatment , an immigration inspector may grant permission for emergency landing to the foreign national concerned based on an application by the captain of the vessel or aircraft or the carrier who operates the vessel or aircraft until the cause thereof ceases to exist , subject to a medical examination by a physician designated by the Minister of Health , Labour and Welfare or the Minister of Justice . ( Note that in Japanese immigration parlance , landing means entering Japan by passing through immigration , etc. )
Are there any current major Finnish cities where the architecture is medieval , or at least " pre modern " ( before the late 1600s ) ? In short , no . Compared to most countries in central and southern Europe , Finland has very few remaining medieval buildings ( or indeed buildings older than 100-200 years , sadly ) . Most buildings back then were wooden ( and primitive ) and have burnt down at some point or another . There are some medieval castles , however . These three are the most notable and best preserved : <URL> , oldest parts of which date from 1200s . Photo : <URL> , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1300s , in Hämeenlinna , <URL> <URL> , dating from 1400s , in Savonlinna , in the historical province of Savonia , Eastern Finland . <URL> ( Åbo in Swedish , which used to be the dominant language during most of its history ) is by far the oldest city in Finland , and besides the castle , there 's <URL> , originally from 13th century ( but largely rebuilt in 1800s ) . But if you go to Turku expecting to see a city centre with lots of historical buildings , you 'd be disappointed . Much of the centre consists of rather ugly buildings from 1960s and 70s ; e.g. . <URL> shows what I mean . To see lots of beautiful old buildings in Finland , even whole neighbourhoods of them , I 'd definitely recommend Helsinki . ( Besides the area around Senate Square , check out Kruununhaka , Katajanokka , Eira , Ullanlinna , Töölö , and Kallio districts . Oh , and the <URL> sea fortress which is awesome in summer . ) But by " old " , I mean mostly 1800s and early 1900s , nothing even close to medieval . Edit : Besides the castles , there are nearly 100 remaining medieval stone churches in Finland . <URL> ( in Finnish , but at least photos and dates are universally understandable ) . Of course , there 's typically just one of these in a town or village . Wikipedia also has a pretty comprehensive <URL> , ranging from 1748 to 1889 , with photos and addresses/coordinates . Edit 2 : <URL> , <URL> , should be mentioned too . It 's a UNESCO world heritage site that a guidebook I have ( The Rough Guide to Finland ) describes thusly : Despite the large number of tourists it attracts , the medieval core of Old Rauma ( Vanha Rauma ) , held within a narrow triangle of land bordered on two sides by the trickling Raumanjoki river , holds enough quiet lanes , paths and alleyways -- a total of six hundred individual buildings across a thirty-hectare area -- to allow you to explore almost undisturbed . ( Oldest buildings date from 18th century , as fires in 1640 and 1682 destroyed the town , so I guess it 's not strictly medieval . Or perhaps the architecture is ? )
I think you 'd be pleasantly surprised by the museums - they 're VERY interesting and not at all dry , especially the new Darwin Center at the Natural History Museum . People tend to be quite polarised about the London Eye - but the ability to go up high above central London in a glass ball is fun for all . Richmond Park ( if walking is ok ) is a great trip just outside of London . Take the train to Richmond ( 20 min on the fast train ) and walk up the hill - it 's a beautiful view as you walk up . Then in the park , there are two herds of deer - Red and Fallow - about 600 in total . My goal is always to find the deer - it 's a huge park and not always immediately obvious where they 've moved to on any given day , but you will find them if you look . Stop for a break at the ice-cream vendor in the middle , just above the lake on the eastern side of the park . And if you are into seeing animals , London Zoo has an amazing collection , and all types - be it mammals , reptiles , birds , fish or insects that you might want to see . World famous , highlights for me was seeing a live Okapi , and the giant anteaters ! . Borough Market is fantastic - it 's been around for nearly 1000 years , just on Southbank . It 's open from Thursday to Saturday , and the cheeses are fantastic ! Also have a Monmouth coffee at the southern end of the market . Afterwards , a walk up to the Thames and along Southbank is a really nice walk in either direction .
I think you might be able to use a password instead . See <URL> : Gift Ticket Orders ( GTO ) are available for purchase on this website . GTO allows you to purchase a ticket online for another person . This ticket is delivered to the departure bus station , under the following criteria : The buyer pays a non-refundable gift ticket fee at time of purchase , regardless of number of tickets purchased Tickets may not be sent outside the U.S. Both stations must be open at the time of the transaction and of ticket pick-up Buyer and recipient should allow three hours from time of purchase to departure time to complete the transaction Appropriate ID or a password is required to pick up the ticket [ emphasis added ! ] Only the purchaser may cancel the ticket or apply for a refund Ah , yeah , I 'm pretty sure now . See also <URL> : Will Call tickets allow you to purchase a ticket online and then pick it up at the counter . If the credit card holder is traveling on the trip , present the credit card used for purchase , the reference number ( displayed after purchase ) , and valid photo ID . If the credit card is not presented at the counter , a fee will apply . A non-refundable fee also applies for Will Call orders . If the credit card holder is not traveling on the trip , the reference number and valid photo ID are required to pick up tickets . You also can create a password for the traveler to use as ID . A non-refundable gift ticket fee is applied to each Will Call transaction where the credit card holder purchasing tickets is not traveling on that trip . [ Emphasis added again , obvs . ] Hope this works out ! Good luck !!
Yes , you need to collect and re-check . I 've done this many times at Auckland . The reason is immigration and customs is only at the Auckland international terminal . NZ has strict controls on luggage - and will xray and scan them for food , wood , and many other restricted items . You need to be with your luggage when this happens . If they checked it through for your domestic flight , then it would n't go through customs . Once you 're through with your luggage into actual NZ , it 's actually about a 1.2 km ( from memory ) walk , or a free shuttle ride to the domestic terminal , where you 'll get your flight to Queenstown . When flying to Queenstown , if you can , <URL> - the view is spectacular .
In general , the airline wo n't let you get on the plane . If you are refused entry to a country upon arrival , it is the airline 's responsibility to return you to your place of origin , so they have an interest in confirming that you hold the correct visa for your destination ( if required ) . Airlines frequently use a system called <URL> for this : IATA Timatic is the industry standard used by airlines and travel agents to verify passengers travel document requirements for their destination and any transit points . Airlines use this information to ensure their customers are compliant with border control rules and regulations . Timatic delivers personalized information based on the passenger 's destination , transit points , nationality , travel document , residence country etc. . It is your responsibility to make sure you have the required visa for your destination . The airline is unlikely to offer you a refund if you show up for departure with no visa .
All local tickets work on both trains/metro and buses . There is an Oyster-like contactless card called Rejsekort , which gives fares about half of those of discrete tickets . Unfortunately it 's not terribly convenient for visitors . The transport agencies are pushing hard to get everyone to use name-registered cards ( which require ordering in advance and having the card mailed to a Danish postal address ) . There are anonymous cards available , but they are quite expensive ( a 80 DKK issuing fee plus a minimum balance of 70 DKK ) and are only sold from selected ticket offices . There are vending machines that issue anonymous cards at the airport , at the central station , and at all metro stations . Leftover balances ( including the 70 DKK minimum balance ) can be refunded at very few places . Within Copenhagen the only opportunities seem to be the airport , at the main ticket counter at the central station , and at Valby station . To use the Rejsekort , touch in and out at the card readers in buses or at platforms , recognizable by a glowing blue disk . The card readers marked " check ind " is for touching in , and those marked " check ud " are for touching out . Touching out is optional if you 're continuing directly to a different train/bus where you touch in again , but if you leave the system without touching out , a penalty fare will be deducted . If you 're used to Oyster , note in particular that you must touch out when leaving a bus at the end of your journey ! For short visits , two types of 24-hour tickets exist , and can be bought from vending machines . City Pass ( 90 DKK for 24 hours ) is valid in fare zones 1 through 4 , which means a distance of roughly 5-6 kilometers from the city center plus the entire island of Amager ( so you can get to the airport ) . This also exists in a 72-hour variant for 200 DKK . A plain 24-hour ticket ( 130 DKK ) is valid in the entire Capital Region plus the old Roskilde County -- that is , up to distances of about 50 kilometers from Copenhagen ( except Sweden ) or everything to the north and east of the cities of Roskilde and Køge . Then there are 7-day " FlexCard " period tickets which can be good value if you travel a lot during a one-week visit . The downside is that you need to know in advance exactly which fare zones you need it to be valid , and figuring that out is probably not worth it for most visitors-for-pleasure .
Scotland is a big place and there is allot to see in every location . Additionally , the roads on the west coast , such as in Skye , are not fast roads . They twist and turn around mountains and lochs . 20 miles as the crow flies could work out as 100 miles of actual driving . To cover all those locations you 'd spend about 4 days constantly driving and you 'd really see nothing . Focus on say 3 days for one or two cities and then the rest of the week for highland touring . The order of events might be different from what I post . Scottish weather is very changeable . You should try to do city based things on wet days and keep drives in the countryside to sunny days . For cheap accommodation , opt for Bed and Breakfast ( B&amp;B ) rather than hotels . Youth hostels are also a good option . Remember that in peak season , accommodation can be scarce . Book in advance and make use of the Tourist Information centres in each town/village to find out about availability . Day 1 : Edinburgh : Start at the castle : budget about 2 hours to see around . Camera Obscura : Next to the castle entrance and has interesting displays and views of the whole city . Budget an hour . Walk down the Royal Mile . On the way , stop into St. Gyles Cathedral ( 20 mins ) . Find a restaurant near here to eat lunch . Continue down the Mile and visit Hollyrood Palace and the nearby Parliament buildings . If the weather is fine , go to one of the parks for late afternoon . Such as Hollyrood , Princes Gardens , Botanical Gardens . If the weather is poor , head to one of the many museums or the National Gallery . Day 2 : Glasgow : Do this on a wet day as it 's mostly indoors stuff . Museums : Choose one of : Transport Museum , Kelvengrove Museum and Art Gallery , Clyde Built , Science Museum , Scotland Street School Museum . Glasgow has some of the best Indian restaurants . Best time to go is lunch time as most do a low priced lunch menu . Afternoon go shopping in the city centre . Pop into Willow Tea Rooms for afternoon tea , coffee and scones and enjoy the Art Deco furnishings created by Rennie Mackintosh . Late afternoon go to the Necropolis for a atmospheric , if spooky , end to the day . In the evening , enjoy the Glasgow night life in the Merchant City and around George Square . Highlands : In my opinion , the highlands are best approached from Glasgow rather than from Edinburgh . The A81/A812 runs north through the Trossachs . The A82 runs up Loch Lomond side , through Glen Coe and on up to Fort William , Loch Ness and Inverness . The A83 will take you norht then west into Argyle Day 3 : Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park : Head out of Glasgow on the A81 towards Aberfoyle . Stop in at the Glengoyne Distillery to sample the whisky . Remember no drinking and driving . When you get near Aberfoyle , turn left onto the A821 . Pause occasional to admire the views . Stop at Loch Katrine and take the steam boat up and down the loch . Continue on the A821 then right onto the A85 to Callader . Walk through the village and find somewhere here for lunch . Backtrack on the A85 and head north . Again Pausing occasionally at view points . Continue north and west to Crianlarich then turn south on the A82 . At Tarbot , turn left onto the A83 and continue towards Inveraray . Find lodings near here for the night . Day 4 : Argyle : After viewing Ineraray Jail and the Castle , drive south on the A83 to Lochgilphead . Turn left onto the A816 and head north . Stop of at the ancient ruins along this road including Dunadd fort site , the stone circles and chamber cairns at and the church and ancient gravestones at Kilmartin Church and the neighbouring house museum . There is also the ruined Carnasserie Castle in this area which is worth looking at . Continue on to Oban . Lodge here overnight . Visit the McCaigs Tower and walk along the sea front . This is an excellent place to try the Scottish favourite dish - Fish &amp; Chips . For the best experience , take the food out of the restaurant and eat on the sea front . Day 5 : Islands : No trip to Scotland would be complete without visiting on of the islands . Leaving the car in Oban , take the ferry to Mull . Ferries run from Oban to the Isle of Mull and back 6 times daily in summer . <URL> at <URL> . On the island you have a choice of things to see , but not time for everything . Either head south to Iona Abby . This famous Christian site is very interesting . Or else go north to Tobermory - picturesque fishing village . Since you are not driving , you may stop in a the Tobermory Distillery and enjoy a dram of whisky . There is also a distillery in Oban too . Make sure you get back in time for the last ferry to Oban . Again overnight here . Day 6 : Glen Coe : Take the A85 east out of Oban , pause to view the Falls of Laura at Connel Bridge then head north on the A828 towards Fort William . Pause just outside Portnacoish to view the scenery overlooking Castle Stalker . Try to find some hotel before Ballachulish for lunch . Join the A82 east/south signed for Glasgow . This will take you through Glen Coe . Drive
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
When I checked in for Icelandair , with a 10 day stopover the checking online page stated ' your stopover is longer than 24 hours , you can not check in for the second leg ' which I think is an indication that up to 24 hours is norm for them . But in case they do not want to keep your luggage , I found you <URL> . Information about Bílahótel Luggage Storage . Our Luggage storage is located 500 meters from the departure side of the airport . We are behind the Airport Hotel . Same building as Geysir and Sixt Car Rentals . The office is open from 05:00 -- 17:00 ( 05:00 -21:00 15 May -- 15 Sept ) . The price for each bag the first week is 5 Euros per day and 1 Euro per day after that . The price for odd-size luggage the first week is 6 Euros per day and 2 Euros per day after that . That page also has a contact us link .
Yes there is a form to be filled , and that is the arrival card which you usually get it during the flight . The form has simple fields : Name , date of birth , passport information , address in Indonesia , duration of stay and flight number along with other usual stuff . No tricky or smart questions like in visa forms of other countries . This form should be handed to the immigration desk currently , not to the VOA desk like before . UPDATE ( 2016 ) : Earlier in 2016 , no more landing cards and no more VOAs are required , except for business visas . All tourists who required a VOA before are now eligible to enter without landing cards or a printed VOA for 30 days , no more fees to be paid as well . The customs form is still required .
Can I submit my brother 's bank statement instead of mine ? Your brother is acting as the sponsor , so yes . But to be clear , both of you must submit bank statements . His are needed to establish financial viability on your behalf ; yours are needed to explain your circumstances in Egypt . will they compare ? They will refer to your earlier application and may compare . This should not be a big problem if everything is transparent . If you have large movements in your bank account , they should be accompanied by an explanation . They get very worried when people contemplate a trip to the UK and their bank statements show recent movements that are irregular . That sort of thing does n't usually happen with genuine visitors and hence they start looking at V 4.2 ( c ) is genuinely seeking entry for a purpose that is permitted by the visitor routes ( these are listed in Appendices 3 , 4 and 5 ) ; What type of visa should I apply for ? You want to change from a visit of four months to a visit of a week . In this case it makes more sense to select the business visitor . Remember that the online form has n't been changed yet so it does n't sync up with the visas available under the new rules . So regardless of what you select , your application will be assessed as a ' Standard Visitor ' governed by <URL> of the rules . and , bearing in mind the reasons given for the recent refusal , what documents I should submit ? The <URL> contains a thorough walk-through of what both you and your brother should submit for evidence . That answers your question . If you are following through with the guidance and find yourself with an evidential shortfall arising from the guidance you can always ask another question . Overall I think this plan is misconceived . Your GMC appointment is in 6 weeks . You have not yet studied the rules or the guidance and have not yet begun to assemble your evidence ; it 's further compounded by the logistics of having your brother send you his evidence from the UK so that his stuff will be fresh at application time . Surely it will take him some time to gather his documents , authenticate them and post them to you . Plus you need to get translations for your stuff . Plus you have a refusal to explain along with a compelling change of circumstances to compose and submit . You may wish to ask your brother to instruct a <URL> to minimally provide you with a consultation and doc check .
Turkey and Armenia have strained relations for somewhat obvious reasons , but it 's not on the same level as , say , Israel and the Arab world . There have even been faltering moves in the last decade to try to heal the rift and ease towards increased trade , and where these have fallen down , it 's been as much to do with pressure on Turkey from Azerbaijan ( recently at war with Armenia and with an unresolved open conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh ) as direct emnity between Armenia and Turkey . Opposition to rebuilding trade with Turkey on the Armenian side is stronger from the ( influential ) Armenian diaspora than it is within unemployment-ravaged Armenia itself - it 's much easier to say " no compromise " when you 're the other side of the world to where the consequences are felt . For example , <URL> : Turkey has canceled the first ever scheduled Turkish flights to its long-time rival Armenia , days before the first plane was due to take off , officials have said , following fierce opposition from Turkey 's ally and energy partner Azerbaijan . The twice-weekly flights between Turkey 's eastern city of Van and the Armenian capital Yerevan were due to begin on April 3 and , encouraged by a U.S. push for rapprochement , were meant to boost bilateral tourism and trade . It 's possible to book flights from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Russia , usually ) , and buses from Turkey to Armenia ( albeit via Georgia ) . Of course it 's always possible you might encounter a particularly partisan individual border guard , who might use it as an excuse to make a fuss or try to obtain a bribe , but the airport is generally pretty professional by the standards of the region - when this sort of thing happens , it tends to be on the land border with Georgia . Such ( relatively rare ) situations can usually be resolved by staying calm , avoiding confrontation , and if necessary saying something like " I 'm sorry , I do not understand . May I speak to your supervisor ? " . In extreme cases , I 've heard stories of people turning such situations around with a disparaging comment or vulgar joke about the country that is the source of the anger , but for ethical reasons it 's best not to stoke and legitimatise this kind of nationalism unless you feel genuinely in danger and there 's no obvious alternative . I 've not known anyone feel the need to resort to this travelling into Armenia having travelled in Turkey , and definitely not in the airport - in fact , I think the incident I 'm thinking of , they were travelling into Azerbaijan having travelled in Armenia . The wounds from the Armenian-Azeri war are much fresher and more raw in the Caucasus itself than those between Armenia and Turkey . You wo n't need to do anything like this in the airport in Yerevan .
end question
start question
Overstayed my US visa for over 9 years , never got deported , can I return as a tourist ?
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
This can not be answered in absolute terms since the availability of tickets is not always given . Currently , for example , <URL> . There is , to my knowledge , no limitations who can get tickets to these shows , as long as they are available at all . As Ilya noted , <URL> in late 2012 how you can get standby-tickets by waiting outside of the studio .
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
For travel in the US ( which I did in April ) you only need your passport as a form of ID . This is for the immigration process ( you 'll need a visa , most likely , in your passport ) , and for all internal flights as well . It is possible to fly internally without a passport as a foreigner , as an English friend did in April as well , but it was VERY difficult , as every security person expects you to have your passport available to travel with .
You should apply to the <URL> or the <URL> in Rotterdam . Here is the <URL> . You may get a visa ( tourist card ) also through your travel agency , even if you do not plan your trip via the agency .
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
<URL> has a cafe , which is open to everyone , just like any other cafe . It 's a great place to go , hang out , and just meet random people . At the top of the building , they also have a big room with a bar that I have been once at an event . According to their <URL> , as of July 2013 , you can book a DAYTICKET for 12 EUR . It looks , however , that you also would have to book a BASIC MEMBERSHIP , which costs 10 EUR per month . Plus , you can book five hours ( really that little ? ) of meeting room for 25 EUR per month . Maybe it 's possible that only one of you books , then invites the others as guests for a meeting . Complicated . I suggest contacting them . That being said , Betahaus is most likely the biggest coworking space in Berlin , but that does n't say anything about it 's quality . I 've been there many times , also to the <URL> , but I never used their coworking facilities . Co-Up , another coworking space that I have visited a couple of times , <URL> a meeting room for 150 EUR per day . And , of course , there is <URL> , a huge hacker space . I assume they would be happy to provide space in case that it is an open event . Other than that , you can visit them at any time , and hang out there , even as a non-member . You only have to pay for drinks . I have been there a couple of times on evenings , and I do n't know if they are normally open during the day . Again , contact them . I forgot : <URL> . According to <URL> , it costs 15 EUR per day . I used the place in 2008 for one month , extending my stay week by week . No membership was needed . The place is targeted at travelers ! It 's nice and in a good location , though without a separate meeting room . Just ask , perhaps there are not many guests at the moment . A good overview of coworking spaces you find on <URL> , a Berlin enterprise .
The US Government does n't publicly specify how it decides on a person 's eligibility for a visa , hence there can be no " official " answer to your query . In general , your local embassy will only know that you applied for the Green Card Lottery , if you are selected as those names are sent to the embassy , non-selected names that are not . But they do ask if you have previously applied . And so it is up to you to decide on how honest to be . What an immigration lawyer told me ( a neighbor ) is that if your qualifications are solid for the visa , having applied for the lottery has little effect . But if you are borderline , then it becomes a bigger factor .
I 'm answering as a frequent traveler to Russia ( have been to many different cities there over the course of many years ) . First , in all my travels and interactions with Russian authorities , I have never once been asked by any government official for any registration papers ( though I 've always registered when required by law ) . A lot of the scary warnings about registering in Russia date back to the early 2000s , when the laws were much stricter and it was a real possibility to be stopped in the streets of Moscow by police for a random registration check ( as I understand it , such checks are illegal now ) . Registration law has undergone a lot of changes over the years , most notably the official Federal Migration Service site mentions a significant change/relaxation of the law in 2007 ( see <URL> in Russian ) Having said all of the above , here is my understanding of the information on the site above , as well as of the text of the law itself ( <URL> ) : If you 're staying in a hotel ( even for one day ) , the hotel will register you Otherwise , you 're required to register within 7 days of arrival to your " place of stay " ( " место пребывания " ) . It is reasonable to interpret it as " within 7 days of arriving to a particular city " ( there is other mention in the law of being able to change the " place of stay " so I 'm guessing " place of stay " does NOT mean the " final destination " of the trip ) . Sadly , however , there 's no clarification of this anywhere in the law . I guess it would be up to a judge/local authorities to interpret , but again - I do n't think realistically this is a problem . In your situation , I would just keep all the travel documentation and not worry about registering . Confusingly , the English-language page ( <URL> ) does mention registration within 7 days of arriving in Russia ( with no mention of the " place of stay " ) , but I 'm pretty sure this is just a poor translation , or instructions for the common case of someone visiting a single place in Russia . In any case , the English page is not the actual law . If you want to be super-safe , spend your 1st night in a hotel/hostel ( this way you technically are registered in the first 7 days since your arrival ) . Given how confusing this area of the law is , you of course wo n't be immune from random annoyances given your registration-less status . I can think of one example where this happened to me : A hotel clerk ( in a proper , expensive , Western-style hotel ) refused to register me because I have n't registered anywhere within 7 days of arriving into Russia ( because I was hopping from city to city ) - basically , they took the interpretation of the law as stated on the English page above - however , this happened just once , and I do n't think the hotel clerk was an expert on migration law , I think she was just trying to play it safe in the face of confusing information Please keep in mind that I 'm not a lawyer ( especially not a Russian one ) Registration has been an unpleasant and time-consuming process every time I 've done it ( trying to fit into the local FMS office 's schedule , lineups , complex forms that have to be refilled multiple times until you get it just right , extensive documentation requirements - proof of apartment ownership and such , etc ) . It 's worth avoiding it if at all possible .
They do n't . The US does not know how many people have overstayed their visas . This implies that in any individual case , the US ca n't be sure whether a person has complied with visa terms . As others have mentioned , the US tracks exits by gathering data from the airlines and other carriers . However , because the US does n't have exit controls , the system can easily be defeated . See , for example , the New York Times article <URL> . A visitor to the US could fool the system by checking in for an international flight ( for example , to London ) and then swapping boarding passes with someone on a domestic flight ( for example , to Chicago ) . The visitor then flies to Chicago , and the confederate flies to London . The US government believes that the vistor has left the country , but in fact , the visitor is in Chicago .
Normally if you 're stopped or involved in an accident police officers are asking for 3 things : License Registration Proof of Insurance . Normally in the case of the rental from a private party or from a car rental company you do n't have car registration available but you do have a rental agreement signed by you and an authorized representative allowing you to drive the car . <URL> formerly known as <URL> provides this service for you so they must have formalized to process but I do n't have their contract available but I have found a few others online <URL> <URL> and so on . One of the things that could pose a problem is actually insurance . I have n't found any companies in the US in any state that will sell a policy to a non-US resident for a limited term , but a policy holder in the US ( and your friend will have to have one to register the car ) will be allowed to add you as a foreign driver to his/her insurance thus clearing the last obstacle ( this may vary from state to state and company to company ) . P.S. . There have been anecdotal evidence that a possession of a car registration allows you to legally drive someone else 's car but I ca n't find any proof of that so do n't take it at face value .
<URL> : Visitor visas are nonimmigrant visas for persons who want to enter the United States temporarily for business ( visa category B-1 ) , tourism , pleasure or visiting ( visa category B-2 ) , or a combination of both purposes ( B-1 / B-2 ) . Therefore , although your original plans might have changed , you should be allowed to visit the US as a tourist on that visa . Obviously , you 'll have to explain your travel purposes when entering the US . Be honest about your change of plans and make sure you have all the necessary documentation to prove that you are not trying anything illegal .
What they are looking for is that you have both the means and the intention to leave the country by the time your visa expires . Therefore , " round-trip " should be understood as " not one-way " . Therefore , you 'll have to provide a copy of your tickets and flight itinerary , or a letter from your travel agent that contains all the details of your flight reservation . A hotel reservation wo n't suffice , since it does n't say anything about you leaving again . An email directly from the Brazilian Consulate in Houston confirms this : Dear Sir/Madam , You must present the ticket or reservation with your flight or cruise in and out of Brazil . Origin and destination may be different as long as you are allowed to leave for the country of your outbound flight . Visa Department Consulate General of Brazil in Houston , TX visa.houston@itamaraty.gov.br
According to the rules ( <URL> , in French ) , you have to be resident in the country where you apply . The key paragraph is the first : Les étrangers désireux de se rendre en Algérie doivent présenter à leur arrivée un passeport en cours de validité muni d’un visa d’entrée sur le territoire Algérien délivré par l’Ambassade ou le Consulat algérien du lieu de résidence habituel du demandeur . A l’exception des pays où les formalités de visa ne sont pas exigées ( voir liste des pays ) . Listes des pays non soumis aux formalités de visa : TUNISIE , MAROC , MAURITANIE , LYBIE , YÉMEN , MALI , MALAISIE , RASD , SEYCHELLES , SYRIE A rough , fairly liberal , translation is ( emphasis mine ) : Foreigners wishing to enter Algeria should present on arrival a valid passport affixed with an entry visa for Algeria , delivered by the Algerian Embassy or Consulate in their habitual place of residence . This is with the exception of countries with no visa required ( see list ) . List of countries : Tunisia , Morocco , Mauritania , Libya , Yemen , Mali , Malaysia , the SADR , the Seychelles and Syria So to answer your question , unless you are habitually resident in Morocco , you technically can not apply for an Algerian visa there .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
There is nothing in the regulations that prevents an applicant from using a hospitality exchange or social networking for accommodation . They would treat these arrangements in the same way as if friends were offering you a place , but since they are not real friends , you will need to be a bit careful with how you present your evidence . It means you ca n't just say ' couchsurfing ' on your application ; instead you 'll need to demonstrate that firm arrangements are in place with each provider and that these arrangements are an acceptable substitute for a personal invitation . It would be wise to include a ' backup provider ' for each place you plan to stay to show that you have a contingency if the planned accommodation is not available or turns out to be unsafe or unlawful or otherwise unacceptable .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
Per the <URL> , a " general visitor " ( with or without visa , depending on citizenship ) should not " live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or successive visits " . So if you already made several long stays and try to come back for several months , there might be a ( small ? ) risk that the border force officer checking your passport would suspect you are lying about the purpose of your stay in the UK and are actually living there illegally . I also remember reading about a limit of not more than six months in any twelve months but I do n't know if it 's a hard limit or just a rule of thumb and I ca n't find any official source for that . If that 's the case , traveling around March should be no problem , traveling in May would be more difficult ( if I understand your description correctly , at that point , you will have spent 8 months of the previous year in the UK ) . I am not a lawyer but I assume that formally , as in most countries , neither a proper visa ( if your situation made one necessary ) nor a previous visit would entitle you to enter the UK . Border officers will typically evaluate whether your fulfill the requirements for entry every time you cross the border , which means that every time you leave the country , you expose yourself to the risk of being refused entry , however small . In any case , if you are questioned at the border , anything you might provide to establish that you are a legitimate visitor ( details and documentation of where you stayed and will be staying , details of people you want to visit or things you want to do , name of places you intend to see , funds to support yourself , a return ticket to your country of residence , etc. ) might be helpful .
Amtrak does not allow stopovers , but they do have a multi-city option on their web site , and if you book one ticket of multiple legs it may be intelligent enough to do better than adding up one-way fares . If you do n't book a sleeper berth , the fare is not that high ; Los Angeles to Emeryville as low as $ 50 if booked far in advance . ( Note discount tickets may not be refundable . ) Also , this train is 100 % reserved seats , and may sell out .
The scheme for Iranians to visit Georgia visa-free was <URL> . Unless they qualify for <URL> , Iranian citizens now need a visa ( which can be <URL> ) . This arose from two issues : First , the USA suggesting to Georgia that they should not let Iranians come into the country so easily ; and second , Georgia 's long-term desire to eventually become an EU member state . <URL> : 30 days visa-free entry for those born in Georgia but who are not citizens ; 90 in 180 days for those holding a valid visa or residence permit for a Schengen member state , or for Australia , Bahrain , Bermuda , British Virgin Islands , Canada , Cayman Islands , Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , Israel , Japan , Kuwait , New Zealand , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Turks and Caicos Islands , USA , or United Arab Emirates . Given the contents of this list , it 's quite possible that your Iranian friend already has such a visa .
end question
start question
Does Global Entry help when entering the US by bus or train ?
The train stops at the Niagara Falls NY train station , and everyone is inspected there . Your NEXUS card works as a passport card so you do n't need to carry your passport , but it wo n't save any time .
If you try to book a ticket with <URL> , you can immediately see if there are free seats in the train . You can even try to place several orders in your shopping cart ( for some reason not more than 6 tickets per order ) and estimate how many seats are yet available . For the next few days , the IC 200 seem to have at least 20 seats free , so I would assume that within reason , you can expect to get a ticket on short notice . The cheapest tickets for the train seem to be the MÁV " Zagreb Special " offer for 8990 HUF or about 29 $ . If I understand the conditions properly , there is no contingent for the tickets and they are available for sale even on the same day . At least I am able too book a ticket now for the IC 200 departing in about six hours . You can order the ticket online and pick it up at a Hungarian railway station or buy it at the station .
You are asked those things for ( as far as I can tell ) two reasons . One is to simply observe your demeanor . The idea is that someone who is concealing something will give conflicting , vague , or over-detailed answers to simple questions . The other is to seek real information that can be used to distinguish smugglers from travelers . For example , I once had the following conversation with the Border lady : " How long was your trip ? " " 10 days . " " Where did you go ? " " The Golden Triangle : northern Thailand and eastern Burma . " " Did you travel alone . " " Yes . " " Did you meet anyone while you were traveling ? " " Sure , dozens of people . " Needless to say , everything I was carrying was examined minutely . I did n't know you could disassemble a Bic pen . Do you have to answer ? No , you can decline to answer if you 're a US citizen , but think about it . In general , you should be extremely reluctant to answer any questions about your own activities from law enforcement . You might think you have done nothing wrong , but do you have the US Code committed to memory ? They say the average American commits <URL> ; you do n't want to accidentally confess to yours . But if you go through a border-check , they are going to ask you questions . They are n't trying to incriminate innocent people ; they are trying to sort out the smugglers . If you do n't answer , they have to throw you on the maybe-smuggler category and go through all your belongings . So my advice : If you have done anything on your journey that might jam you up with the Feds ( visited Cuba , traded with a sanctioned country ) but your luggage is squeaky clean , decline to answer questions and let them rummage through your underwear . If you were a naughty boy and you are bringing back a few grams of fond memories , smile politely and say , " I just lay on the beach for two weeks . " Otherwise , answer the questions politely , accurately , and concisely .
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
You will not have an extra two months . The visa is valid once it is issued ; even if you do not utilize ( ie , travel ) on the visa . Unless canceled or revoked , a visa is valid until its expiration date . Therefore , a valid U.S. visa in an expired passport is still valid . If you have a valid visa in your expired passport , do not remove it from your expired passport . You may use your valid visa in your expired passport along with a new valid passport for travel and admission to the United States . A visa is a permit to enter the country . It is also not a guarantee of entry ( you can still be denied by border control even if you hold a valid visa ) . Generally on a B1 visa , once you enter the country - you are allowed to stay for 6 months ( sometimes , up to a year on entry ) . For example , you get a visa on July 1st valid for 6 months ; you can travel anytime between July 1st and December 1st - after December 1st , your visa is no longer valid ( even if you did not travel on it ) . It does not matter if you fly on July 2nd , or November 2nd - the visa expiry does not change .
Overnight buses in Turkey run when the distance between the origin and destination is enough to allow a departure before midnight and an arrival after six in the morning . However , you do n't get many six-hour routes that operate overnight . When a city is not the origin or destination , it is possible to find buses that pass through so that you get an overnight trip . Göreme is too close to Ankara for overnight service , and since Ankara and Göreme ( actually Nevşehir ) are major destinations , they are most often terminus cities and do n't get as much through traffic . You 'll probably have to take a day bus .
The train stops at the Niagara Falls NY train station , and everyone is inspected there . Your NEXUS card works as a passport card so you do n't need to carry your passport , but it wo n't save any time .
They do n't . The US does not know how many people have overstayed their visas . This implies that in any individual case , the US ca n't be sure whether a person has complied with visa terms . As others have mentioned , the US tracks exits by gathering data from the airlines and other carriers . However , because the US does n't have exit controls , the system can easily be defeated . See , for example , the New York Times article <URL> . A visitor to the US could fool the system by checking in for an international flight ( for example , to London ) and then swapping boarding passes with someone on a domestic flight ( for example , to Chicago ) . The visitor then flies to Chicago , and the confederate flies to London . The US government believes that the vistor has left the country , but in fact , the visitor is in Chicago .
There is no nationally , or even locally mandated standard . I 've certainly seen friends have no issues using both Passports and Drivers Licenses from their home country . I 've also seen people have issues - especially when their ID is written in a non-latin script , or when they have a DOB which can be misread by using a non-American date ordering scheme , ( i.e. someone born on August the 10th , 1992 , would have their BOD listed as 8/10/92 here in the states , and would be of legal drinking age . If their ID instead reads 10/8/92 a not particularly sharp waiter may give you a hard time - admittedly , an extreme edge case . ) Realistically , there 's no single answer that can be provided here however , because there is no standard for what 's accepted . At the end of the day , the acceptability of your proof of age is up to the merchant with whom you do business to evaluate . You 'll have an easier time in more cosmopolitan cities like New York , but realistically , you ca n't do much better than your Passport , and I 've almost never seen an issue with one .
Usual regional ( not highspeed ) trains do n't require ( or offer ) reservations ; so yes , you can just go there , buy a ticket , and enter the train . However , the South Korean " standing seat " system ( if I understood it correctly ) is not known here . With reservation , you 'll have a guaranteed seat ; and without reservation , you may have to stand ( anywhere ) or you 're lucky and find an empty , unreserved seat . There are no lower prices for people refraining from using seats at all . For many high-speed trains ( ES Frecciarossa/Frecciargento/Frecciabianca , InterCity ) , seat reservations are mandatory . For Pisa-Firenze , this wo n't be a problem , there are many regional trains ( I 'm not even sure if there are non-regional trains at all ) . If you need/want to take a high-speed train somewhere , usually it 's still no problem to buy the ticket right before entering ; most trains are not sold out . However , buying in advance is probably cheaper .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
If you have some specific plan and are not moving constantly , consider booking specific trains directly . This will definitely be cheaper than renting a car for several weeks and will probably be cheaper than an Eurail pass as well . You can read more about elsewhere on this site or on <URL> but since many trains have restrictions for Eurail pass holders , they do n't provide as much flexibility as they used to , especially in France . An important factor is whether you are traveling alone or not . With a group , traveling by car can be cheaper but if you are alone it 's likely to be much more expensive . Depending on where you come from , you might find petrol to be quite expensive ( less than in the UK or the Netherlands , though ) and you have to remember that most motorways are toll roads ( crossing France East-West will cost you about 60 $ toll , that 's excluding petrol and any other cost for the car ) . If you need to cover long distances ( say go from Paris to the South of France ) , trains are also likely to be faster and more comfortable so the car 's main advantage is really flexibility . Regarding snow , I do n't think it should be a big concern , certainly for Normandy or most of the South and West of France . Unfortunately , I think most rental cars will not be fitted with winter tires so if you are unlucky and there are a couple of snowy days in December , the best solution would be to " sit them out " wherever you are and just delay the next step of your trip for a day or two . Driving with tire chains is only ever necessary in mountainous area when there is a layer of snow on the road , which is almost never the case for long on main roads ( besides , you ca n't drive fast with tire chains so it 's a last resort to reach some isolated places , not something you would realistically do on a long trip ) . If anything , ice or " freezing rain " is more often a problem than snow . Finally , Normandy as a whole is n't a rural area at all . There are relatively large cities with heavy industry and decent connections to Paris by train . At the same time , if you want to visit the rural or coastal parts of Normandy , a car would certainly be useful and give you a lot more flexibility .
Generally the burden is on you to prove onward travel . Whether that be air or land . Some case examples : I flew into Canada , and was going to bus to the USA . I had to prove I had a bus ticket to leave I flew into Argentina , with the intention of busing around South America . I had a return ticket to the UK . This was fortunate , as it at least showed I planned on leaving at some point . I was still then able to bus out . I was required to prove this even before getting on the plane TO Argentina - airlines can be fined if they let you onboard without proof of onward travel AND a valid visa / entry permit . Therefore , you will likely need either a plane ticket out of Brazil which you will then ' decide ' not to use , or will need to purchase a bus ticket in advance . At a push , having a hotel booked in Argentina might be enough , as it 's evidence you 're leaving . I 've been told by people that Canada is satisfied enough with such proof , given you could go to Niagara Falls and then walk across , although I 've not put that to the test .
I had someone coming from Seattle to Vancouver to check out the station carefully and there is no sight of GE or NEXUS machines .
I have an APEC card . Mine does not include India - I must find if it has been added recently ! In a number of cases I have had visa free entry as a NZ citizen ( Singapore , Malaysia , Brunei , Australia ) so do not need the card there . In China I have used it once or twice without major hassles . It was more a matter of unfamiliarity on the part of officials that caused a slight ripple . eg the lack of a visa sticker in the passport needed to be explained on one occasion with reference to the card . As most airports have APEC cardholder lanes at customs this is usually not an issue . I did not feel under any threat of non-entry in China - which is what would happen without a visa as they have no visa on arrival arrangements . India does not appear to be part of the APEC card list for NZ . It may be different for the UK but I doubt that it is .
It requires some explanation but it is not unusual . It was actually my toughest CBP interview so far ( at about 2 minutes of questioning , so I would n't worry too much ) . Once the guy found the Canadian border entry stamp he seemed happy about it . No documents or other information was sought from me , just a coherent explanation of how this had happened and about my travel plans . I was then re-admitted as normal for 90 days . No one has mentioned it since then but it comes up blank in my I94W travel history . Please see also my answer to this question : <URL>
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
In fact , your potential for scenic views will be higher on virtually any mode of transportation other than the bus ( plane , train , private car , boat ) . There is quite stunning scenery along the coast . Amtrak 's <URL> follows some of it , between San Luis Obispo and Oxnard , and a seat can be had for as little as $ 60 coach . But keep in mind that this trip will take a minimum of 12 hours from Oakland to Los Angeles , that there is only one train a day , and this train is frequently delayed . Renting a car and driving gives you the most flexibility to enjoy coastal scenery along routes such as the <URL> and <URL> . Of course , a one-way rental is costly , fuel is astronomically expensive by U.S. standards along parts this route , and as you can imagine , driving along oceanside cliffs is exhausting . Buses do not take the coastal route for the same reasons , aside from some tour buses that may take three or four days to make the journey . The scheduled passenger services all take the straight , fast , flat route through the Central Valley along Interstate 5 . As you can imagine , a freeway trip amidst heavy truck traffic passing through an endless series of farms and ranches is not particularly memorable . The bus does offer certain advantages over flying , but I would rate them all as moderate . Cost . An advanced purchase one-way Megabus ticket between Union Station in LA and the CalTrain terminal in SF runs around $ 34 ( and can be as low as $ 10 ) . The ride is about 7-8 hours . An advanced purchase Southwest Airlines ticket from LAX to OAK starts around $ 69 , with a block time of around 1 1/2 hours . Keep in mind too that on a long bus journey , you will be taking a meal at a truck stop , probably overpriced and of poor quality . Convenience . The necessity of airport transportation and security screening makes the time savings of a flight less dramatic , especially when services like <URL> offer stops in several neighborhoods . On the flip side , LAX , SFO , and OAK do have relatively convenient bus or rapid transit connections . Comfort . The bus is arguably more comfortable and offers more amenities , but this is offset by its much longer travel time . For example , many buses on this city pair offer in-seat power and WiFi , whereas few of the aircraft do ; however , the need for either is diminished on a 90-minute trip . By the time my bus would trudge through Kettleman City , I could already be checking email in a cafe in Santa Monica . Reliability . LAX and SFO are prone to fog at certain times of the year that is heavy enough to cause flight delays or cancellations . On the other hand , there are so many flights between the two areas ( dozens and dozens of flights if you include nearby airports ) that it is easy to be re-accommodated on a later flight the same day . In short , if you have money to spare , I 'd fly . If you have both time and money , I 'd take the train . The bus is a viable option , but it is a compromise .
Kuwait 's system is similar to what has been deployed in the UAE . It allows you to apply online for the visa , and then collect it ( rather , get it stamped or entered ) when you arrive at the border . The process is outlined at <URL> ; along with the restrictions and approvals . You can apply on your own ( start <URL> ) , you do n't need a sponsor to apply on your behalf . The " E " in the e-visa means that you are no longer given a paper document or required to carry one with you .
EDITED : I ca n't delete this one as it has been accepted but a newer answer has more details , be sure to check it out ! I saw a journey from Seattle to Pusan in 19 days and from Vancouver to Pusan in 14 days so that should give you a ballpark figure for the time it takes to cross the Pacific ocean nowadays ( albeit in the other direction ) . Here are a few specific trips in the direction you asked about : <URL> in 17 days . <URL> through the Panama canal in 26 days . Both of these start from China because all the ships I could find either go to China before returning to the US and/or do not allow passengers to embark ( but only to disembark ) in South Korea . I do n't know whether that 's a general rule , you would have to contact an agent specialising in this to find out .
end question
start question
Invitation letter to Canada sent by email . Will this be a problem ?
You only need to <URL> if the consulate has advised you that you need one . This typically is not the case for tourist visas . If they have not advised you to supply an invitation letter , then it is optional . If the consulate instructs you that the invitation letter must be notarized , then your sponsor must print it out , have it notarized in Canada , and post it to you . If it does not need to be notarized , then a copy sent by email should be sufficient . If you 're not sure if you need an invitation letter , contact the consulate serving your area . They can tell you if you need an invitation letter for the visa type you are applying for , and whether it must be notarized . Note that , according to the instructions , the sponsor 's proof of income is only necessary for the parent and grandparent super visa . If this is not the visa you are applying for , then your sponsor does not need to supply bank statements .
Actually , just found the <URL> . The article states that SASCO had signed an agreement to resume the Ferry service from Sakhalin to Hokkaido using " Пингвин-33 " as a ship . <URL>
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
If you have a sufficiently modern iPhone ( eg . anything that runs iOS 9 would be fine ) , then enable a passcode , set " Require Passcode " to " Immediately " ( so you have to enter it every time you open the phone ) or something short . The phone 's memory is encrypted using a key derived from the passcode . No passcode , no personally identifiable data . If you do this , then the chance of identity theft due to a stolen phone is effectively zero .
You do not need to renew your passport or obtain an emergency travel document to travel from the US to the UK as a British Citizen . You will be admitted to the United Kingdom with your expired passport . Your difficulty is returning to the USA . However , it will be a lot quicker and cheaper to take advantage of the renewal process while in the United Kingdom . See <URL> You can see what appointment slots are available in advance and book a convenient slot before you leave the USA ( potentially before you book your travel ) . You can use the premium one day service to obtain your replacement passport on the same day as your interview . ( That assumes your replacement gets authorised quickly ; and although there is no reason to expect a simple renewal to take long , you may wish to have a few days of padding . Personally I would want to start this process on the first day of arrival . ) Alternatively -- if the renewal is taking too long -- you may apply for an Emergency Travel Document while in the UK to travel to the US . If you are a permanent US resident , it should be accepted for entry , although you may wish to confirm this with the US Department of Homeland Security . Scroll down to " passport exemptions " : This information is from TIMATIC , the computer system that the airlines use to decide whether they can let you on the plane . There is free access to it here : <URL>
While the city is only 15 minutes drive from the airport at times , given your narrow window , it would make more sense for your friend to come to the airport to meet you . Indeed , <URL> suggests that in busy periods , it can even take up to an hour , which you do n't want if you 're stressing about getting back to your flight ! Assuming your bags are checked through to your final destination , all you need to worry about then is yourself , carry-on and passport/visa situation . For your carry-on and self , remember that you 'll still need to go out through passport control , and get back in through customs , security and passport control . This is common enough for a few hours , I 've done it in several airports where I had a longish layover - I wanted to check out the city . Then your passport/visa - as long as you 're just visiting ( as you suggest ) then <URL> . So it should be a case of zipping through passport control , meeting your friend , and have some time to enjoy the airport , making sure to allow yourself enough time to get back through to your plane . Enjoy !
Yes , yes it does . If you click layers on Google Maps , and the Wikipedia layer , you 'll also get photos taken in the area . Several are from Panoramio , and are labelled " Zheng Cheng Gong " - <URL> . From <URL> : Koxinga ( Lord of the Imperial Surname ) is the customary Western spelling [ 8 ] of the popular appellation of Zheng Chenggong , So it would appear we 've found our match :) EDIT - UPDATE If you then look at the <URL> , it informs us that : Notable Modern cultural sites include : Da Ping Shan - The second tallest hill within the city limits , crowned with an enormous equestrian statue of Zheng Chenggong . So that would seem to add confirmation to my findings . EDIT - FURTHER FINDINGS I 've also found the following : <URL> , and links with information <URL> And the <URL> !
Which running event would that be ? I looked at several event calendars for Prague , and they all list only a marathon on May 11th . In any case , I would n't be concerned ; you 're in walking distance of lots of sights , and the metro should n't be affected by such events anyway .
The general answer is yes . It is safe to travel there . Nevertheless , Turkey being a very big country one can not lump everything together . The more detailed answer to this questions largely depends on where you go . The area around the Syrian border should be avoided . But that 's nothing really new . Some areas in the East and the South-East should be avoided too . This is n't new either . The Tunceli province has been a place of tension for years . But anyway that 's not a place a tourist would go to . Diyarbakır has also been the theater of recent tensions . But it has calmed down again . More recently , there have been demonstrations in the bigger cities , especially in Istanbul and Ankara . They have on some occasions been violent . There has been some vandalism from the side of the demonstrators and the police has used brute force ( water cannons and tear gas ) to dismantle the demonstrations . These demonstrations are pretty localized though . In Istanbul they are confined to the Taksim square . And there is strictly nothing in the other parts of the city . If you happen to be in this area , just pay attention to what is going on . But do n't be paranoid . A water cannon parked in one corner of the square and some policeman around it can be considered as " normal " these days . However , when they start closing the access to the square , it is time to go . But you do n't have to go very far . Crossing the Tarlabaşı boulevard is enough . On that side you are quiet and you will find a taxi or dolmuş to get away if necessary . So just avoid to get too close to protests and you are fine . There is no use in playing the war correspondent and getting too close to take pictures or videos . I have been to Istanbul and Bursa , some weeks ago and what I am telling here reflects my experience . I have seen the beginning of a demonstration in İstiklal Caddesi . At that moment I decided to go away and go back to the Hotel , which was near the Taksim square . The trip by taxi to the airport was much more dangerous ! It is also worth noting that there is a high <URL> in Turkey . This extends beyond the period you are interested in . In case you are interested , you can follow <URL> , an English speaking source for news about Turkey .
It 's likely to be about 10C at overnight . It might be a little cooler before dawn .
Visa-free transfers in China are very limited . In particular , your inbound flight into China must arrive at the same airport as you are the later departing from . So arriving in Tianjin and departing from Beijing will not be possible . The train trip in between does not make a difference . For the 72-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules at regulations at : <URL> For the 24-hour visa-free transit , you can find the rules here : <URL> - but they are even more restricted , requring you to stay in the international transfer part of the airport . Since you are taking a domestic train , these rules do not apply either .
Basically , it 's because the the fare rules for these flights explicitly disallow what you 're trying to do . Firstly , AT do n't have a specific fare published from SID to NSI . This is n't surprising , and does n't in itself normally stop you from booking a ticket between them as you can ( normally ) just book it as two separate fares for the two flights - all on the same ticket . They do have fares published between SID and CMN , and between CMN and NSI - so you can book those two sectors individually . The problem is that all of the fares that they have published between those cities include the following rule : An " End-on-end " ticket is what it 's called when you use two separate fares to create a single journey . As you can see , they are allowing end-on-end combinations ONLY with domestic fares . This means that although you can book these two segments individually , you ca n't book them as a part of a single ticket - as the rules explicitly disallow it when the connecting flight is international like yours is . Combinability rules like this are common on cheaper fares , but in this case they have the exact same rule on even the full-fare ( Y ) tickets , so it 's not just bumping the price up like you 'd sometimes see , but actually stopping you from doing it at all . The reason you can book SID-DLA is because they have a specific fare between those two cities ( TA0W0CVA SID to DLA ) , so you 're booking it as a single fare rather than attempting to combine two fares . This could be an oversight on their part ( eg , someone forgot to create a fare for SID-NSI ) , or it could be deliberate - nobody but the airline fare management people will know , and you 're not going to be able to get in touch with them ...
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
Yulong Mountain in Yunnan Province , Xiling Snow Mountain Ski Resort in Sichuan Province . Maybe some of the other mountains in those two provinces as well .
Clicking " show more " below the video you will read : The Performance of Russian guitarist Estas Tonne at the Buskers Festival Stadtspektakel in Landshut in September 2011 in the Old Town with " The Song of the Golden Dragon " . . The shoe store " Lipp " and the Commerzbank in the video give away the precise address : Altstadt 76 , Landshut , Germany . Here is a link to the website of the <URL> . It is also shown ( among others ) during the last seconds of the video .
The answer is yes , but you will have to speak a bit slower to most Brazilians , since they are not so used to listening to Portuguese with " Portuguese accent " . The other way around is easier because Portuguese people are used to listen to Brazilian accent in soap operas . In Angola , Mozambique , etc. differences also exist but the understanding might be a bit easier due to several cultural and historical reasons . There are also some minor differences in word spelling and meaning between country 's but if you learn Portuguese in any Portuguese speaking country it should be easy to overcome those differences . With the orthographic agreement recently settled these changes are fading away . There will still be differences in pronunciation and even specific words in each country , specially in colloquial language , but that 's the beauty of a language , it 's live and dynamic . There are actually very nice , lets call them , regional terms in each countrys : Portuguese / Angola : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> Portuguese / Brazil : <URL> ( a very nice article , unfortunatly in Portuguese , where some minor gramar explanations and some idiomatic expressions ) These are just 2 examples . But I am sure you can find them also for Mozambique , S , Tome and Princepe , Guine Bissau , Cape Verde , India ( Goa ) , Timor and Macau .
You are an EU national living in the UK and want to sponsor your cousin for a short visit . Your cousin is an Indian national who is working in Oman . From Paragraph 24 of the rules , your cousin will need an entry clearance . In order to be successful , he will need to clear all of the points listed in Paragraph 41 of the rules . See <URL> Your cousin should apply on-line as a GENERAL VISITOR . Near the end of the application , he will answer some questions about making a biometrics appointment at a facility in Oman . Once the appointment is booked , he will see a page of information on what to do next . If you are lawfully in the UK and have the financial capacity along with an acceptable level of credibility , you can participate in the application process by offering to help . Because cousins do not have the degree of relationship needed to qualify as family , your cousin will be treated as a FRIEND , and they will need a pretty clear understanding of why you want to do this . For example , do you normally sponsor your cousins in the same way ? What 's special about this particular point in time ? With this background information , your cousin should start by opening an account and going through the application rigmarole at <URL>
If your both legs are on the same ticket ( made in the same booking ) then they will definitely check in your luggage to the final destination . You will just change planes without going through immigration . If you have two separate bookings than it is not as obvious - contact the airline to double check .
Yes , they will be allowed entry , and they will become a permanent resident immediately upon entry as usual . They just wo n't be mailed the physical plastic green card . However , their immigrant visa , endorsed upon entry , serves as a green card for one year , so they will still be able to prove their permanent resident status without the plastic card in the short term .
While I 'm not in Tbilisi myself , my wife and children are at present in Georgia , having been in Tbilisi during the flood and the following week , although they now went to the summer house in the mountains . I have been speaking with them almost daily - so this is almost a first person account . Severe flooding did occur a couple of weeks ago in Tbilisi , resulting in both human and animal deaths and many injuries and physical losses . The long-term effect of it though is n't that great , from what I understand . The only long term " damage " as far as the tourism is concerned is the zoo . It was all but wiped out by the floods . It 's not open to the public at present . Other than that , the city continues operating just as it did before . There 's water , electricity and gas ; telephone network and internet are fine ; public transport runs fine ; all shops , restaurants , etc. are open ; museums are open according to their normal summer opening hours . Public paths along Kura are open , however parts of them are rather wet from rains that took place over the last week or so . Naturally , the aftermath is still visible in Mziuri park and the Heroes Square , as well as throughout the city , but all these places are open to the public . So , all in all , it 's still a great place to visit . I myself will be flying there at the end of July - but I have family there , so floods or no floods , I 'd have to go . If you 're interested in any specific venue or place , it should be easy to find that out .
end question
start question
Can we switch terminals at Heathrow ( LHR ) for shopping only ?
Short answer - no , not any more . ( It used to be possible pre-9 / 11 , but is n't allowed now ) To change between terminals airside at Heathrow , you need to go through Flight Connections . After the bit where they can issue boarding passes if you do n't have one , is the part where they check your boarding pass . No boarding pass for a different terminal , no access to the airside shuttle bus . Alternately , if you 're allowed to enter the UK , you could enter the UK in T5 , take the free train connection to T1/T2/T3 and walk the couple of minutes from there to T3 . However , you 'd then be stuck , as they would want to see a boarding pass before letting you into the security queue , and you wo n't have a T3 boarding pass , only a T5 one , so they wo n't let you in . . There is a workaround though if you want to do a ( significant ) amount of shopping . As described in <URL> at the end , Heathrow provides a <URL> . If you contact them in advance about it , they can apparently arrange for the item to be brought to another terminal so you can look at it and purchase . Apparently , if you have a lot of time , and it 's quiet , they might be able to arrange a transfer , but that part is n't guaranteed . That looks to be your only way . Well , other than booking a fully refundable ( check the T&amp;C closely ! ) ticket out of T3 , follow flight connections to T3 for that , shop , go online and cancel the ticket , ask customer services in T3 to " land " you , follow flight connections back to T5 on your onward boarding pass , then collapse in a heap on your return ... !
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
For travel in the US ( which I did in April ) you only need your passport as a form of ID . This is for the immigration process ( you 'll need a visa , most likely , in your passport ) , and for all internal flights as well . It is possible to fly internally without a passport as a foreigner , as an English friend did in April as well , but it was VERY difficult , as every security person expects you to have your passport available to travel with .
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
No , there is no need to pass through immigration control in this circumstance . Simply follow the purple signs to the new terminal . The inter-terminal bus system is before immigration control . See also : <URL> . If you are flying BA then you are in Terminal 5 for both flights , and there will be no need to use the buses .
I found two rental companies apparently located in San José , Costa Rica : <URL> ( US$ 55-80 per day , minimum 3 days ) <URL> ( US$ 90-145 per day ) Prices as of April 5 , 2012 .
Croatia joined the EU on the 1st of July 2013 but still did n't adopt the Euro as currency . I googled a bit and I found out an <URL> . From this site : You will find that you can pay for some items - accommodation , taxis , some restaurants - in Euros . Do note that this is entirely on an unofficial basis ; the Euro is NOT an official currency in Croatia and NO business/individual is required to accept them as payment . ( It is just the case that some businesses , particularly small/family-run ones are happy to receive Euros - this probably harks back to the days of Yugoslavia when people were happier " holding " Deutschmarks rather than the unstable Yugoslav Dinar . ) So , it seems that Euros are accepted in certain cases but you should be prepared to pay in Kuna as well .
Air India has bilateral partnerships with at least two programs : <URL> <URL> There may be others ; they have a number of <URL> , for example , and even though Air India is not listed as a partner on either 's website , Austrian and Swiss also participate in Lufthansa 's Miles &amp; More program . Note that for frequent flyer accrual it is quite possible that accrual into Flying Returns on partner flights is permitted whereas accrual into partner programs for Air India flights is not . Air India has <URL> , its entry having been repeatedly delayed while it got its house in order , but will not formally enter the alliance until June 2014 or so at the earliest .
You 're unlikely to have much issue with the carry-on limitations with just one or two small items held in your hands . A cell phone and pair of earphones in your pocket certainly does n't count toward carry-on baggage limits . The bigger issue is the need to secure items in the cabin for takeoff and landing . Many airlines ( particularly US airlines in my experience ) will instruct passengers to stow laptops at this time ( as they can become dangerous projectiles in case of an emergency ) and specifically state that a seatback pocket is not an acceptable place to store a laptop . Many new seat designs have done away with seatback pockets all together as well . Laptops must be stored under the seat in front of you or in the overhead bin . These are not places I would want to leave a bare laptop ( laptops will slide on the plane 's carpet ) . As such , I 'd highly recommend at least a small inexpensive <URL> to protect your MacBook . At security , customs , and immigration , one issue is just physically handling your items ; navigating an airport with a bare laptop in hand is somewhat inconvenient ( how would you hang on to it while you went to the bathroom for instance ? ) and makes it easy to accidentally lose something . Quickly handing over your ID and scanning your boarding pass is difficult to do one-handed , and carrying a tray of food while trying to hold your laptop in your armpit can quickly become precarious . Furthermore , security officials are trained to be suspicious of people who do not fit into the normal pattern of travelers , and someone who has no bag and chooses to carry a laptop in his hands is at least a little unusual . It 's not that you would n't be allowed to travel , but an immigration officer might ask you more questions . At a minimum , the items would need to come out of your pockets at airport security . Beyond that , there are some additional items I like to carry with me when I travel even if I am checking the bulk of my luggage . Medications , if you take any , should never be checked , as you would have a problem on your hands if your bags are delayed or lost . A change of underwear and a spare t-shirt are a nice backup in cast of lost luggage too , and I generally want basic toiletries for long flights . On a long flight , it 's nice to be able to take keys and such out of my pockets for a little more comfort . All those things go inside my bag . Finally , where 's the charger for your MacBook in all this ? In short , while this can work , I ca n't really understand why you want to do this . There 's a reason you do n't see people clutching laptops in airports ; a small bag or laptop case is the simplest way to carry and protect your items . Most travelers have realized this and so bring one along . How is not using a bag more convenient ?
Yes I have heard from authorities of Shremetyevo airport that this airport remain open in night time and seems very pleasant during night also and you can enjoy your stay there . But I have no experience staying there .
Well ... this is difficult to answer , because how many is ' common ' ? However , I 've stayed in hostels in Australia , New Zealand , all over Europe , Central and northern Asia , USA/Canada and South America , and I ca n't recall a time that I 've seen them charge EXTRA for female dorms - EXCEPT when there were fewer beds . Now , it 's fairly common to charge more for smaller dorms - fewer snorers , people to steal your stuff or whatever . It 's more common to sometimes put an excess on some rooms to make them ' special ' and include breakfast with just those rooms . I 've also seen it where single guys were n't allowed to stay in the mixed dorm room - only couples , which I 'd say was bordering on discrimination . This was in Philadelphia , US . But it was the same price as the all-male dorm room . I think , as @hippietrail commented , in most western countries this practise would be considered gender discrimination - charging people extra based on their gender , although I think a good lawyer could argue it 's charging for security . However , for whatever the reason , I can confirm that no , it 's not common at all , and if I saw a woman being charged extra for this , I 'd certainly be arguing discrimination . However , I 've not stayed in many hostels in SE Asia , Africa or the Middle East ( although I 've been to a few countries in these areas , for whatever reason I stayed in guesthouses or hotels ) , and perhaps in those cultures it may be different .
Google Maps has a pretty good knowledge of the London public transport . <URL> will show you several options , which will all have you arriving before 6:40 am on Saturday ( tomorrow -- although any Saturday ought to be roughly the same ) . The one that looks the most attractive to me is the last one , which is to take the 295 bus ( although 283 may be just as good ) to Hammersmith , then the Picadilly line to LHR . It includes only 6 minutes of walking . On the London Tube web site you can see the <URL> as well as <URL> . Whether a strike-caused outage would be posted early enough to help you make your travel plans , I have no idea . I suggest waking up a bit early and checking , just in case . Then at least you 'll have the option to call a taxi in time , if the worst should happen .
Depends -- it would be more helpful if you could provide the details of the specific cruise you 're interested in . But as a rule of thumb , cruise lines figure the more paying passengers the better . Local cruise companies thus sell packages originating from all major cities visited , and it 's also quite common to do ' one-way ' cruises where people cruise one way and fly back . Problem is , these are usually sold as packages with the return flight included , you may have trouble sorting out a simple one-way . Contact the cruise operator ( not a travel agent ) directly and ask . On the other hand , if it 's a ' non-local ' cruise company doing something like a one-off <URL> from Alaska to Asia , they may not have the infrastructure to handle passengers boarding from random ports along the way . This is more the exception than the rule .
The crucial point here is to fit 4-5 people , and their luggage , in a car comfortable enough when driving for long stretches . To this purpose any comfortable station wagon , or even a people carrier if you can manage operating it in narrow driving scenarios such as parking in city centres , will do . To help you choose , car renting websites often specify the comfort of a car in terms of the number of people and luggage they can fit . Regarding weather conditions keep in mind that local regulations might require you to fit your car with winter equipment - tyres or snow chains - which is mandatory during the months you will be travelling . <URL> , for example . There are a number of questions ( see <URL> for example ) on TSE detailing this , have a nice read .
Yes , most Icelandic people speak very good English , you will be fine . Their language is indeed called Icelandic , and is fascinating in regards to its history . From wikipedia : The oldest preserved texts in Icelandic were written around 1100AD . The majority of these texts are poems or laws , preserved orally for generations before being written down . The most famous of these , written in Iceland from the 12th century onward , are without doubt the Icelandic Sagas , the historical writings of Snorri Sturluson ; and eddaic poems . With regards to learning a few Icelandic phrases , as with anywhere , people appreciate non-native speakers making the effort . " Takk " for " Thanks " is an easy one for starters . Some of the pronunciation is nigh on impossible for English speakers who have n't been exposed to it before , so do n't think you 'll attain even a basic grasp without a lot of study ! Their <URL> scheme is charming , and you may also be interested in the <URL> and how people derive their <URL> . " Z " was removed from the alphabet in 1973 .
If both flights are on the same ticket , with the same airline , then you do n't need to worry about it . The airline will check your bags through to your final destination , and you wo n't need to carry them yourself . You can confirm this at check-in when you start your trip , but all should be fine .
This answer only deals with the US part . USDA regulations on Cut Flowers specifically exempts dried flowers : 7 CFR 319.74 Subpart -- Cut Flowers provides the following : restricts or prohibits importing fresh , cut flowers , but exempts dried , bleached , dyed , or chemically treated decorative plant materials from the definition of cut flowers Source : <URL> Dried plants are sometimes subject to restrictions , but only if they are listed explicitly : If a name is not listed in the reference table or the Index , that article is most likely merely subject to inspection -- that is , release it without a permit it if is free from plant pests . Source : <URL> Lavender is not listed , so I think it 's safe to assume that there are no restrictions on what you can bring back into the US with respect to agricultural regulations . As with all of these things , it 's always best to declare it though .
2016 update : all three major national operators offer similar plans . <URL> , <URL> ( formerly Life ) , <URL> ( formerly MTS , UMC ) offer 3G voice and data connectivity at just a couple of bucks per month . There are other 3G operators , however a traveler would normally prefer one of the three mentioned . SIM cards are everywhere and available freely . From the mentioned above three , Kyivstar and Vodafone are believed to be slightly " bigger " and offering better coverage outside of populated areas . Lifecell in turn is known as more addressing youth and believed to offer better mobile internet connectivity in densely populated areas . However I suppose all three are close in quality of service . All three tend to offer cheaper or free calls on home network . It is common that the number remains valid for a year , which might be interesting to those expecting recurring visits to Ukraine in future . Perhaps something new from the operators in 2016 is their low-cost offers for international calls . The operators offer attractive calls abroad and in roaming for specific directions . For example , <URL> for international calls to selected countries is cheaper than Skype-Out calls , with decent voice service quality . Base services are presumably so cheap that they can not go any lower ( imagine <URL> ? ) , so they started attracting users with auxiliary services .
As has been pointed out by several people in the comments , your question is similar to the question <URL> , and indeed that question does give some relevant advice - however there is a little bit more to it in this case . Priority Pass currently have 4 lounges available at LHR - A ServisAir lounge in each of terminals 1 and 3 , the No 1 Heathrow lounge in terminal 3 , and the Air Canada Arrivals Lounge in Terminal 3 . The first 3 of these lounges are AIRSIDE , and thus the " shopping " question above will give you your answer - you can not access them from terminal 5 . The last lounge - the Air Canada lounge - is LANDSIDE , and thus presuming you are able to enter the UK ( ie , you have a relevant visa and/or do not require a visa ) then at first it may appear that you could go through immigrations , and then catch the bus to terminal 3 to access this lounge . However , unfortunately , that 's not the case . The Air Canada lounge only allows access for Priority Pass customers who are arriving on a flight that arrives into terminal 3 . As you arrived into terminal 5 you will NOT be allowed access this lounge . So unfortunately , no , you will not be able to access any of the lounges in terminal 1 or 3 .
I actually do n't think that driving lessons would help you . The cheapest trick is just to just do it . Thousands and thousands of drivers cross either the tunnel connecting the UK and France or the different ferries , daily . In both directions it seems to work out just fine . They only need to temporarly <URL> . In some countries with neighboring countries driving on opposite sides ( e.g. UK/France , Suriname/French-Guyana ) there will be signs reminding you on what side to drive , at least on the primary roads driving away from the border . source : <URL> The trick is to drive carefully and just follow the traffic and you will be fine . Problems arise when you are alone . At least with me especially on secluded scottish roads , it happened more then once that I ended up on the right side of the road , but still , when with enough caution I was always in time to correct . I also do n't drink at all when I am driving in the UK , although the UK is n't as strict in the amount of alcohol allowed as in other parts of Europe ( 0.08 % vs 0.05 % -0.02 % ) . With respect to the steering wheel or the pedals , those are the same no matter where you drive . In the beginning you might end up switching gear in the door or starting the windscreen wipers when changing lanes , but that is only sort of funny . The main advice is : source : <URL>
end question
start question
Can you currently get from Turkey to Egypt by ferry ?
Well , it 's not yet a full answer , but it 's a start . The ferry leaves Mersin once a week . But ... as I write this ( October 16 , 2012 ) , after having spoken to Anrusstrans , the ferry has not run for the ' past month ' and will not run for ' at least another month ' . ( I might have an opportunity to try them again in April 2013 . Any updates in the meantime are most welcome . )
Well , it 's not yet a full answer , but it 's a start . The ferry leaves Mersin once a week . But ... as I write this ( October 16 , 2012 ) , after having spoken to Anrusstrans , the ferry has not run for the ' past month ' and will not run for ' at least another month ' . ( I might have an opportunity to try them again in April 2013 . Any updates in the meantime are most welcome . )
end question
start question
Hiking rucksack with a rollmat hanging out - will it survive as checked in luggage ?
That 's a bit risky , since the roll is only held there by pressure . A couple of good whacks to the side , exactly like the ones the bag will receive on the conveyor belts and in the loving arms of the baggage loaders , and it can be knocked out . There 's a simple trick for considerably increasing the odds of a rucksack and its attachments making it through in one piece : just pop the whole thing in a giant garbage bag , preferably a reasonably heavy-duty one . This also prevents straps , zippers etc from getting caught , and as a bonus makes theft from your bags harder as well . Some backpackers improvise by using the pack 's integrated rain cover , but this usually only covers half the bag , may get pulled off by accident , and is usually no good for securing attachments .
There 's a simple third option -- do n't change your booking . You 've booked it for a month , so it 's yours for a month , it 's not the host 's problem if you leave before the full month is up .
Do n't worry . Finding temporary unskilled jobs in Australia is easy , the economy is booming and Australians do n't want to do them so hostels , cafes , restaurants , ski resorts , farms etc rely quite heavily on cheap , seasonal backpacker/working holiday labor . As Mark says , the easiest thing is to simply ask around at your hostel after arrival , but also take a look at <URL> to get an idea of the type of jobs and wages on offer .
I could not find a centralised list of all community shelters in Quebec . However , I could list some organisations that manage shelters and list some of those along <URL> , from Mont-Tremblant to the reserve Mastigouche . I list them in the order West-East . For each shelter , I try to list the following : | [ name ] | [ capacity ] | [ price per night per person ] | [ location ( optional ) ] | [ access from previous shelter ] | [ opening period ] | Sepaq The <URL> manages many provincial parks ( called national parks ) and the Trans-Canada trail crosses them in multiple places . The Sepaq operates shelters all over Quebec in its parks of Fjord-du-Saguenay , Gaspésie , Grands-Jardins , Mont-Mégantic , Mont-Orford , Mont-Tremblant , Monts-Valin and Yamaska . in Mont-Tremblant national park | Lac-Ernie | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac Monroe Park center : ~ 13km | open May-March | | Lac-des-Sables | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-Ernie : 9.5 km | open May-March | | Le Lariou | 2 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-des-Sables : ~ 10km | open May-March | | Le Geai-Bleu | 4 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Le Lariou : ~ 5km , from La Pimbinia Park - entrance : few km | open May-March | This is an alternative way to link Mont-Tremblant and St-Donnat , the Trans-Canada trail follows the Intercentre trail ( see below ) . Intercentre The <URL> links Lac-Laurier and St-Donat , and is a part of the trans-Canada trail . | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 14 ' 10 " , W 74 ° 23 ' 55.2 " | <URL> ( north of Lac-Supérieur ) | open year-round | | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 15 ' 57.2 " , W 74 ° 21 ' 14.8 " | <URL> - open year-round | From the chemin Regimbald , it is possible to reach highway 329 and from there follow the chemin Wall to continue on the Mont-Ouareau trail . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) The <URL> manages two shelters , both along the Trans-Canada trail , one in the area of Mont-Ouareau : | <URL> | 12 people | 10-15 $ | near Lac Lemieux | <URL> | open year-round | The Trans-Canada trail is discontinued along the highway 125 , it starts farther on the Massif trail in the regional park of the Ouareau forest . Parc Régional de la Forêt Ouareau I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . They all appear on the <URL> | Pelletier | 8 people | 30,25 $ | near Lac à Pelletier - ~ 3km from hwy 125 , near Notre-Dame de la Merci | | Prud ' homme | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 2.5 km from Pelletier shelter | | La Loutre | 2 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Corbeau | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Toussaint | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 16.5 km from Prud ' homme shelter | | des Capucines | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 4km from Toussaint shelter | Then the trail continues without any shelter ( but some lean-to ) on the <URL> and the Swaggin trails . Parcs Régionaux Matawinie - Sentier National I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . | Swaggin | 20 people | 25 $ | the previous shelter on the trans-Canada trail is on the Massif trail , 38km away ( refuge des Capucines ) | | Lavigne | 8 people | 25 $ | <URL> | | Lac Boule | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac de la Boule - <URL> | | Bazinet | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac des Iles - <URL> | The trans-Canada trail continues on several successive trails ( Ours , Matawinie , Nymphes , Mistikush ) without any appareent shelter on the way ( see the <URL> ) . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) A second shelter managed by the FQMarche is at the end of Mistikush trail : | <URL> | 6 people | 10-15 $ | near Morin Creek , <URL> , <URL> | open in summer ( May 17 to Sep 1st ) | Then the Trans-Canada trail arrives in the <URL> , with no shelter open to single-person reservation . This list of shelters along the Trans-Canada trail in Quebec is definitely incomplete as the trail is particularly long ( 1100km ) but I hope to enrich it with time . SIA-IAT ( International Appalachian Trail ) The <URL> group manages a set of shelters , not along the trans-Canada trail but still worth noting . They publish <URL> . I do not list them as they are not along the Trans-Canada trail but along the Quebec section of the International Appalachian Trail .
Yes , for every problem with the police , you can insist to do it at the station . But I would n't choose this as first option automatically . Normally trivial things like showing your ID might extend to several hours ( with a bit of bad luck ) . Getting a car to get you to the next station , waiting there if something is more important , doing the full course of bureaucracy , ( maybe ) getting an additional questioning and a call to your hotel etc.etc . ( depending on the mood ) , paying a fee for the additional effort ( it 's not because they do n't like this behaviour , they have to collect it for certain things ) , and being released in front of the station again instead where they met you first ... If you insist on the station , make sure they know that you have everything necessary but do n't trust them , instead of being here illegally . Easier would be to ask for their ID first . They are obliged ( too ) to show it on request , and to show it long enough that you can read it carefully ( even if you do n't understand German , look at it ) . I did n't find a good image , <URL> has to do . On the backside , there is more information like the name etc. . Scammers usually show you something not withstanding closer inspection , so they do n't want you to look carefully . Additionally , if they are uniformed but without weapon clearly visible on the belt , it 's a fake ( happens often enough to mention it ) . If they refuse to show their ID and/or to take you to a station ( real refusing , not just a " is this really necessary " - thing first ) , call 133 and get some more authentic ones . If they show some authentic looking ID but you still have major doubts for some reason , call too and tell them the number of the ID ( together with location and what they 're doing ) to check it .
Yes , most luggage counters will hold your bags overnight or longer , eg . the one in Tokyo Station can hold them for up to 15 days . 410 yen/day for the first five days , 820 yen/day from the 6th day onward . Ask for the " Rail-Go Service " ( レール ・ ゴー ・ サービス ) ; the weird name is because you can also send bags to/from here via package delivery services like Takkyubin . Link in Japanese : <URL>
There is a guideline from the department of state when to replace one 's passport if it has been damaged . Take a look at <URL> to see if your friend will requirethis this . And from what you describe he does .
The kicker is the delay , once you pass the airlines reporting deadline , the chances for compensation drop to basically zero . Too easy for folks to start claiming all sorts of non-existant items . Personally I would have been persistent with calls or perhaps gone back to the airport to report the theft . At this point your best bet is to write a polite letter explaining the situation , include copies of the ticket , boarding passes and purchase receipt . You might get lucky . But I suppose at this point the two of you have learned the number one rule about baggage when flying ... put nothing of value in checked bags .
I 'm assuming that this is a domestic flight within India that you 're talking about . Most Indian airlines do not offer an online booking facility for student discount tickets . You either need to go to airline booking offices or get it booked through an authorised travel agent depending on the airline , details of which are available on airline websites . As far as I know , only the two full-service airlines remaining in India - Air India and Jet Airways - do student discounts on tickets and they are n't that deep discounts . You may just find that getting a ticket with a low-cost airline - which do n't do student discounts - could be cheaper . In case you are eligible for a student discount , as long as your student ID is valid , it does not matter when you graduate . Also , since this is a domestic flight you wo n't have to go through passport control anyway . Even if it was an international flight , student discount tickets are not marked in any way - it 's just priced differently - so you would n't have to explain to passport control why you have a student ticket . Besides , many students do internships so it 's a realistic scenario that a student can have a job too .
They will get wet , twice . Luggage are almost always transported in small chains of relatively flat carts pulled by a motor vehicle . Then , a conveyor belt loads them into the plane as works move each piece from the carts to the belt . As some comments say , the carts sometimes are covered , which I have seen but it was not complete coverage , so water will still reach a number of luggage items . As you can see this gives them plenty of opportunities to get wet , including while being loaded on the cart , while in the carts and while on the conveyor belt . The process is the same at arrival except in the reverse order . Very few suitcases are completely waterproof but how much water gets in varies . To ensure things like sensitive equipment stays dry , most people use pelican cases . A cardboard box will certainly allow water infiltration quickly , even more so than other materials , particularly because it is absorbent . Some airports even place luggage on the ground , either while waiting to be moved or for passengers to pick up themselves ( I 've had to do this several times in small airports ) . Plastic wrap is a good idea and the kind that wraps several times over it quite effective . There is no guarantee that it will absolutely stay dry or not be pierced but , even if it does , you will get much less water in than with a cardboard box . The other option which I use more often is to pack the contents in giant ziplock bags . Again , its not 100 % effective but works nearly every time .
Let me answer my own question . I just got back from the trip and I found out that motorbike rental shops are abundant in Philippines ( but usually not advertised online ) . The price is usually about 600PHP ( 12 USD ) for one day . Even in rural places where there are no renting businesses it is easy to arrange for a rental with locals . I rented 6 different motorbikes throughout the country and had no problem whatsoever . <URL>
TSA approved travel locks are a joke . TSA ( and anyone who cares ) has a master key which will open it . The locks are very light weight , and easy to break . So , in my opinion , a TSA-approved lock is good for exactly one thing : Slowing someone down who might try to get into your bag in your presence . That is to say , on a bus , or train , or in the airport . Once your bag is out of your possession , such a lock wo n't protect you from anyone except a theoretical honest thief who is willing to steal your items , but unwilling to break your lock .
<URL> covers this somewhat , saying you 'll want to check the details on your deodorant / other can . If it says it 's a flammable product , it may not be permitted in your checked luggage . If it 's not flammable , however , then it should be fine to travel with , provided the top is on . So to be clear - it 's the flammability that 's more of a concern here , rather than any explosions from pressure - most large passenger plane cargo holds are pressurized . In fact in larger jets , pressurization of the cargo hold is <URL> that might leak , expand , burst or be crushed on re-pressurization .
All biometric passports have serial numbers that change when issued . Per this notice from the Singaporean government , this is an ICAO requirement : <URL> And since virtually all passports are now biometric , even those countries ( like Singapore ) that did not previously change numbers do so now . Update : Here 's <URL> " Specifications for Machine Readable Passports ( MRPs ) and other TD3 Size MRTDs " direct from the <URL> : Field 05/I ( Mandatory ) Passport Number As given by the issuing State or organization to uniquely identify the document from all other MRTDs [ machine readable travel documents ] issued by the State or organization . " Uniquely identify the document " means that the number can not be reused for other documents . And of course it 's only a " recommendation " , because ICAO only sets standards and does not enforce them -- but if countries produce passports that do n't follow the rules , they 're not going to be accepted by other countries . In particular , <URL> . And a final nit : the standard above is technically for machine-readable passports , which is not quite the same thing as biometric passports , but the standard in question does document the rules of biometric passports , and all biometric passports are supposed to follow the rule above .
I 've tried to pull it off on two Ryanair flights recently and the answer is : yes , they allow it . No one bothered to check the dimensions of my laptop case , but they did ask to measure the large bag on both occasions . On the last flight the cabin was so full , some people were forced to surrender their hand luggage to be checked into the cargo hold , but my laptop bag was still safely ignored . I ca n't guarantee an overzealous employee somewhere wo n't bother checking the exact dimensions of the second bag , but it seems quite unlikely .
Good news - as a Canadian citizen , you 're a member of one of the few groups that do n't need visas for the US . From the <URL> : Note : ESTA is not required for citizens of Canada . On 12 January 2009 , the Department of Homeland Security ( DHS ) introduced ESTA , the Electronic System for Travel Authorization . This online system is part of the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and all nationals or citizens of VWP countries -- excluding Canada -- who plan to travel to the United States for 90 days or less for temporary business or pleasure under the VWP need to receive an electronic travel authorization prior to boarding a U.S.-bound airplane or cruise ship . So you 'll be fine travelling through the US on the way to Germany ! Enjoy your trip .
So , if I could pilot and rent/have a water plane , are there facilities in harbours to let me park ? Yes , lots of them in fact . For what you 're talking about the term is ' moor ' , and there are three kinds of moorings in the vernacular : dock , ramp , and beach . Docking is the most common , beach is the simplest but are hard to find . Landings with a ramp allow the craft to be towed on to land for transport or storage . Also , it 's more complex than simply mooring an aircraft , for any given water landing spot you need to consider what type of fuel can be purchased there ( auto or jet or 100 low-lead ) . There 's also practical considerations about the facilities at a water landing spot vis-a-vis the type of trip you are planning : you ca n't carry lots of stuff on board an <URL> , so there 's the availability of food and lodging to consider . This image shows the basic size of what you can expect to rent ... Source : Pilot Magazine , March 2015 issue , fair use You mentioned Vancouver , so you 'll need to consider which spot has a US or Canadian customs operation if you enter their air space . Finally , note that maybe a third to a half the water landings in that region ( BC and Washington State ) are not reachable by public road ( that 's part of the fun , right ? ) . So there 's a logistical factor in effecting a mid-holiday rendez-vous with your friends . Odds are you 'll be flying a two-seater so as the pilot , you will spend a lot of time in " " mode . Are boat spots compatible with water planes and therefore any harbour would be fine ? No , decidedly not . The whole sport is a den of snakes where regulations are concerned . The spot needs to clear regulatory hurdles ( e.g. , it needs 1k - 1.5 k feet for landing ) , and some boat owners are aggressive about the increased noise of landing and take off and insist upon segregation . Some spots may require more than a simple logbook endorsement . Natural lake spots are the simplest , coastal tide landing spots are the most complex ( like avoiding salt water in the cockpit ) . Some locales have a ' field director ' ( an unofficial guru ) who can give you specifics . Further research : I recommend ' Powered Sport Magazine ' and ' Light Aviation Magazine ' . The <URL> has a Facebook page , but for anything worthwhile you need to get behind paywalls . Good terms for Google research are ... Water Landing Directory SLSA aircraft LSA aircraft Adding ... For a cheaper alternative , consider Short Takeoff Landing ( STOL ) craft , the image below illustrates an STOL moored by the water in rough terrain . Two seaters with STOL capability are available . Source : Aviators Hot Line Magazine , May 2015 , fair use
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
On an aircraft like one you 're on , it 's interesting to realise that the cargo hold is actually pressurised , just like the cabin . ( The floor between the two is not a pressure bulkhead , so needs to be roughly the same or it could collapse from the pressure . However , as you 've observed , the temperature is often cold as while the cabin is warmed , the cargo hold usually is not . From a similar plane ( 767 ) and <URL> : Conditioned air is directed from the cabin , so the air tends to be a little cooler by the time it reaches the cargo areas , which are also less insulated than the cabin . Cargo temperatures vary in our fleet . The Boeing 767 maintains its baggage hold above 7 ˚C , but the bulk area ( where animals are carried ) can be heated above 18 ˚C . Controlled temperature cargo bins are also available when temperature-sensitive goods are being shipped . So your wine is unlikely to freeze if it only gets down to 7 degrees , but it 's worth noting that in some exceptional cases ( close to the outside , no insulation , extreme temperatures outside ) it may cause some freezing . Your best bet is to insulate it with some jackets or similar , like you 've suggested you will do . Odds are , it 'll be fine .
That 's a bit risky , since the roll is only held there by pressure . A couple of good whacks to the side , exactly like the ones the bag will receive on the conveyor belts and in the loving arms of the baggage loaders , and it can be knocked out . There 's a simple trick for considerably increasing the odds of a rucksack and its attachments making it through in one piece : just pop the whole thing in a giant garbage bag , preferably a reasonably heavy-duty one . This also prevents straps , zippers etc from getting caught , and as a bonus makes theft from your bags harder as well . Some backpackers improvise by using the pack 's integrated rain cover , but this usually only covers half the bag , may get pulled off by accident , and is usually no good for securing attachments .
end question
start question
Dual citizen living in the US : What can I do to avoid using the US passport when applying for a Chinese visa ?
China 's visa rules are rather simple in this matter , if you are applying for a visa in a country other than your citizenship , then you need to show proof that you are residing / traveling legally in that country . If you can not prove that you are in the USA legally using your Irish passport , then you have no choice but to apply with your US passport . While you could try the excuse that you are leaving on another trip and ca n't leave your US passport behind . But there is a good chance they will levy the USA fee , even though they are stamping the visa in your Irish passport .
Yes , Switzerland is part of the Schengen area , so you will have no trouble traveling there , provided you remain within <URL> . You will still see border checkpoints for commercial traffic , as Switzerland is not part of the EEA , but you should not be affected .
The answer is yes you can apply in Cyprus for the US visa but if you 're not a permanent or long term resident of Cyprus you should be prepared to reasonably prove why you could n't go back to Russia to get the visa . The site for information and applications for US Visa processing has changed to <URL> and while Cyprus section does n't contain a specific FAQ the section for <URL> addresses this very question : Q. 1 If I am a citizen of another country , can I apply for a nonimmigrant visa in Russia ? Any person who is legally present in Russia may apply for a visa in Russia . However , applicants are generally advised to apply in their country of nationality or residence . It is generally easiest to demonstrate your strong ties abroad in the country where you permanently reside . So yes you can apply but the residency question is likely come up .
Despite their apparent use of the English language , Canada has the most confusing immigration/border information web site I have ever seen . Fortunately , I have a little experience with this ( having had to be deemed rehabilitated myself , and having friends who had to go through the rehabilitation process ) and the actual processes are quite a bit simpler than the web site makes out . If it 's been less than five years since your probation/parole ended , you 're considered inadmissible to Canada , and ca n't apply for rehabilitation . The temporary resident permit , however , overrides this inadmissibility , usually for a single entry . It can be granted by a consulate , but for Americans who receive one it 's almost always issued at the border , and the Americans involved are usually quite surprised that their old criminal record makes them inadmissible . The guidance states that in order to receive a temporary resident permit , " your need to enter or stay in Canada must outweigh the health or safety risks to Canadian society , as determined by an immigration or a border services officer . " This gives the CBSA officer fairly wide latitude in determining whether to give you one . Your ability to articulate and represent yourself well will be quite helpful here . When you 're issued a temporary resident permit at the border , you will be told how long you are allowed to remain in Canada , and you will be instructed that you must check in with CBSA at the point of departure . Since Canada does not have exit immigration , you have to go out of your way a bit to visit the Canadian port of entry at your border crossing when you leave and have someone there verify your exit from Canada . You will be instructed that if you do n't do this before the end of your allowed stay in Canada on the temporary resident permit , an arrest warrant will be issued for you . You can , if you wish , apply for the temporary resident visa from a consulate . Note that this is the same type of visa that all non-immigrant Canadian visitors receive for tourism , business , transit , or study . But if you have n't been through the rehabilitation process , you are likely to be refused without a very compelling reason for visiting . Going on a cruise probably wo n't qualify . You can also just take your chances and show up at the border . It 's possible your criminal history wo n't be checked and you 'll pass through without a hitch . If you 're on a US passport , passport card or enhanced driver license , it might not even be scanned . But if you 're asked about criminal history , you should go ahead and disclose it , since they can access it anyway , and lying will only make the situation worse . Since you 're merely transiting , you may be allowed to go on with a temporary resident permit . In the worst case , you would be detained and removed back to the US ( which is where you were going anyway ) .
I 've had a look at a few US based RV hire websites , and they all seem to say the same thing . That is , for normal sized RVs you need to be over 21 , you need to have held your license for over a year , and for Europeans you need an International Driving Permit if your license is n't in English ( which I guess your Belgian one wo n't be ) . Very large RVs , and those with air brakes seem to be different though . I did see a few discussions suggesting that you may wish to take your C1 course ( the license class needed to drive large RVs in Europe ) . The main reason for that is to ensure you 're happy and safe driving a large vehicle . It 'll also have the bonus that if you like RVing , you can continue doing it when you get home ! One slight wrinkle is that licensing in the US is handled state by state , and in Canada province by province too . The best advice seems to be to ring up the hire car company you 're planning to use , and ask them . It 's not impossible that their insurance will have stricter requirements than the legal minimum , so that may be the limiting factor anyway . Most of the big companies should be used to visiting Europeans , so ask them and see !
To answer your questions : Can I leave with my Canadian passport US law says you must leave the US " bearing " a US passport , but there is no consequence for breaking this rule . The US does n't have exit checks , so there is no practical difference what you " leave with " . and let my mother bring my U.S passport to me once it finishes processing and enter with it when I come back to the U.S ? Yes and also will the immigration know that my US passport is still processing when I present my Canadian passport when I leave ? ( that is if I do n't receive my passport by the time of my flight ) hoping to get answers on this . . As mentioned above , the US has no exit checks . So you do not " present " anything to " immigration " when you leave the US .
According to <URL> you can not extend your stay for more then 30 days and even then in the case of emergency . The good news is that noone yet canceled availability of B1/B2 visas for the citizens of VWP countries . So if you obtain a <URL> , which you should n't have a problem doing you can enter the US for the period of 6 months and hike one of the trails before you have to leave the country .
I 'm an American living in Chile , and have rented a car here many times . They ask for ID ( your US passport if you are a tourist ) , your drivers license , and a major credit card . You can rent a manual transmission car if you want . There is no test , or anything . They assume you can drive one , since most people outside the U.S. can . However , automatics are also available ( and are common ) at most rental companies .
As of now , there 's no cash back service in the UAE . There are talks about this every now and then in the GCC region , but so far it 's not implemented .
What kind of passport do I need ? See the <URL> . ( The VWP applies to German citizens among others . ) It says this about biometric passports : October 26 , 2006 -- Each Visa Waiver Program passport issued on or after this date must be an electronic passport with a digital chip containing biometric information about the passport owner . My passport does n't contain fingerprints ( to my knowledge ) , but that was n't a problem ( 2011 ) . What happens is they take your fingerprints &amp; photograph when entering the country . ( If the passport does contain your fingerprint data already , I 'm not sure if they 'd just read that or take the fingerprints again . ) So yes , your friend should be fine . To be more precise , the passport only needs to be electronic &amp; biometric if it was issued on or after October 26 , 2006 . ( Except for citizens of Czech Republic , Estonia , Slovakia , Hungary , Latvia , Lithuania , Republic of Malta , South Korea , and Greece who always need an electronic passport . ) In any case it needs to be machine readable ( i.e. contain two lines of text with numbers and chevrons ( < < < ) at the bottom ) . How long does the passport have to be valid ? To answer your updated question : And how long has the passport to be valid ? Is it okay if it expires on the day after his return date ? For citizens of Germany ( and most other ESTA-eligible countries ) , yes , this is okay ; no extra validity is required . The passport only needs to be valid for the duration of the visit . A document entitled <URL> from a <URL> ( found through <URL> ) has this to say : Visitors traveling to the United States are required to be in possession of passports that are valid for six months beyond the period of their intended stay in the United States . Citizens of the countries listed below are exempt the six-month rule and need only have a passport valid for their intended period of stay . Germany is on the ( long ) list of counties that follows . Finally , tell your friend to just go ahead with the ESTA application already ( unless the trip is a very long time away ; the <URL> for multiple trips over a period of two years ) . As <URL> : Have you signed up for the ESTA program yet ... if not you need to do it right away . Getting your Esta clearance is another confirmation of your passport being fine .
You could try talking to the Pakistani Embassy to find out if presenting a British passport at the same time as your Turkish one might count as " having a British visa " . It might depend on the exact legal definition . Getting a UK visa when you are already a UK citizen is going to problematic , even if it is possible , and may make someone suspicious of why you are doing it . You could also try to obtain a Schengen or US visa with your Turkish passport , both of which should be possible . However the point of the exercise seems to be to avoid getting a Pakistani visa in advance - but to do it you have to apply for another visa ( in advance ) . Unless there is a really good reason it would seem to be simpler to just apply for a visa from Pakistan
China has lifted most of the restrictions on trade in Chinese currency , so it has been possible to ( legally ) obtain renminbi outside China for a few years . When entering and leaving China , you are allowed to bring 20,000 CNY in local currency ( appr . 3,200 USD ) and 5,000 USD or equivalent in foreign currency ( source : <URL> ) . Assuming that you are in the United States , I ca n't tell if you are actually able to obtain Chinese currency there . Here in Germany , most currency exchange offices sell renminbi , but I would expect the exchange rates to be better in China . If you really have to exchange cash , check a site like xe.com for the " real " exchange rate and find a Chinese office , where the offered exchange rate is not much worse . My experience is that the best deal is usually to withdraw cash from a local ATM if you need paper money .
If you go to the website of the <URL> , you can find ( although a bit hidden ) a page where they state that the consular department started since 8 . January 2013 to process digital visa applications coming from <URL> . So if you go to that site you should be able to get your Visa Otherwise , there are agencies like <URL> and <URL> .
ECR is not something the US immigration is concerned with . It is only a formality for India ; and it only applies if you are traveling for work and even then , to a limited set of countries which does not include the US . Here is the official reference , from the <URL> ( I have highlighted the relevant parts ) : Emigration Act , 1983 provides that no citizen of India shall migrate unless he obtains emigration clearance from Protector of Emigrants . Similarly , it has been recognized that certain countries ( currently 17 ) do not have strict laws regulating the entry and employment of foreign nationals . They also do not provide avenues for grievance redressal . Thus they have been categorized as Emigration Check Required ( ECR ) countries . Hence , all persons , having ECR endorsed passports and going to any of the 17 ECR countries for taking up employment require emigration clearance . However , ECR passport holders going to any ECR country for purposes other than employment do not require emigration clearance . No specific mention of ECNR is made on the passports and the ones not endorsed as ECR , automatically belong to ECNR category . If you were to a take any GCC airline , you would be a transit passenger and ECR will not apply . To put it bluntly ; if you are able to exit the country , and you have a valid visa for the US - you should have no issues during your travel and on entry that have to do with your ECR .
For travel in the US ( which I did in April ) you only need your passport as a form of ID . This is for the immigration process ( you 'll need a visa , most likely , in your passport ) , and for all internal flights as well . It is possible to fly internally without a passport as a foreigner , as an English friend did in April as well , but it was VERY difficult , as every security person expects you to have your passport available to travel with .
Always , ALWAYS get a metered taxi . If the taxi driver says no meter , get a different one . Meters almost always run cheaper than the flat rate taxis . Also , know where you are going . I usually have my iPhone with GPS so I can watch where we are going in case the diver decides to circle the block a few times . Getting to know the major street names is also good advice . 15 minutes with a map and a marker and you can save yourself a ton of money . EDIT : You can ask the desk person at your hotel or hostel which cabs are reliable and trustworthy . EDIT 2 : Also , just a personal comment here . I 'm an expat . I 've been living in Taiwan for about 4 years now . I speak Mandarin reasonably well and can even yell some stuff in Taiwanese when the occasion calls for it . Yet , I still get scammed sometimes . Over a long enough timeline , it will happen ... but the goal is to mitigate the amount of times it happens and how much they get from you .
For instance , flying from Europe into Latin America can imply transiting through an US airport . What are your experiences with these kind of connections ? I had a connection at Miami Int ' l Airport last spring while en route from London to San José ( Costa Rica ) , and based on that experience , I 'd guesstimate that 2-3 hours is good to have . ( Myself I had 5 + hours waiting time , so this was n't an issue for me . ) I do n't know if this is true for US airports in general , but in Miami there was no transit/connections area ( unlike in most airports I 've known ) . So I had to queue , in the non US-residents line , for passport control just like passengers whose final destination was in the US ; in my case that took almost an hour . ( The passport check itself -- including getting a photograph + fingerprints taken -- was quick , less than 5 mins . ) Afterwards I made my way to the departure gates again , passing thru security , which took some time too . ( There happened to be no significant queues there , but your mileage may vary . ) ( Later I had a connection in Lima , Peru , which was a way smoother experience than Miami . This , of course , on top of the fact that you need visa or visa waiver ( ESTA ) just to change planes in the US ... )
Give them your Canadian passport . From the US point of view , whichever one you travel on is the one you 'll be using and therefore , your citizenship . Example : I have New Zealand and South African , and travelled through the US on my New Zealand . Never need to mention the South African one - there 's never a question about it , apart from some forms asking your place of birth . You provide the passport to the airline for this trip - they 'll ask again . You could have a new NZ passport by now , or a different citizenship , so they 're always going to ask again .
Legally , probably . Sounds iffy , but that 's the state of the law at present - it 's evolving and is ' iffy ' . A US Appeals Court has determined <URL> , and that : " It is clearly established in this circuit that police officers can not , consistently with the Constitution , prosecute citizens for violating wiretapping laws when they peacefully record a police officer performing his or her official duties in a public area , " the appeals court said . The <URL> and states that : When in public spaces where you are lawfully present you have the right to photograph anything that is in plain view . That includes pictures of federal buildings , transportation facilities , and police . Such photography is a form of public oversight over the government and is important in a free society . and in regards to your camera/phone : Police officers may not confiscate or demand to view your digital photographs or video without a warrant . The Supreme Court has ruled that police may not search your cell phone when they arrest you , unless they get a warrant . Although the court did not specifically rule on whether law enforcement may search other electronic devices such as a standalone camera , the ACLU believes that the constitution broadly prevents warrantless searches of your digital data . The Huffington Post has an article - <URL> which confirms that it 's legal in all 50 states : " There 's no law anywhere in the United States that prohibits people from recording the police on the street , in a park , or any other place where the public is generally allowed , " Osterreicher said . However , conflicting state laws might still find you in hot water - they might go after you with another sneaky rule , for example , from the same article , according to Massachusetts law , citizens are permitted to record police officers in public , but only if the police have been informed that a recording is taking place . You 're more likely to run into problems if your recording interferes with police business , or if you 're being a nuisance . So if in doubt - ask the officers that you 're filming first , and avoid the complications of offense , arrest and trial ( if not worse ) if possible .
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
end question
start question
Has Saudi Arabia already started issuing tourist visas in 2016 , or when do they intend to begin ?
<URL> , which is a nationwide vision of the future of Saudi Arabia mainly about finding other sources of income beside oil , has tourism as one of the items . It 's coming for sure but when , no one knows yet . I have spent some time trying to get an expected date for this , with no luck . All the official sources just list it as one of the items . Implementation of the vision items are mandatory , some of these items will be sooner than the rest , tourism is not listed as one of those to come soon . So , as of now , the only date that we can be sure of is the 1st of Jan , 2030 , which is the date in which all vision items must be implemented . Anyway , many steps have been taken lately that indicate that this is coming sooner than 2030 , one of them is removing all authorities from the religious police , which is in my opinion a very important step and the thing that was holding back this idea since the beginning . Saudi people in general are welcoming people , they travel a lot and they would love to see people come and visit their country . Another step is the start of implementing a program similar to the " Green Card " program , the current permanent residents started to get a new card called " Resident ID " valid for 5 years , the old " Iqama " card which is valid for one year is no longer issued . All these small steps are in my opinion leading to making Saudi Arabia an open country . IMO , another Dubai to be born as of 2030 .
To request a duplicate copy of your tourist card ( " Tarjeta Unica Migratoria " or sometimes " Tarjeta de Turismo " ) , you 'll need to visit the extranjeria office . <URL> Note that they are open from 8 AM until 2 PM . Also , make sure you bring a pen with you . To get there via Metro , take the red line to Santa Lucía and exit Avda . Bernardo O'Higgins Súr . Walk west to San Fransisco and then go south 3 blocks to Eleuterio Ramirez . The building will be on your right . Once you arrive , go to the table next to the entrance and pick up 2 forms : Replacement tourist card ( looks the same as the one you were issued when you arrived in the country ) . Note that it has 3 carbon copies . A full-size form to request the replacement ( I forget exactly what it 's called , but it 's the only other form on the table that mentions a tourist card ) . <URL> Fill out the forms ( you did remember to bring a pen , right ? ) , and then walk straight to cubicle 10 . There is no signage ; you 're just supposed to know that this is where you go to replace your tourist card . There may be an informal line in front of this cubicle ; be prepared to do a little negotiation . Also note that the PDI agent who processes your forms will probably only know Spanish . Important : You do not need to take a number * , and you do not need to visit the cashier ( " caja " ) ** . There is no fee to replace your tourist card . The whole process should take about 30 minutes . * Source : four hours of my life that I will never get back . ** Source : another 30 minutes of my life that I also will never get back .
The purpose of a transit visa is ... to transit through a country on the way to another destination . In some cases , a transit visa is simply a regular visa with a different name based on the purpose of the journey . When there is a distinction between a transit visa and a regular visitor 's visa , there might be several differences : Nationals of some countries might face extra scrutiny/restrictions ( e.g. in the Schengen area most people can transit through an airport without a visa but some do need one even in this case ) . The transit visa is a way to implement such a policy . Holders of transit visas might be unable to leave the airport and actually enter the country . The transit visa is a way to enforce this restriction ( e.g. " airport transit visa " in the Schengen area ) . A transit visa might be cheaper than a regular visitor 's visa ( e.g. " Direct airside transit visa " in the UK , transit visas are even completely free of charge in Canada ) , possibly to make transiting through the country more attractive and increase the local airports/airlines ' turnover or in acknowledgment of the fact that such a visa is generally less useful . In theory , I guess that someone landing without a transit visa where required could be refused entry and forced to return to their point of origin , be detained until they get their connecting flight or , if none of this is possible for one reason or another , face deportation . However , the rules are designed to make sure that it does n't happen in the first place . Airlines are bound by international agreements to take back people who are refused entry and might face additional fines when it happens , depending on local law . This provides them with strong incentives to check if passengers fulfill any relevant visa obligation before boarding . Note that in many cases , someone making it to a state 's territory has the right to apply for asylum , even if they got there illegally or do n't have a visa to enter the country . They could be detained and ultimately deported if their application is unsuccessful but ( in principle ) not immediately returned to their point of origin . Requiring transit visas for citizens of high-risk countries is one way potential destination countries make sure asylum seekers do n't even get that far and limit the number of requests .
In Europe , the question is covered by <URL> . Annex I , section 5.3 reads Baggage reconciliation Each item of hold baggage shall be identified as accompanied or unaccompanied . Unaccompanied hold baggage shall not be transported , unless that baggage has been either separated due to factors beyond the passenger 's control or subjected to appropriate security controls .
It 's not clear if they " tend to " , but its clear that sometimes they will , as evidenced by your experience . In general , immigration officals tend not to waste time doing more than finding the space they need before stamping/applying stickers etc. . Sometimes you can ask for a stamp or visa in a particular place , but a request is all that is .
No , driving for women in Saudi Arabia is not allowed regardless of the nationality . What bothers me is , there is no clear rule in Saudi regarding driving for women , it is just not allowed ! someone came up with this idea years ago and this idea still rules ! that 's why the police gets confused when they have a case about this , they do not know what to do ! anyway things are heading to the right direction and hopefully soon this non-sense will stop and everyone can drive . FYI , women who live in small villages in the desert do drive !
I travelled with Qantas from and returning to South Africa using South African passports with my wife and children , and the unabridged birth certificates , as well as the marriage certificate reflecting my wife 's change of name were required at various points , including check in at both ends , and immigration on return to South Africa . To answer my own question , certified copies were accepted at all stages without any issues .
A BitCoin Visa debit is a Visa debit card , and will <URL> as one where <URL> are accepted . Where can I use my card ? ( BitPay ) You can use your BitPay Prepaid Visa ® card at any online or brick and mortar merchant that accepts Visa ® Debit cards . Where can I use my <URL> Debit Card ? At any merchant that accepts VISA . The Xapo Card works just like any other debit card , but instead of drawing funds from your bank account , it debits purchases directly in bitcoin from your Xapo main wallet . You can use the card for online purchases , to shop at your local store , or at ATMs . Where can I use my debit card ? ( Wagecan ) Almost everywhere ! Any retail , merchant , point-of-sale terminals and ATMs , as long as you see ' Card Issuer Accepted ' , you can use it . Note that not all companies will ship their cards to India , BitPay <URL> , Xapo <URL> and CryptoPay <URL> . <URL> seems to ship worldwide . According to this <URL> , BitCoin is not yet regulated in India , but it is n't illegal . As you 'd expect , adoption rates are higher in urban centres ( Mumbai , Delhi , Pune , Bengaluru , Hyderabad , Kolkata , and Chennai ) , but <URL> still seems <URL> . This <URL> and particularly this <URL> ( both July 2016 ) discuss the state of BitCoin in India .
Visas for many many years were placed in your passport using a rubber stamp , same as most entry and exit stamps are done today . And there are still countries that use rubber stamps for visas today . Hence the slang for getting visas evolved to being " stamped " and the visa itself was termed a " visa stamp " . While modern visas have evolved to stickers with high security features , the old slang remains in common usage all around the world . Perhaps with time as all us old fogies , who remember visas being stamped in our passports , pass on to that great bike tour in the sky , travelers will start using " stickered " for getting their visas or maybe " stored " as epassports evolve
First of all , it does n't matter where you 're flying from . What really matter is what airline you are flying with , so the short answer is : it depends . Some airlines , in an attempt to fight frauds , may ask you to show the card and if you fail to do so they CAN refuse to embark you . I once flew Royal Jordanian from Milano Malpensa to Amman and I was asked to show the credit card . Since I paid that flight with my father credit card , I did n't have it with me . They refused to embark me and I had to call home and make my father fax a self-certfication signed by him along with a copy of the credit card used to book the flight . Another time I was leaving from Amsterdam to Atlanta flying Delta and I was asked the same . That time I had my credit card with me and I pass the control flawlessly . Always read the conditions very carefully . It 's always stated somewhere if they may ask you to show the card or not . If unsure , write an email or call them . Here some examples : <URL> [ click on " What happens if I do n't comply with the credit card verification requirements ? " ] If the booker does not bring his or her card used for the booking at check-in for verification , then passengers on the booking will not be allowed to check in and will be asked to purchase a new ticket using a new credit/debit card . However , the ticket price will remain the same . A refund will then be manually processed for the earlier purchased ticket . <URL> On the Enter billing information page where the credit card details are entered , if the " Cardholder name " can be typed in , you would be able to pay for the booking even if you are not travelling . If the " Cardholder name " appears in a drop-down menu and can not be changed , you would unfortunately not be able to pay for the booking unless you are travelling . In some countries , for security reasons , the holder of the credit card used to book a ticket or group of tickets must be one of the travellers on that itinerary , and will be required to show the actual credit card at the airport check-in counter prior to receiving boarding passes . Skywards members may make a redemption booking for friends and family , and pay for the applicable taxes online with their own credit cards , if the country of departure offers credit card payment . Business Rewards administrators may also pay for their organizations members bookings by credit card , if the country of departure offers credit card payment . <URL> [ click on the credit card link ] To safeguard against credit/debit card fraud , the purchaser may have to show us the credit/debit card along with a valid photo ID . The time varies based on the billing address of the credit/debit card or the country of travel . If the purchaser is not traveling , they can show us their credit/debit card and ID at an airport ticket counter or another ticket office location , whichever is most convenient . <URL> Due to increased credit card fraud problems , Air France does not accept third party payments ( the credit card holder not being the passenger or part of the group traveling together ) . Exception : We allow payments for family members with the same surname . Please make sure the family member you book for brings the personal identifier you specified during booking to check in at the airport or to Customs and Immigration if required ( this applies to e-tickets only ) . <URL> If you have booked directly with British Airways , either through ba.com or a British Airways Telephone Sales office , and you paid with your debit / credit card you must present that debit / credit card at check-in . This is to assist the check-in process and to provide debit / credit card verification .
As of 2015 a regular NY driver 's license is not compliant with the REAL ID Act . A NY EDL is compliant . NYS <URL> until October 10 , 2016 for using regular driver 's licenses to board flights . New York State has been granted an extension to the REAL ID Act through October 10 , 2016 . What does that mean ? New Yorkers can continue to use their current state-issued driver license or ID card to board a domestic flight until DHS announces otherwise . The DHS 's <URL> says that the REAL ID Act will be enforced for boarding aircraft " no sooner than 2016 " , pending a review : Phase 4 : Boarding federally regulated commercial aircraft . A driver 's license or identification card from a noncompliant state may only be used in conjunction with an acceptable second form of ID for boarding federally regulated commercial aircraft . ... Before a date for Phase 4 is set , DHS will conduct an evaluation to inform a fair and achievable timeline . The date for implementing Phase 4 will be set after the evaluation has been complete ; this phase will occur no sooner than 2016 . <URL> is also very thorough .
There are no such temples in Saudi Arabia - source : 26 + years of living there . There are way more Christians in Saudi Arabia than Buddhists - but there are no churches in Saudi Arabia either . It is enshrined in the law - which states that all people are free to practice their religion in private only . Public houses of worship for other religions are not allowed . The Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice - known by their Arabic : مطوعين , enforces this prohibition .
You will need to show visa documentation to board the flight to Canada . Assuming the rest of your family is traveling on your Pakistani passports and if your Iqama status is noted in those passports , the airline may wish to see his Pakistani passport as well at check-in to make sure he is documented to leave . But they should accept his US passport as proof of permission to enter Canada . The question would be if Saudi Arabia requires proof of travel upon your return . This happened to us in Africa , as my daughter used her second passport to avoid visa issues , but then was hassled since her exit visa from the previously visited country was not in the passport she presented to enter the next country .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
To visit a fair falls <URL> , if it is part of your job , when being sent over by a foreign company . Specially if you want to do negotiations or even sign contracts . So you would need a business visa . If the fair you are visiting is an industrial fair such as for machinery or trade , you will need a business visa . However , there is conflicting information for this . <URL> claims that as long as your trip fits into the time needed for a tourist visa , you can get one no matter what the purpose of your trip is . I would recommend contacting your local Russian embassy or consulate and simply ask them .
Great question ! As it has been already mentioned in the comments . There is no such thing as a " European " protocol . Look at kissing . In the Netherlands people tend to kiss three times . In Belgium it is one kiss on greeting . In Sweden hugging is the way to go , when meeting people . Kissing is considered more intimate . In France people kiss either 2 or 4 times . However , even since the custom is three kisses in the Netherlands there are still quite some who really do n't like the kissing and always approach with a firm hand . You indicated that you do the same , which I think is the best thing you can do . Personally I do kiss on the cheek as a greeting , but not always . It is a subtle nuance hard to explain . If you are okay with handshakes you should n't worry . First people are in general quite considerate and will understand that with your different background you ca n't be expected to know the greeting standards . I have known people who just used the custom from their background , being either a small bow or a greeting with the hands put together and a subtle head down . It is the gesture that counts . People meeting you will probably appreciate you and your cultural background and will like the gesture . I am not saying that everybody will accept it , but those that do n't will have more issues , so it is not worth being bothered about them .
As you 've probably discovered the Wellcome Trust Genome Campus in very much Cambridgeshire not Cambridge itself . In fact , it 's about a third of the way to Stansted ! Cambridge airport is small , so your time from plane to kerb will be very quick . Stansted , not so much ... By taxi , it 's about 12 miles from Cambridge airport to Hinxton . If you 've pre-booked a minicab , it should take about 25 minutes . A metered local taxi would be about # 30 , but you can probably negotiate a lower fare if you pre-book a minicab . I 'm not sure there are taxis waiting at the airport normally , as it 's small , so you might need to book anyway . By bus from Cambridge airport , you 'd need to get a bus into town ( 11 or 77 ) , then either a Citi 7 to nearby , or the Park and Ride bus to the Babraham Road Park-and-Ride then the 7A to Hinxton . Plan for about 1.5-2 hours From Stansted , in a taxi it 'll only be about 30 minutes , as it 's a motorway almost the whole way . Downside is it 's 20 miles , with an airport pickup surcharge , so it 'll be quite a bit more money than Cambridge . My hunch is about # 45 for a local taxi , less if you pre-book a minicab and negotiate something . Public transport from Stansted to Hinxton is n't great though . You can ask Google Maps , but the fact that it often suggests taking a train from Stansted to London then train London to Cambridge then bus then walk should give you some idea ... There does n't look to be any local buses covering the route , so you 're pretty much stuck with train or long distance coach to Cambridge ( passing Hinxton on the motorway without stopping ) , then basically the same local buses as you 'd have got from Cambridge airport . If it were me , and the flight costs were about the same , I 'd suggest flying to Cambridge , bus into town , enjoy a little bit of time in the city centre , then taxi out to Hinxton . Likely to be much more enjoyable than via Stansted , and given the queues you often encounter at Stansted it may even be quicker even with an hour 's sightseeing / eating / drinking in Cambridge !
I think that your problem here would be that you ca n't provide proof of income ( to show you 'd be able to support yourself for a year ) without tipping them off that you would be working there but not paying income tax ( since your company is not located in Laos and therefore your income taxes would go back to France rather than stay in Laos ) . Therefore , it seems like your best bet to do this legally would be to ask your employer to " transfer " you to a local Laos address so that you will be considered as " working in Laos " . Then you can also get the 1-year business visa that your girlfriend got . If that is not possible , then the only option you have is to leave the country every month and try to get a new visa by coming back . As you said , this will work for at least the first three months . After that , it may still be possible ( some border patrol wo n't care as long as you pay the fee ) , but it is also possible they will say " sorry , you used up all your renewals " - so if you go this route , you need to have a Plan B to either go back to France or stay in a neighboring country or something . If you have been dating your girlfriend for a long time ( more than 1-2 years ) AND you already live together , then you may be able to get a year long visa by contacting the embassy , explaining that you have this relation and already live together , and see what they can do for it . I have read elsewhere that some people can get a 1-year visa to stay with their spouse , so it may be possible to get one for a long-term relationship as well . You would probably need to call someone and talk to them about it though . Whatever you do , do n't try to just stay in Laos with an expired visa - it 's not worth the risk IMO .
Your embassy has already told you that your children have to be added to your visa , and the <URL> : Children born outside Australia to permanent resident parents will need to apply for and be granted a permanent visa to be able to enter and remain in Australia with their parents . Now that wording is a little ambiguous : they 'll ( obviously ! ) need the permanent residence to enter and remain , but you 're asking about entering only . In practice , if you showed up at the border with valid eVisitor visas for your younger children , they could turn you away because they 'd have very valid grounds to suspect they 're not leaving , but they would probably let you all in . However , this would almost certainly cause you hassle : when entering the country , especially if you do n't have tickets out within the 90 days an eVisitor permits ; if your children 's PR is granted , since skilled migration visas are usually only granted outside Australia ; and if your children 's PR is not granted within 90 days , since they 'll have to leave the country ! So I 'd recommend filing the paperwork to get your children added to your PR right now -- it should only be a formality , although Abbott knows DIBP can still take their sweet time processing it -- and cooling your heels until it 's granted .
This question is not that easy to answer as the leg space is very different depending on plane , airline and therefore route . Anyhow I did n't found any leg space database/comparison on the web till now . But there is another indicator you can use which is mostly up to date - the seat pitch . Seat Pitch : The distance between two rows of seats , this is the best indicator of legroom . More is better . On a quick look , it is mostly United , KLM , Delta , AA on their long-haul Eco Flights . But make sure that you check the aircraft model too . You should take a look at <URL>
end question
start question
What is preferable , Eurail Pass or Buying Pass on the spot ?
A rail pass , like the Eurail , is not always cheaper than buying tickets separately . It depends on your age and on how much and how far you want to travel . If you book in advance you can get more or less important discounts . The drawback is that you have to commit to an itinerary in advance . A pass gives you much more flexibility . Also note that if you are using a pass , you have to pays extra fees for compulsory seat reservations . You can find an overview of the tariffs <URL> . Now you see that the definitive answer depends on you and your plan . You can easily check the prices and book the tickets via the following websites : <URL> , for train travel in France , as well as between England and France and Italy and France . Do n't be misled by the name of the site . It is not confined to TGV trains only . <URL> , for train travel in Italy and between Italy and France . <URL> for train travel in England . I have quickly done the exercise for a hypothetical trip in May . I managed to find all the individual tickets for around 160 EUR if you travel in the 2nd class . Note that you will have to book as soon as possible and that you will certainly have to incur fees if you change your itinerary afterwards . The Eurail pass costs 228 EUR if you are less than 26 years old or 348 EUR if you are older . Add to these prices the reservation fees . Note that the " Adult " ( 26 + ) Eurail pass entitles you to travel in the first class . If flexibility and 1st class comfort are important , go for the Eurail pass . Otherwise , I would try to book the legs individually . For long distance travel in France you can also refer to a previous question on our site : <URL> .
A <URL> may be worth it for the discounts on tourist attractions , however , my wife and I found that most tourist attractions were not easily accessible from the public transit system ( e.g. , there are only a handful of metro stations that are close to the historic center of Rome , and they are on the periphery ) . <URL> , however , it can be difficult to navigate and busses only run on the major boulevards ( which excludes many of the smaller streets in old Rome ) . If your hotel is well situated and you are only going to be traveling to the major tourist attractions , you may be just as well off walking and taking the occasional taxi .
I suggest you go to the airport , and obtain your boarding passes there . There are three ways you 'll get them at the airport : If they have check-in machines , you can walk up to them and simply print the boarding pass ( note : depending on how crappy the software is , you may not be able to print them - this has n't happened to me in years , though , since the machines improved ) . You can walk up to the baggage drop-off and ask them to print the boarding pass for you . Depending on how busy/annoying they are , they may send you to a machine , though . You go to the normal check-in counter . This is guaranteed to work out fine , but may take a while , depending on how many other people are queuing . Whatever solution you choose , remember that as soon as you get to the " print your boarding pass " stage , you 're checked into the flight . Thus , you 're on the flight according to their system ( which is good if they kick people off an overbooked flight due to check-in order ) , which means it 'll be quite a hassle for them if you did n't make it to the gate . So you 're all fine .
One journalist did attempt to <URL> - both the artificial labs and the natural spaces . He details it in his book - <URL> if you 'd like to read it . The highlights in nature : Several years ago , the Campaign to Protect Rural England declared a <URL> the most tranquil place in the country ( when the nearby military base is n't doing training exercises ) . 12 such quiet places exist in the US , with more found around the world . A spot in the <URL> in Washington is one , as are places in <URL> in Canada , <URL> in Minnesota and <URL> in Hawaii ( see gallery ) . The others , however , he keeps confidential . On the other hand , he identified a quiet place deep in the <URL> , he suspects other such places in Poland , Norway , Sweden and Finland Recently , <URL> was created to show the quiet spots on a summer day . So that gives some idea for sound levels in the US . As you 'd expect - away from people , cities , and wildlife tends to produce quiet , although windy areas also affect it . Aside from nature , he points out the quietest places are custom built , such as the <URL> , in Minnesota . <URL> : " Group tours are available a few times a year and include a brief stop at the anechoic chamber ( call the lab for details ) . But the facility has had so much interest in the 45-minute challenge that the founder Steven Orfield is considering making that option available to the public within the next year , and is working with the Guinness Book of World Records to establish an official record for the longest time spent in an anechoic chamber . The 45-minute challenge will not come cheap , however , as companies renting the space normally pay $ 300 to $ 400 an hour , and someone trained from the lab must be able to supervise the participants to ensure their safety . " UPDATE : As of this month , Microsoft now officially holds the Guinness World Record for quietest place on earth - <URL> .
The northern most road would be the <URL> which ends in <URL> and extends to <URL> . The northernmost road in Canada is <URL> , which ends a couple of degrees of latitude south of the Dalton in <URL> , so that would be the northernmost you can get on existing roads . It is also possible that you might be able to travel on <URL> which potentially could go even further north but you will have to check where they are and if you will be allowed to travel them alone but <URL>
No , you can not . This information is not available to the public nor is it obtainable from the airline ( s ) without some court order . I would imagine it is near impossible for even normal law enforcement to get it as there is no " show me anyone who has a flight booked on this date " query possible ( as far as I know ) , since this information is distributed between the global GDS systems . I would not put it beyond the reach of some clandestine intelligence organization though . Even when law enforcement wants to know if someone has booked a flight , they usually have their name and another variable - such as a credit card or bank information against which to check ; and then they work the way back to the airline . However , I can imagine a scenario at a local airport where there are a handful of airlines , that law enforcement can compel them to reveal their bookings for that day - but that would have to be under court order and not without serious implications . For the boarding pass , it gets even more difficult . Just keep the surprise a surprise . :) If you really do want to get to know this information ; it is highly likely your boss used a travel agent to book these tickets ( as group bookings are commonly done through agents - because online sites generally have a limit on the number of tickets ; and agents usually give better discounts on such packages ) . So , I would do some low-tech sleuthing and try to find out which travel agency the company uses . Chances are high it was the same one that was used last time .
The passes for Vancouver and Victoria are different . I went two weeks ago from Vancouver to Victoria by bus and ferry . On the ferry you can buy in the gift shop a daily pass for buses in Victoria , costs 5 CAD . To add : you can do it in one day .
NOLI is used to indicate that the Terminal Tax has not been paid for flights . I am not sure what the letters stand for .
It would depend on the airline and the airport/country but no matter how you buy the ticket , the next big step is what 's called " checking in " . This is when the airline assigns you a seat and confirms that you will indeed be flying . In most cases , you can now check in online a few days to a few hours before departure and print the boarding pass at home ( or wherever you can find a printer ) . You can then show up at the airport and present this self-printed boarding pass together with your passport to drop your luggage off and go through the security and police check ( where applicable ) . Some airlines/airports also allow you to use a smartphone app as your boarding pass . Alternatively , it 's also possible to check in at the airport itself , possibly for a fee . I have not done that in quite some time ( preferring online check-in ) , but , back when I did it regularly , giving my name and presenting an ID was typically enough for the staff to find my booking . If using some automatic check-in machine , scanning the passport or presenting the credit card used for the booking was sometimes necessary . In any case , you do need to be at the airport in advance ( depending on the circumstances up to 2 or 3 hours before departure are recommended ) but not to go there in the days before . Finally , note that your ticket should include some confirmation number that you could write down to help the airline find your booking should any problem arise .
While there is plenty of good advice in the other answers , I feel I have some more to offer that is a little less spontaneous . Sleeping on a plane is a learned skill and it is improved by planning , preparation , and practice . You can change the likelihood of sleep from nearly nil to nearly guaranteed , but not if the first time you start to think about it is as the plane starts to taxi . First , the booking . Generally you have some choice here . Should you leave early in the morning , or late at night ? At 4pm , ensuring you 'll be hungry after a few hours in the air , or at 8pm , when you 're more likely to show up having eaten enough to last you through the night ? If it 's a 7 hour flight and you need to stay awake for 2 hours to get food , you 're not getting more than 5 hours of sleep . Pick a flight that either wo n't require you to sleep much , or that lets you organize the rest of your day to maximize the time you have for sleeping . Also think about whether a glass of wine would help - it 's much easier to get one ( bought in the airport , say ) at 7pm than at 7am . Here is also where you settle window/aisle ( I like window because it gives me a wall to lean on and a few more inches of space from my seat to the wall ) , consider paying for more legroom in a premium seat for $ 100 or so more , and the like . Second , the packing . NEVER count on the airline for pillows , blankets etc. . Sometimes they do n't get them . Sometimes they ca n't give you one until the seatbelt sign is off . Airline pillows are small and weird and most annoyingly , they 're slippery and they fall between your seat and the wall . Bring your own . A bed pillow from home , one of those C-shaped things ( solid or inflatable ) , something . I like an inflatable one with a VERY fuzzy cover and a little pocket for eyeshades : I do n't decline blankets or pillows from the airplane though - they are handy for padding the armrest so I can lean against it or over it without the edge digging into me . Continuing with packing , I bring my own blanket in the form of a pashmina which folds very small but unfolds enough to cover all of me ( 6 ' x 2 ' I suppose . ) I generally use separate blankets for my top and bottom half , to help the crew see that my seatbelt is fastened and to let me move more freely . If the airline does n't give out blankets I 'll use a coat on my legs . My pillow and blanket are familiar and comfortable , they smell right , and I never worry if they 're clean . The eyeshade makes a huge difference also , both in keeping out the light and in telling people you are sleeping and do n't want a drink , a newspaper , dinner , duty free , etc. . And for me , the sensation of the eyeshade on my face reminds me I am supposed to be sleeping . Noise cancelling headphones and a playlist of relaxing and enjoyable music are also on the packing list . These are better than earlugs in my experience , though I always have a few earplugs in the bag just in case . Over-the-ear can be uncomfortable to lie on , so I use earbuds . Plug into the entertainment system when you board , put them in , go to sleep . If you wake later , switch to your playlist and put your seat back . When you have to put your seat up , switch back to their system . I also choose shoes I can slip off and slip back on rather than ones that need tying . Your laceups can be in your checked luggage . So you chose the right flight and seat , you packed the right stuff and you 're at the airport . Eat , drink , go to the bathroom . These are all good ways to pass the time while you 're waiting to board . Also bring an empty water bottle with you that you can fill after security , or buy water in the airport . That way if you wake up thirsty you can immediately fix that and go back to sleep . Now on the plane , all you need to do is sleep . Do n't put the pillow around your neck . You have so little recline , you do n't need to prop your head up . Put it between the side of your head and the wall . Put your ear in the centre hole so it does n't get squished . Coat over legs , blanket over shoulder and chest . Snuggled up warm and cosy , listening to something you like , with a water bottle in easy reach and a clear " leave me alone " sign on your eyes , you will sleep . You just will . And trust me , it is so much better than a book or that movie you never got around to watching in theatres . You will get better at it every time . If you wake up , especially if you 're uncomfortable , change your position . Loosen your seatbelt as much as you can and sort of turn on your side . Or move your feet from on top of the carryon you stuffed under the seat in front of you , to next to it . Adjust your blankets a little . Move your pillow more under your chin . Your approach should be that you will do what you need to do to go back to sleep , not " oh well I tried but I woke up . " Do n't worry about what time it is . You wo n't miss your stop . If you wake up again , then try a third position . You 'll find something comfortable eventually . If you feel anxious when you wake up , especially if you 're getting
From at least <URL> : Whether clocks stay set on " ship " time or are changed as the vessel moves through time zones depends on the ship , the itinerary , and the time of year so it 'll depend on the company you use , and the zone of the ship and where it travels during the tour . Most ships adhere to the time zone they are in and clocks are set forward or back to adhere to local time . Passengers are also advised to change their watches to the ' correct ' time -- there is usually a reminder card on your pillow before you go to bed . However , not all ships do that , particularly in the Caribbean ! Some ships stay on " ship " time , which can be different from " island " time . So the best authority is the ship itself , and they 'll know from experience that people get it wrong , and will do their best to ensure you do n't miss the boat . From friends who have travelled on a cruise ship in the Mediterranean , breakfast and lunch could be literally ' whenever we wanted ' - there was often a buffet . <URL> has seating times for dinner that you can request , and for breakfast , say , on their ship <URL> : Breakfast times vary daily , so please check the Personal Navigator -- the Disney Cruise Line daily newsletter detailing all there is to see and do -- for specific dates and times while onboard . So yes , times can change , and meal times can change accordingly as well , so in the end you 'll have to check with your operator and whether they have any special time-operations on the ship you 're travelling on .
This is indeed true . What HaLaBi 's answer misses out on - and this is what makes it expensive rather than difficult per se - is that the Bhutan government sets a minimum daily tariff that tourists are supposed to spend when booking with a travel agent ( and visas can only be obtained once a tour package has been booked with a travel agent ) . The details are listed on the <URL> . The minimum tariff for tourist visiting in a group of 3 persons or more are as follows : High Season Tariff -- USD$ 250 per person per night for the months of March , April , May , September , October , and November . Low Season Tariff -- USD$ 200 per person per night for the months of January , February , June , July , August , and December . The minimum price includes : The rates given above are applicable per tourist per night halt in Bhutan . On the day of departure , the ' local agents ' host obligation shall be limited to breakfast only and any extra requirements shall be payable on actual basis . Couples or solo travellers have it slightly harder : Individual tourists and smaller groups of less than three persons shall be subject to surcharge , o * ver and above the minimum daily rates applicable * , as follows : Single individual US$ 40 per night Group of 2 persons US$ 30 per person per night The 10 % agency commission payable to agents abroad shall not be deductible from the surcharge So while the visa is not harder to get , Bhutan controls the influx of tourists using this pricing strategy . It 's part of a bigger policy the Bhutan government has on regulating its policies to measure ' <URL> ' ( GNH ) rather than <URL> .
I found out that I can set the date when I exchange . More info here : <URL>
Definitely not Ukrainian If you know Russian AND English you will be able to communicate with the vast majority of people . Now choosing the language to try first is a little bit tricky . I would say that with people who are definitely under 30 try English first . With people over 40 try Russian first . In Riga ( not sure about the rest of Latvia ) almost everyone speaks Russian on some level . Most Latvians there speak extremely good Russian . In Estonia it 's hit and miss but I would try English first . I 've experienced unwillingness to speak ( or even understand ) Russian from people who , I would assume , should at least understand it . But these are obviously anecdotal cases . Not sure about Lithuania since I live here and never experienced the issue first hand ( since I speak Lithuanian ) . From what I see , majority of 20-30 year-olds do n't speak and quite often do n't understand Russian . So I would definitely try English first with younger people . Most of the 40 + population knows Russian on some level . Willingness to use it varies from person to person , though , but I would n't say that these days there 's any serious bias towards pretending not to understand it . A lot of older people would n't understand English though .
I was in Myanmar in March 2016 . First of all , there is no pass at Kawthoung/Ranong , you take a small boat to cross the Kra Buri inlet/river , it takes 30min or so . I travelled from Hpa-An , north of Mawlamyine all the way down to Kawthoung , the road is actually pretty good because it was rebuild recently . There were two small constructions sites on the way , but we just had a wait a few minutes . The information about the bad road is outdated , do n't believe people who try to sell you tickets for a boats or planes in Kawthoung . There are buses from Kawthoung up north , but I did n't use any public transport this time , but I 've heard it is improving . It still takes some time .
TSA Allows Frozen Liquids Only if they Are Frozen Solid TSA allows frozen liquids if and only if they are presented frozen solid to security checks . This is in my opinion a fairly sneaky way to say " good luck with that " , seeing as <URL> . You can always try to find a liquid that presents itself in solid state at room temperature , and try to bring that through security . Searching for on the <URL> yields the following result : Search Results For : ice ! Special Instructions Frozen liquid items are allowed through the checkpoint as long as they are frozen solid when presented for screening . If frozen liquid items are partially melted , slushy , or have any liquid at the bottom of the container , they must meet 3-1-1 liquids requirements . If the frozen item is packed with ice or ice packs in a cooler or other container , the ice or ice packs must be completely frozen when brought through screening . If the ice or ice packs are partially melted and have any liquid at the bottom of the container , they will not be permitted . Medically necessary liquids may be accompanied by ice packs , but we ask that you declare these items to a security officer for inspection . You can pack frozen perishables in your carry-on or checked baggage in dry ice . The FAA limits you to five pounds of dry ice that is properly packaged ( the package is vented ) . The 3-1-1 rule for liquids , aerosols and gels in carry-ons is as follows : containers must be 3.4 ounces or less ; stored in a 1 quart/liter zip-top bag ; 1 zip-top bag per person . Larger amounts of non-medicinal liquids , gels , and aerosols must be placed in checked baggage . If the liquid is considered a hazardous material that is permitted onboard an aircraft , it is still subject to the 3-1-1 limitations . Many questions arise on whether an item is hazardous material and what requirements must be met to take it on an aircraft . The Pipeline Hazardous Material Safety Administration ( PHMSA ) at 1-800-467-4922 or the aircraft operator on which you are flying can assist you with your questions concerning hazardous material . Even if an item is generally permitted , it may be subject to additional screening or not allowed through the checkpoint if it triggers an alarm during the screening process , appears to have been tampered with , or poses other security concerns . The final decision rests with TSA on whether to allow any items on the plane . Australia Does Not Allow Frozen Liquids <URL> , for a liquid , aerosol or gel ( LAG ) to be considered a solid , it must present itself in this state at room temperature . Therefore , frozen liquids , i.e. liquids that are indeed liquid at room temperature , are still subject to the 100ml rule . Quoting from the linked site ( empasis mine ) : All liquids , aerosols and gels ( LAGs ) are covered by the quantity restrictions . LAGs is defined as : a substance that is a liquid when at room temperature ; an aerosol ; a gel ; a cream ; or a paste . If you are unsure whether an item falls within the restrictions , pack it in your checked baggage . New Zealand Does Not Allow Frozen Liquids Similarly as to Australian regulations , <URL> say that if the substance presents itself in liquid , gel or aerosol for at room temperature , then it is subject to the 100ml rule . Quoting from the linked website ( emphasis mine ) : What type of liquids , aerosols and gels do these measures cover ? These measures apply to any items that can be poured , sprayed or smeared or melt at room temperature . This includes , but is not limited , to : water and other drinks , soups , syrups , jams , stews , sauces and pastes foods in sauces or containing a high liquid content creams or ointments - including face creams , foundation , sunblock , insect repellent perfumes roll-on deodorants sprays - including antiperspirant and hair sprays gels - including hair , shaving and shower gels contents of pressurised containers - including shaving foam pastes - including toothpastes waxy substances - including hair wax liquid solid mixtures - including lipsticks , face compacts and blushers mascara and liquid eyeliner and lip gloss and lip balm liquid soaps fluid-filled cigarette lighters . These or similar items can only be taken in carry-on baggage on board aircraft in containers of 100ml or less , with all containers fitting into the resealable transparent 1 litre plastic bag . This bag must then be presented separately at the security screening point . Canadian CATSA/ACSTA Does Not Allow Frozen Liquid Food Items <URL> mentions solely frozen food items , stating that solid food is food that is normally solid at room temperature . Anything else is subject to the 100ml rule , even if frozen . Quoting from the linked website ( emphasis partially mine ) : Liquids/Food Beverages : Drink or discard any beverages in containers of more than 100 ml before you get to security screening checkpoint . This includes water
Quote from the airport 's <URL> : Stamps and some packaging can be purchased from Relay on Level 1 . A mail box is located on level 1 of the main terminal building at the top of the escalator near the front doors in the check-in area . <URL> for Relay : 4.00 am - 8.00 pm Sunday - Friday 4.00 am - 7.00 pm Saturday
Any information you provide on your passport renewal form can be given to any government agency , foreign government , corporation or private individual , who can then use it for " approved routine uses " , meaning basically anything the Feds feel like . From the " Privacy Act Statement " in <URL> : This information may be disclosed to another domestic government agency , a private contractor , a foreign government agency , or to a private person or private employer in accordance with certain approved routine uses . These routine uses include , but are not limited to , law enforcement activities , employment verification , fraud prevention , border security , counterterrorism , litigation activities , and activities that meet the Secretary of State 's responsibility to protect U.S. citizens and non-citizen nationals abroad . You do n't have to provide your email : Providing your Social Security number and other information requested on this form is otherwise voluntary . But if you do , the one benefit is that they can use it to contact you : If you choose to provide your email address in Item # 6 on this application , Passport Services may use that information to contact you in the event there is a problem with your application or if you need to provide information to us . Then again , they can also call or mail you if there 's a problem , so the upside seems pretty limited .
Here are some of the main signs I would look out for to decide if a review is fake . ( note : updated with some points taken from a study on the matter ) Overly hyped . While it is certainly possible that someone had an amazing time , the more hyped the review looks the more likely it is fake . " Fake reviewers tend to overdo " self-referencing " , that is , they overuse words such as " I " , " me " , " my " , " mime " , as if they try to underline their existence and credibility . " <URL> ( note : I changed this point following feedback in the comments ) Hotel jargon . " They have eight spacious twin suites with amazing views " . Unlikely a real guest would write that . Sudden burst of posts . If there are n't many reviews for the property and then all of a sudden there 's a bunch of new ones . It looks like someone decided to go bump up their rating . No background for the reviewer . If it 's the only place they reviewed , it takes away from the trust . Glaringly different from other reviews . Unless there 's been a renovation or change of management , generally speaking reviews are relatively consistent . Truthful reviewers tend to " focus on spatial details ( e.g. , bathroom , floor , small , location ) of their experience , while deceptive reviewers have difficulties in filling in spatial information . As a result , deceptive reviewers will focus on other types of information , such as why they went to Chicago ( e.g. , vacation , business ) , or whom they went with ( e.g. , family , husband ) . " <URL> " Deceptive reviews demonstrate the characteristics of imaginative writing , i.e. , frequent usage of verbs and adverbs , while truthful reviews demonstrate the characteristics of informative writing , i.e. , frequent usage of nouns and adjective ( except superlatives ) " <URL> In the end , you just need to look at the balance of evidence and decide for yourself if the person is worth trusting or not .
I 'll buy a Japan Rail Pass , but I did n't understand if I can use it on nearby subway stations such as Ningyocho , Kodenmacho and others . Is it possible ? No . These are part of the Tokyo Metro , which is not operated by JR , and thus the JR pass is not valid there . The nearest JR station is Shin-Nihombashi on the Sōbu line , but it 's a commuter line that goes only one stop into Tokyo to Toyko main station , where you could change to urban Chūō or Yamanote lines . The Yamanote line itself has the Kanda station a bit further , but that 's already a significant walking distance . is it possible to visit typical tourist places in Tokyo using the JR Pass ? There are some JR lines that are useful within Tokyo , namely the Yamanote and Chūō , and together they cover many of the main tourist attractions , at least if you 're prepared to walk a bit . But you 'll often take a lot longer than if you were willing to freely use all public transportation via the <URL> . Another factor is that with the JR pass , you can not use the normal entry/exit gates - you have to find one where there 's a JR employee and show it to them ( or climb over the gates and look like a criminal ) . So basically , relying only on a JR pass within Tokyo is possible but very inconvenient . Of course you can still use it to save some money when there 's a good connection to your target through a JR line , but that would be the case far more often if you chose a hotel near a JR station .
end question
start question
What campsites exist between Gaborone and Windhoek ?
Recently came back from the trip . Ganzi is an option for better accomedation ( more options ) , and we did stayed there on the way back from Maun . Unfortunately , it was too far from Gaborone for us ( 670 Km ) , and added another 100 Km to the trip . We did found a place to stay in closer to the middle : Kang village which is 420 Km from Gaborone and about 400 Km from the Namibian border post . There are several guest houses and one <URL> , fueling station and convenience store . The second night we stayed across the Namibian border in <URL> .
There is no direct transfer , Avalon gets only a few flights a day and nobody books connecting flights between the two on purpose . The only remotely sane non-taxi option is to take the <URL> from Avalon to Southern Cross ( adult $ 22 ) , and then switch to the <URL> to Tullamarine ( $ 18 ) . If you 're really pinching pennies , there are zero public transport alternatives for Avalon , but it 's possible to take a train from Southern Cross to Broadmeadows and switch to an occasional bus for the price of a normal Zone 2 ticket . This takes approximately forever though , and Broadmeadows is not the most savoury place in Melbourne to hang out at night . Details on <URL> . Last and least , a taxi from Avalon to Tulla would be well north of $ 100 , but given the cost of the bus this might actually make sense for a group of three or more .
The " Express " here is for express buses , which serve parts of the " outer " boroughs that are not well served by subways . These buses have a higher fare . Express trains in the subway system do not have a higher fare . Your fare card is checked when you swipe it in the turnstile to enter the system . Once you 're in , you 're in . You can stay as long as you like and ride as many trains ( express or otherwise ) as you like . Why did n't you just ask someone on the platform ? You would have learned very quickly that you could take the express trains .
The ADAC ( Allgemeiner Deutscher Automobil Club ) , the german automobile club , features a series of guides , that covers thousands of campgrounds in whole Europe . Each campground is shortly described , rated , and the facilities as well as the prices are listed . <URL> is an example of the actual guide that covers Germany and Scandinavia . I used these books a lot in Scandinava , Southern Europe and Eastern Europe and it was really useful . <URL> , but is not as detailed as the books .
The Google Maps coverage of Laos is not great ( we 're working on it ... ) , but <URL> from Vientiane to Savannakhet and beyond to the Cambodian border is the main highway in Laos and there 's plenty of facilities en route . Not much of it up to Western standards , mind you , but I gather you 're fine with this ;) The main cities/points of interest along the way , with distances from Vientiane : <URL> , 147 km , pop . ~ 20k . A few basic guesthouses . Not to be confused with the far larger Pakse further down south ! <URL> , 232 km from Vientiane plus ~ 50 km detour along Rte 8 . Small village , but with half a dozen guesthouses catering for visitors to Kong Lor Cave nearby . <URL> ( Thakhek ) , 338 km , pop . 85000 . Largest city en route , with a bridge across the Mekong to Nakhon Phanom , Thailand and plenty of accommodation .
From the perspective of a traveler , there is almost zero difference . Both embassies and consulates are representative departments of a foreign country/government within another country . Technically , an Embassy is where an " Ambassador " is based . As there can only be one Ambassador for a specific country , there can only be ( at most ) one Embassy . As the Ambassador is the highest ranking representative of that foreign government , the Embassy is thus also deemed to be the highest level of representative location . A consulate is similar , but generally deemed to be a lower ranking due to the lack of an Ambassador . Consulates will generally be smaller - often being more like an office where the embassy often doubles as the actual residence for the Ambassador and/or some of his staff . Some countries may not have an embassy in a specific country , but may only have a consulate there . This will occur in the situation where there is no ambassador assigned to the country . From a travel perspective , both will generally provide the same services , and normally location will be far more relevant than the name . In some cases consulates may be slower to process requests as they may simply pass them onto the Embassy rather than doing them themselves . eg , the Australia consulate in San Francisco does not issue new passports - they are forwarded to the embassy in Washington DC , however all passport requests from people in the San Francisco area must be done via the local consulate and can not be sent directly to the embassy !
They are different . The reason people use the terms interchangeably is that at many border crossings ( especially at airports ) one set of people handle both . Customs is about the stuff you are bringing into the country . Is it allowed , should you pay duty , should it be confiscated and burned , etc. . By default , none of your stuff is allowed in , even if you 're a citizen returning home . Immigration is about a person who is visiting , immigrating , or returning home . By default visitors are ( technically ) turned away unless they have a good reason and meet other criteria ( for example visitors to Canada may be turned away if they have a criminal record ) and those who live here are let in . Immigrants are let in if the paperwork they 've done in advance is all correct . Both processes involve " who are you , where are you coming from , why are you coming here , why were you there " and so on . Both involve a uniformed person , your passport , and probably your baggage . For example if you say you are visiting for 3 days , but you have brought weeks worth of clothing - probably all you own - along with more permanent possessions like books , photo albums , and CDs , an immigration officer may suspect you are moving here . Customs officers may want to inspect your baggage for contraband , and your explanation for your visit may make the difference between being inspected or not . As a result they are considered a single process in most people 's minds . To add to the complication , many airlines wo n't let you board unless you convince them you will be let in at your destination , and some airports ( especially in Europe ) want to look at your passport and other immigration-related documentation several times before you get to the boarding gate . None of this counts as " clearing customs and immigration " but it may sure feel like it .
Based on the way they organize the filters : Air Conditioning Only Climate Control Only Air Conditioning and Climate Control Climate Control and Ceiling Fan I would say that " climate control " refers to heating . So you have : rooms that have only AC rooms that have only heat rooms that offer heat and AC rooms with heat and ceiling fans for " cooling " Addendum - - - Since everyone was getting off these computer controlled thermostats type answers , I emailed the source , Expedia customer service . Their reply ... ' Climate control is the proper heating and ventilation . It has a capacity to blow warm air or ventilate by letting in air at ambient temperature . '
I am currently in Skopje in Macedonia and there is a 6am bus to Thessaloniki every Monday , Wednesday and Friday <URL> No trains at the moment .
Personally , I 'd definitely go for renting a car . Puerto Rico 's a very car-centric place and you really need to your own wheels to get around anywhere outside San Juan ( and arguably there as well if you plan on venturing outside the old city walls ) . Roads , signage and driving is n't too far behind mainland US standards , especially compared to what you see elsewhere in Central America and the Caribbean , so it 's the easy option as well . Plus they even use kilometers and liters like sensible people ... although for some bizarre reason speed limits are still in miles ! A taxi from San Juan to Fajardo would cost you around $ 80 one-way , which is pretty poor value compared to just renting a car for $ 50-ish/day . I 'm not sure what buses you 're talking about , since as far as I know Puerto Rico 's only long-distance public transport option is the público , which is really just a shared taxi without a fixed schedule . ( San Juan does have scheduled buses , but they 're all local services . ) They leave from awkwardly located terminals at random times when they happen to fill up , and unless you get there at the hairy butt crack of dawn ( 6-7 AM ) , you may be in for a long wait . I made the mistake of showing up at Ponce 's terminal at 10 AM once , and it took me two hours to get a ride to San Juan , this on what 's probably the " busiest " route in the territory between its two biggest cities . Once they do get going , they stop randomly along the way and at your destination to drop off people , which also makes them far slower than driving from point A to point B by yourself . Pretty much the only upside is that they 're cheap , SJ to Fajardo would be around $ 5/head .
The <URL> says Bus number 25 connects the Quimper Cornouaille Airport to the town centre of Quimper in less than 30 minutes . The bus station is located outside the airport . <URL> is the official site of the bus service , it seems french only but there is a nice route calculator which is n't hard to use and it helps to plan the trip in great detail .
That project was meant to be finished on 2014 , delayed to 2015 and finally to 2016 . It 's uncertainly until now if it 's going to be finished on this half of semester as they promise to ( again ) . <URL> , and It says that they will open up the station without even finishing the rails ( sigh ) . Probably it 's going to take more time as always . PS : It also says that the construction is paralized therefore It 's almost certain that wo n't be inaugurate on time .
My favorite way to get between the two used to be on a United Express Embraer-120 operated by SkyWest , which gave you a grand aerial tour of the LA basin and , at the time , 500 frequent flyer miles for 34 flight miles . Sadly , those flights were discontinued some years ago . Shared Van As with DAL-DFW , MIA-FLL , or HOU-IAH then , the most direct and economical LAX-SA transfer would be a shared van service ( if traveling alone ) . At present , <URL> are the concessionaires . SuperShuttle 's website quotes $ 36 for the first passenger and $ 9 for each additional passenger . There are two main problems with shared vans , at any major airport : You could have up to 8 fellow passengers going to up to 8 different destinations . If you are the last passenger to be dropped off , it could be a couple of hours before you reach your destination . LAX being a huge airport , there will probably be vans headed to John Wayne or its environs throughout the day . But , on the flip side to # 1 , this can mean waiting for the van to fill , whether it 's others who have made a reservation or walk-ons . So the time you save on stops is somewhat negated by the time you sit on the curb for other SNA-bound passengers to materialize . Still , at $ 36 ( and $ 1 -- 2 for the driver for each bag s/he handles ) and a couple of hours , this is probably the best trade-off you will find . If you want an exclusive van , the charge is $ 95 total for up to 9 people , though if it 's privacy and directness you need rather than capacity , you might as well book a taxi or ride service . Taxis and Ride Services According to TaxiFareFinder.com , a one-way metered taxi ride from LAX to SNA is about $ 135 , which includes the $ 4 airport surcharge , $ 113 fare , and $ 18 tip . Unfortunately , almost the entire length of the trip will be along the <URL> , which is unpredictable . Thus , your fare could end up $ 10-15 higher , and range from 45 minutes in ideal traffic conditions to double that in bad traffic . Uber and Lyft charges vary according to demand and driver availability . Right now ( Monday around 9am Pacific Time ) , the low-end UberX is quoted at $ 46-61 , and the super high-end UberLUX $ 233-303 . FlyAway to Downtown + Trains The <URL> , a flat $ 8 , is the easiest way to get to downtown Los Angeles from LAX via public transportation . Now , DTLA is in the wrong direction from where you want to go ( northeast as opposed to southeast of LAX ) , and a good 45 minutes away , but if you have time to kill and want to save a little money , this option is not entirely crazy . I outline several downtown to JWA train/bus and train/taxi combinations in <URL> . If your friend lives near SNA , he or she almost certainly has access to a car , and if they were willing to pick you up from the airport , might be willing to pick you up from a MetroLink or Amtrak station nearby . Disneyland Shuttles JoErNanO has already pointed out the possibility of going via Disneyland using <URL> . Competitors include <URL> ( put on sunglasses before opening that website ) and <URL> . As the Disneyland Resort is a common destination from both airports , you can piece together a trip The downside is that Disneyland is not along the most direct route from LAX to SNA , and thus you will spend more time , and risk more traffic jams , traveling to and from Anaheim . Additionally , as JoErNanO has also pointed out , these services are not primarily aimed at inter-airport transfers , so the schedules will not be coordinated , and you may end up waiting a good while at Disneyland 's bus depot , which is notably less magical than the park .
I was in SEA at the beginning of the year . Firstly , good on you for not flying south . It 's a very expensive and unnecessary flight for a trip that can very easily be made on land . When it comes to VIP buses in South East Asia , there is n't usually a big difference , but it does depend on the price . Sometimes a VIP bus may give you better seating , A/C , only other tourists/foreigners on the bus and/or it could be faster , as some of the normal sleepers pick up a lot of locals along the way who sit in the aisles . However , that being said , the VIP buses can be exactly the same . With the trip from Vientiance to Pakse I would probably just get the normal sleeper-bus unless there is a major price difference , which , in that case , probably means the normal is full of locals and will be a less comfortable ride .
As <URL> managed to find , there 's information on public transport on the <URL> ( click the British flag in the top bar if it comes up in Dutch ) . It 's actually even easier than the website makes out ! In the baggage hall , there 's a sign up explaining about the two bus options , and with directions to the bus stops . When you exit the terminal , turn left and walk for an epic 20-30 meters , and you 'll reach the bus stops . There 's one stop for the # 50 , one for the # 33 , both well signed . If you have an <URL> , you can use that for the journey . Otherwise , $ 3 in cash paid onboard gets your a single ticket valid for 1 hour . The <URL> runs direct to Rotterdam Central Station , taking about 25-30 minutes . For the west of the city centre or around the station , that 's probably the best bet . Otherwise , the <URL> bus shuttles you out to the Meijersplein metro station , from which it 's easy to take the metro north to The Hague ( Den Haag ) , or south into the city centre . You can use a journey planner like the <URL> or <URL> to work out which 'll be the best for you . Both buses are pretty frequent , every 10-20 minutes depending on the time of day , and you can be at the bus stop in well under 10 minutes from wheels down if you 're travelling only with hand luggage only Depending on how many journeys you plan to take , it might or might not be worth getting an OV-chipkaart . It 's currently <URL> , which reduces the single ticket to the city centre to $ 1.66 , so you 'll need to make a few journeys to make it worthwhile . If it 's open , you can buy one from the <URL> , which is between the arrivals and departure areas ( turn right outside customs , and it 's on your left next to the currency exchange office ) . However , Ako seems to have much shorter opening hours than many other places in the airport , so take care if arriving very early or late in the day ! Otherwise , the people at the information desk just after you exit customs are very helpful , ask them for advice if you need it !
Yes ! It opened in October 2015 : <URL> I learned of this and borrowed the image from <URL> .
The prices for regional trains between Aachen and Cologne are set by the transport association VRS ( <URL> ) . A single trip costs 17 $ per person . A four-trip ticket is available for 61.20 $ , a day ticket for unlimited travel 28.50 $ for one person , 41 $ for five persons . All these tickets are available last-minute at the train station . Other alternatives would be : Schöner-Tag-Ticket-NRW : Valid for a day in all regional trains of North Rhine-Westphalia ( including this route ) for 29 $ one person , 42 $ five persons . Using inter-city trains ( there are n't many ) . This costs 22 $ per person per direction for a flexible ticket . Non-flexible tickets might be available on <URL> for 19 $ one person or 29 $ two persons ( per direction ) if booked early . So in conclusion : For two persons returning on the same day a VRS fare level 7 day group ticket for 41 $ is the cheapest option . The ticket is also valid for all busses and other transport in Aachen and Cologne on that day . As this ticket is valid for five persons you might be able to find three other persons for sharing one leg of the ticket at the station .
According to <URL> ( june 2009 ) quoting a mail from SNCF , Transilien network does not accept Interrail .
I just met a friend yesterday who came back from a journey to Georgia . He wanted also to cross the border to Russia but it was n't possible . They told him it is only allowed for Russian and Georgian citizens . Do n't know if they told him wrong facts , but afaik the border is closed .
As for your alternative question on " how to get the cheapest fare in Thalys " : the b-europe . com website offers a <URL> . For each date , it shows the price of the cheapest tickets still available on that date . The cheapest possible fare for a trip from Liège-Guillemins to Paris Nord seems to be $ 29 . These are always " Non Flex " tickets ( color coded in green ) meaning there 's no possibility of exchanges or refunds . There might be cheaper tickets because there 's a color code for " Promo " tickets ( yellow ) , but I 'm not seeing any on the fare calendar now ( I 'm not sure I ever have for the routes I 've booked ) . You can always book up to three months in advance , so today April 7th , you can book tickets up to July 7th . For that date , the cheapest offers I 'm currently seeing are : I 'm not sure about the Liège-Paris route , but in my experience with other routes , these offers do n't last long , especially if you do n't want to travel on a very early or very late train . So your best bet is to book exactly three months in advance .
end question
start question
How can I go from Amsterdam to Paris ?
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
According to the <URL> , there is a cable car operating from Chamonix to Aiguille du Midi almost all year around ( except for 11/4-12 / 20 ) . The return-trip would cost you 55 euro 's .
There is a daily train leaving Amsterdam at 20:31 and arriving in Munich at 7:10 the following day . The trains leaves Munich at 22:47 each evening and arrives in Amsterdam at 8:56 . The price very much depends on when you travel , when you book and how much comfort you want to have . <URL> . From Munich you can take a local train to Garmisch-Partenkirchen , at the foot of the Zugspitze . It 's a 90 minutes ride . <URL> . The train continues to Innsbruck . You can consider that as well . In this case , take an accomadation in Innsbruck . There is a small ski resort , the Patscherkofel , accessible from the city center by funicular and cable car . If that 's not enough , you have some nice resorts which can easily be reached by a bus shuttle from Innsbruck , such as the Stubaier Gletscher , Schlick 2000 or Axamer Lizum . This way you can spend a nice skiing weekend without having to renounce to the amenities of a city . The train also calls at Wörgl , from where you have a very quick access to the very nice " Wilder Kaiser " resort . In case you do n't like to take the train , flying from Amsterdam into Munich will probably not ruin you . But it 's much less convenient . From Munich airport to Garmisch-Partenkirchen is more than 2h30 and you have the usual airport hassle . And probably less convenient schedules . The night train allows you to get the most out of your scarce time . If you are francophile , you can consider a flight to Geneva . With Easyjet you will find decent prices . From the Geneva airport you have bus shuttles to plenty of French and Swiss resorts . This will take you 1h30 to 2h00 , depending on the destination . Schedules are available on the homepage of Geneva 's airport . If " cheapness " is an important criterion , prefer France over Switzerland . I would also try to contact local tour operators and travel agencies . Chances are high that they have ready made packages just for short ski trips . Eventually , that might be the most convenient option . You just have to go to the office and book it . They take care of the logistics . It is not necessarily more expensive than if you try to brew something by yourself .
No . The highest mountain in Yemen ( and the entire Arab peninsula ) is <URL> , and is 3666 metre high . Citing Wikipedia : Although the summit is not snow-capped like its counterparts in northern Lebanon and Syria , there have been reports of snow on the peak and frost in the winter is there daily . In other words , even at the highest point in Yemen snow is not ubiquitous . Therefore , there is no outdoor snow-skiing tourist industry in Yemen .
The cheapest way to travel from Amsterdam to Paris is by hitch-hiking . Failing that , early-booked buses are cheapest . For example , if I search now for a Eurolines bus on a weekday late May , I find tickets as cheap as 9 $ . You want to search for Promo tickets , indicated in dark red in the fare calendar . Screen-capture of Eurolines booking system There are probably other bus companies , but probably it wo n't get much cheaper than that .
Part of this may depend on where you are renting the car from . For example , if you 're renting in El Calafate , it 's pretty common for people to take cars over the border into Chile to go to Torres del Paine . While the permits and necessary steps might vary between different car rental companies , the offices for all the car rental companies should be able to help you take the necessary steps . From what I 'm seeing , it sounds like there are always additional fees . For example , see this website : <URL> I do n't think it 's likely that you 'll be able to get detailed information about this on any of the main rental car websites ( Hertz , Budget ) and you may need to send an email to the office in the city you 're renting from so you can get all the up-to-date information . In summary : Probably the reason why it 's hard to find published info about this in English is because the rules often change and it 's not something the companies necessarily want to encourage . But having said that , it 's almost definitely possible , so you should n't be afraid to ask ! :)
Ireland is part of <URL> that comprises the islands of Ireland , Great Britain , the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands , but <URL> : Unlike the Schengen Agreement , the Common Travel Area provides no mechanism for the mutual recognition of leave to enter and remain , and the United Kingdom and Ireland operate entirely separate visa systems with distinct entry requirements . In general , a United Kingdom visa will not allow a traveller entry to Ireland , nor vice-versa . Since your visa is single entry I would recommend you to stay in Ireland if you can not obtain multiple entry visa .
The metro link to the airport is newly opened ( Monday 3rd November 2014 ) See official <URL> for details and map . So you will need to take a tram from the Airport to Trafford Bar and change for a tram for one stop to Old Trafford . <URL>
Picking a random date in the future , <URL> shows that flying to Larnaca and then going by airport shuttle is probably the cheapest option in terms of paying . However , if you 're searching elsewhere for flights , check out both Larnaca and Ercan as options , and flying out of both CDG and ORY in Paris , as they seem to produce quite different prices . Other than that , you 're down to hitching or cycling - driving and taking a ferry looks extremely exorbitant !
Easy . For starters , there 's a bus ( do n't take it ) from Venuezuela via Lima and Santiago to Buenos Aires that I was told about while there , takes a week . But gives you an idea of the max time you might spend on buses , given you 're doing a bit of tracking around . Lima to Arequipa and then Cusco can be done in 1-4 days depending on what stops you want to do . I recommend a side trip to Colca Canyon near Arequipa , go find the Condors . Inca Trail and Machu Picchu are obviously done together , you could allow a week for acclimatisation and the trail , including some time in Cusco . 8 hours by bus to Lake Titicaca ( Puno ) . You do n't need more than a day or two at max here . Most travellers just do n't like it that much , and some feel the reed islands are a scam , but if you 're like me and dreamed of seeing the lake , you can and will still enjoy it . 5 hours by bus to La Paz . 2-3 days here - things like the Death Road , exploring the city and more . Overnight bus to Uyuni , and then a salt flats tour . Worth noting that the ' best ' option is to carry on through to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile , but some do go in a sort of loop back to Tupiza , from memory . If you did go to San Pedro , it 's then 10 hours by bus to Salta in Argentina and another 20 to Buenos Aires . Heck , you could even go down to Santiago and Mendoza ( wine country !!! ) and then across to Buenos Aires . See how your time is going and go with the flow . I 've not been to Bonito and the falls , although I 'd ask why not Iguazu Falls ? However , the main thing - do n't overplan it . Give yourself 6 weeks from Lima to Buenos Aires , and pick the things that are absolute musts . Then let other travellers fill in the gaps with suggestions . You may find yourself in Nazca , seeing the Nazca Lines , going to the jungle in Bolivia , wine country in Argentina , or even down the coast from Buenos Aires ( 20 hours ) to the wildlife area around Puerto Madryn ( whales !! ) . I spent 4 months tracking around several of these countries , but a friend I traelled with for a bit went from Santiago and Mendoza , up to Iquique , across to La Paz , Lake Titicaca , Cusco + Machu Picchu ( train not trail though ) , Arequipa and Colca Canyon , Nazca and Lima in 3 weeks , without rushing . Yes it 's a lot of bussing , but you get used to it , and some of the buses in Peru , Chile and Argentina are surprisingly luxurious for a few extra dollars ( think beds ! ) . Look for full-cama/cama-suite buses . I did n't finish all my posts on South America , but <URL> has quite a few posts on some of the places you are talking about , which may be of interest for timeframes - I tend to describe the transportation quite a bit too .
There is really no limit set on the amount of cash you can carry into the country . The only difference is whether or not you need to declare it when you cross the border which according to <URL> is 10000 Euro . The only thing is that when you carry amounts of that size or larger Customs and various other agencies start to get curious on where this money came from . Additional Info as per @Annoyed 's comment From the site of the <URL> Export of foreign exchange/currency notes : Indian residents going abroad are allowed to take with them foreign currency upto any amount so long as the same has been purchased from an authorized foreign exchange dealer as per norms . Any person resident out of India is allowed to take out of India unspent foreign currency not exceeding the amount brought by him on his arrival in India provided that in the case of foreign currency notes exceeding US$ 5,000 / - or its equivalent or foreign exchange in the form of currency notes , bank notes or traveller 's cheques exceeding US$ 10,000 / - or its equivalent , the same was declared to the Customs authorities in Currency Declaration Form ( CDF ) at the time of his arrival in India . So long story short . Still no limitation as long as the source can be proven legitimate .
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
From : <URL> Your easiest way would be to take the MRT because Chinese Gardens is just two stops away . First take the North-South ' Red ' Line from Bukit Batok to Jurong East interchange , and then change over to the East-West ' Green ' Line going towards Joo Koon . Chinese Gardens is the next stop after Jurong East , and there 's a path leading from the Chinese Gardens MRT station to the actual gardens .
Yes . You are allowed to do vrijwilligerswerk , as it is called in Dutch , if you have a legal permit to be there . One exception is when you are awaiting a decision as to your status . <URL> contains Dutch-language information on the topic . Google Translate may be your friend . However , you might need to be careful with insurances : <URL> . I do n't know if you can get a visa through doing the volunteer labour , though . I would recommend to contact the organisation where you want to do volunteer labour for practical issues .
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
I never found the stereotypical rude Parisian I was warned about . Several people went far out of their way to help me in ways I would n't expect in my own city . I did not find a great number of people outside the tourism industry in Paris that spoke English . I did always use the French words and phrases I knew " excusez moi " , " salut " , " merci " , and if I could struggle by with those I would n't even ask " parlez vous anglaise " I got the impression people appreciated that . Using single words goes far , French or English , if you ca n't form a sentence . If you manage to form a broken sentence people will often help out by correcting your mistakes ! More people know more English vocabulary that you know French vocabulary but may not be able to make or parse English sentences . Be patient . Smile a lot . Never act rude or arrogant . Do n't talk loud when people do n't understand . When you get to your hotel or tourist information people will be able to speak English .
You can , but it is a very roundabout solution . From Phuket , you must travel to Singapore . From there you can take the Ferry to the port of Belawan . Then travel to Banda Aceh . Another route is from Pulau Aceh which travels to MIN Ulee Lheue . Unfortunately according to here , <URL> , the ferry from Penang was closed . The ferry from Penang is no longer operating . One thing I did notice , have you thought about flying out of Penang ? It seems flights are much cheaper . SIDENOTE : If you fly from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur in early Dec. the rates are much cheaper . Then fly from Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . But I can see why you mentioned this is complicated . ADDENDUM : However , I looked up flights in Air Asia matching early Dec flights . My trip went from Phuket to Kuala Lumpur , then Kuala Lumpur to Banda Aceh . PH - > KL $ 45.25 Dec 3 Depart 8:05 -10:20 AM flight KL - > BA $ 35.75 Dec 3 Depart 13:15 -13:45 PM BA - > KL $ 42.20 Dec 10 Depart 8:50 -11:20 AM KL - > PH $ 48.61 Dec 10 Depart 18:05 -18:40 Total Price : $ 171.81 or 5950.38 Thai Baht
You have a residence permit , so you do not need a visa . ( As noted by Relaxed , your single-entry visa is no longer valid because it 's valid for a single entry only , and you 've already used that single entry . ) From the Schengen Borders Code ( <URL> ) : Article 5 For intended stays on the territory of the Member States of a duration of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period , which entails considering the 180-day period preceding each day of stay , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( a ) [ ... ] ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit or a valid long-stay visa ; ( Emphasis added ) The last clause , in italics above , means that you do not need a visa as long as your residence permit remains valid . ( Paragraph ( a ) , omitted , concerns the requirements for a passport or similar travel document . ) Similarly , Article 7 [ ... ] On entry and exit , third-country nationals shall be subject to thorough checks . ( a ) thorough checks on entry shall comprise verification of the conditions governing entry laid down in Article 5 ( 1 ) and , where applicable , of documents authorising residence and the pursuit of a professional activity . This shall include a detailed examination covering the following aspects : ( i ) verification that the third-country national is in possession of a document which is valid for crossing the border and which has not expired , and that the document is accompanied , where applicable , by the requisite visa or residence permit ; ( Emphasis added ) Note the word " or " in the last clause , supporting the conclusion that a residence permit by itself authorizes a third-country national to enter the Schengen area , without the need to hold a visa . ( Section 1 , omitted , concerns entry and exit checks generally ; section 2 concerns the " minimum check " performed on those enjoying the right of free movement . )
Wikipedia is actually quite useful for that . It has a <URL> . I can easily find flights to some of them on the usual search engines , mostly with TAP through Lisbon . <URL> , the flag carrier , also appears to offer many flights . If you want to do a " broad search " , without specifying an airport , you can also use <URL> , <URL> or <URL> . All three accept a country name as destination and the first one even searches other modes of transportation and some charter/low-cost carriers . If you do n't find what you want through the search engines , you can also check the airport pages on Wikipedia . There is an article about most of them , typically with a mostly up-to-date list of destinations and carriers . Thus , you can for example easily find out that TUIFlyNordic offers flights to <URL> from Arlanda ( apparently sold through <URL> ) .
end question
start question
How to Protect a Backpack from Splashing without Plastic ?
Use a rain cover . They are basically nylon or alike fabric sheets , with a bit of sewing on the corners and have elastic sewn on the outer edge , which will tighten it around your pack . Covers are available in a wide range of sizes and it does not matter if the fit is not really close , as long as the bag is covered and the elastic can reach the back . It does not waterproof a bag , but it is certainly enough to improve the bags own properties to keep splash water out . ( If you can not find a photo , make one ... , when you google - rain cover backpack - you will see plenty of them , but not within the rules for the site . ) Photos of the rain cover on my bike bag , backpack and cover out of easy reach , but the covers work the same . <URL> Raincover with and over the bike bag . Photos by Willeke , can be used under creative commons rules .
Your best bet for public transport access to the Ontario North is <URL> . They run scheduled buses from Toronto to the north , including Temagami ( but not Hiawatha , wherever that is ) . It is quite a trip , stopping at various small towns you wo n't get to otherwise . If you want to get to the real remote areas your best bet is the Polar Bear Express train to Moosonee - it 's as remote as you can get without flying , which I assume is outside your budget .
city bus , line - ticket 2.40 PLN ( ~ 0.56 $ ) night bus , line - ticket 2.80 PLN ( ~ 0.66 $ ) taxi - less than 50 PLN ( ~ 12 $ ) If you are taking day bus and want to get to main market square , quit bus at " Renoma " stop and follow Świdnicka street . If you want to get to train or bus station , quit bus at " Dworcowa " stop ( the last one ) .
In the UK , if domestic and international travellers are mixed , you will have to have a photo taken whilst passing through security if you are connecting to a domestic flight . At the gate , they match this photo up with the one taken at security . Details can be found <URL> . To strengthen the security of the United Kingdom border , airports that operate common departure lounges must comply with UK Border Force conditions that are necessary to prevent any circumvention of UK immigration controls . This includes a requirement to capture a facial biometric for each domestic passenger on entry and exit of a departure lounge in order to verify their identity . Update : I think there 's some confusion in the other answers about what the question is exactly . Let 's say you fly Boston - Heathrow - Paris . In this case you do not pass through immigration , but just a security and boarding pass check . You then board your flight to Paris where you would go through immigration . The OP is asking what if you went through security and then attempted to board a domestic flight to , say , MAN , perhaps by swapping a boarding pass with someone else , or just using a second BP you 'd already printed under a different ticket ( though that will also result in failure due to Ready To Fly in LHR ) . What will happen is that you will arrive at the gate with the intention of boarding your domestic flight . You will face the biometric camera and it will not recognise you and you will be denied boarding . The only way of exiting the airport will be through immigration .
My first advice to you would be to NOT book a tour online . They try to upsell you - in this case , to the longer tour package including the Tiger Temple and the ' Bridge on the River Kwai ' bridge - and more often than not it costs you a lot more too , because it 's just the Internet middleman agency that keep a major share of the booking fee . Go to Bangkok , and then most hostels do sell tours for just the floating markets , you can definitely find those and they are of course cheaper not only because it 's shorter but also because buying it locally is much much cheaper than buying online . I believe there are a few floating markets around Bangkok so I 'm not sure the specific one it 's referring to . For the other parts typically included in the itinerary , the Tiger Temple is in a VERY out-of-the-way place and hard to reach by public transport ; in fact , I think I only saw tour groups being brought along . There 's <URL> ( and having visited the place I definitely think there 's something shady about that place and how they operate ) but then again it 's not something you 'll see anywhere else in the world - especially Western expat Buddhist ' monks ' with more tattoos than the typical hardened escaped convict . The other bit that 's often included on the tours is the bridge that inspired the film The Bridge on the River Kwai in Kanchanaburi . I love that film , so I really wanted to visit that place too , and rather than a tour I 'd recommend <URL> . . To be fair , if you have n't seen the film or are not a fan of it , it 's not that exciting a place to go to , but train journeys on local trains are an excellent way to actually mingle with so-called ' real ' locals . EDIT : The hassle-free way to visit a floating market would be to take a tour ... and it wo n't cost you that much . If you have more time , you could try making to the floating markets . Chances are , at some point you will have to take a taxi maybe and then it may end up costing you more than if you booked a tour . It 's much more fun figuring it out yourself though , at least for me . I did n't try that in Thailand , I did in Cambodia . Cambodia 's floating markets , to me , felt a lot less ' touristy ' compared to Thailand 's and loved the experience more . In Thailand , I found a lot of the shops were geared towards selling souvenirs and first-time travellers to Asia going through their ' Asia 101 ' course . That said , you can meet some interesting folks . Like this one woman at one of the floating markets near Bangkok ( I 'll need to check my journal to look up the exact name ) , she owns all the shops on one pier of the floating market . It 's funny because you buy from any shop on that side of the pier and you get referred to her to make your payment ( she still handles the tills on most days ) . Charming woman , talk to her if you go there , her picture will be on every shop sign so you 'll know who she is .
Every ( tourist ) hostel in the old town of Cartagena in Colombia can arrange a taxi for you at any time . I would think any hotel can as well . If you 're on your own , you could try your best at calling a taxi company and arranging a pickup . But , asking for help at one of the tourist offices would probably be a better bet . Unless your Spanish is good . If you are comfortable walking through the old town in the middle of the night , taxis are waiting for rides on the eastern corner of the old town , near <URL> . I 've never been to the airport in Cartagena , but considering it 's not a small town , I would think that aiming for 4AM would not be a bad idea . But , that 's speculation .
First of all , haggling is not an expected part of buying goods in Dubai , which is by a fairly long shot the most Westernized place of the Middle East . Most people shop in shopping malls much like those in London , where things have clearly labeled prices , and you would only negotiate for discounts if you 'd do that in the West as well ( say , buying a sofa ) . Neither will you need to haggle for taxis , public transport , restaurants , cafes , etc. . You can thus quite easily complete all your souvenir shopping in haggle-free comfort in a mall , department store or even supermarket -- I 've found the best thing to bring back from the Middle East is high-quality dates , and both Carrefour etc and the airport sell nice gift-wrapped ones at excellent prices . Where people do haggle is the traditional markets , most notably the gold souq and the other markets around the Creek . Rest assured , no merchant will be offended by you accepting their first price , in fact they 'll have a hard time containing their glee as they try to sell you more stuff and then pass you onto their friends to collect some commission on top . But if you must buy from a haggle-y shop and do n't want to haggle , I usually adopt this approach : establish a reference price by visiting a hotel gift shop ( ludicrously overpriced ) or a fancy air-con mall souvenir shop ( still overpriced , but not quite so badly ) and chop it down to what seems like a sensible level . Then walk into the bazaar shop and ask if you can buy X for Y dirhams . If they say " yes " , win-win ; if they say " no " , say thank you and walk away . If ( when ) they run after you yelling lower and lower prices , turn around once they get to the price you named and you have a deal .
I suggest : Eurostar from London to Paris ( 2h30 ) or to Brussels ( 2h00 ) Train to Istanbul ( 47 to 49h ) Train to Tehran ( 66h ) Bus to Bandar-e-Abbas Ferry to Dubaï Train may be faster and more comfortable in Europe . Bus may be faster and more comfortable in Middle-East . Information sites are : Train in Europe : <URL> ( I choose multilingual belgian site ) Turkey : <URL> Iran : <URL>
To find a specific answer , your best bet is to use the <URL> . Tell it exactly when you want to leave , how fast your walk , if you want to minimise walking and/or changes ( eg due to baggage ) , and it 'll give you an answer In general through , from Covent Garden to Heathrow , there are two options . One is slightly quicker , one is a lot cheaper . Option one - board a Heathrow bound Piccadilly Line train . There 's roughly one every 7 minutes for most of the day . Take that all the way to Heathrow , should take just under an hour ( 50-55 minutes once your onboard ) . Then , walk to your terminal , allow about 10 minutes . It 's a zone 1 - zone 6 single , unless you have a travel card . Using an Oyster card , off-peak it 's # 3 for the journey . Alternately , make your way to Paddington Station , then take the Heathrow Express . From Paddington there 's 4 trains an hour , journey time of about 15 minutes to T1/T2/T3 , 20 minutes to T5 , absolute age to T4 because you have to change ... From Covent Garden to Paddington , there 's two options . You can either take a Piccadilly Line train to Piccadilly Circus and change to Bakerloo line . Or , if you do n't have too much luggage , enjoy a pleasant 10 minute walk from Covent Garden down to Charring Cross , then 10 minutes on the Bakerloo up to Paddington . I 'd say that with changes and waits for trains , allow about 30-35 minutes either way from Covent Garden to being at the Heathrow Express platform in Paddington . As such , the Heathrow Express option is n't looking much quicker , but is looking about # 20 more expensive !
So , there are two mechanical solutions to , what is , fundamentally social problem , but before I provide them , I want to make clear that employing these is an easy way to be regarded as a jerk by your fellow passengers , and not without merit ; the seat is designed to recline , and while putting it back can be inconsiderate , restricting the use of the feature by others can be just as inconsiderate on a long flight . Think long and hard about just how much of an asshole you are willing to be before attempting to block the passenger in front of you from taking what small comfort they can in the horrid conditions found in coach class on a commercial airliner . First , the commercial solution : <URL> . A small device that clips onto the arms supporting the tray table , when the clip is in place , the seat in front of you is unable to recline . It can be adjusted to allow for limited recline , if you 're feeling considerate , but the ' courtesy card ' provided by the manufacturer should be pretty clear evidence that this is inherently a pretty inconsiderate product . If , in addition to being a jerk , you 're also a cheapskate , you might want to look into using a <URL> as a shim to prevent the seat in front of you from reclining . Like the Knee Defender , this has the downside of requiring that you keep your tray table down to rescue your precious legroom , and , unlike the Knee Defender , also will take up some space on the tray table , which may or may not bother you . It is similarly inconsiderate to use . Alternately , you could be less of a jerk , and pay the often pretty nominal premium to get a bulkhead facing/exit row seat , where nobody is in front of you to recline .
<URL> runs bus service to Disneyland in Anaheim from downtown Los Angeles . You can take Bus 460 from 5th/Grand to Disneyland . For detailed schedule and stops , you can refer to the <URL> for 460 .
Yes , the ferries run both ways , and all ferries stop at both Central/Sathorn and N5/Rachawongse . See <URL> . Of course , depending on where you are in Yaowarat and where you 're going , it might be faster to walk/tuktuk/taxi to Hualamphong and take the MRT from there .
Options I found : Fly directly from Singapore to <URL> for circa 90 USD . Bus from Singapore to <URL> with <URL> for circa 3 USD , then direct flight to <URL> with Airasia for circa 40 USD . So a total of circa ** USD ** . Note that <URL> . I took this bus in May 2015 &amp; it took around 1h45 to do the bus journey at a low-peak time , allow at least 3h if travelling on a week end or public holiday . Fly to <URL> ( Malaysia ) for circa 30 USD , then fly to <URL> for circa 30 USD . Found those prices using <URL> . So a total of circa 60 USD Take the ferry to <URL> for circa 22 USD ( 45 min ride ) , then take another ferry to <URL> with the <URL> for circa 25 USD ( this one is a long ride , 6 to 8h ) . As explained in <URL> " To buy the ticket from Dumai , you need to visit a ticket agent who will sort you out -- there 's no need to go to the port to buy a ticket . " , &amp; there does seem to be only 1 ( yes one ! ) ferry per day . So this means potentially having to stay in Batam overnight ( who knows ? ) . Then <URL> for circa 13 USD . So a total of circa 60 USD All in all , my research seem to always point to taking a plane rather than a ferry ... unless you really have a special reason for avoiding planes ( transporting loads of luggages , transporting a bike , fear of planes , or else ) . Here is another good reason not to take the ferry in Indonesia <URL> Note : you must add circa 12 USD to every flight with AirAsia if you have a checked baggage Note regarding trains going from Singapore to Johor Bahru : There 's no point in taking the train to JB , the new terminal is very inconvenient and services are infrequent and unreliable . Take a bus instead . Final note : there is nothing " special " to do in Medan , so if you arrive before 4pm try to plan your journey to your final destination straight from Medan ( typically using a tourist bus or a public bus ) , roads can be dangerous at night so many transports do not work when it 's dark ( after 7pm ) . The hotel/hostel hosting you can provide more info , it 's a typical thing to do . Resources : AirAsia route map : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are definitely more buses than that ( not a lot more , but still ) , at least in the summer when there are a lot of tourists around , but information is difficult to find on the Internet . There are many different companies and they do n't all have up-to-date schedules on their website . The site <URL> seeks to gather information about public transport in Corsica and has information in both English and French . I recommend reading their <URL> . From <URL> , they list two buses a day in the summer ( late June to early September ) , taking a little over 2 hours . In the winter there 's only a single weekday bus . Alternatively there is a <URL> , taking a little over 3 hours , with 2 connections a day at different times in <URL> and <URL> . From <URL> , it 's not so good . The only suggestion is a combination of three buses , the last one being the Bastia to Calvi bus -- Bonifacio-Bastia-Calvi would be easier than Bonifacio-Calvi-Bastia . You 'd take the early morning or midday <URL> ( do check because that company have n't announced their July schedule yet ! ) , then <URL> and change as Casamozza for the <URL> , taking about 5 hours total .
I had to do something slightly similar once with some half-empty suitcases that would have large heavy things piled on top of them while moving house . What worked quite well for me was to take large , sturdy , readily available bag-like things such as : Heavy duty bin bags Duvet covers , large pillow cases Sleeping bag liners ... open them out to get a lot of air into them , then firmly tie them shut , trapping air making them act like flexible-shaped cushions . Because these bags are n't completely full , they can be manoeuvred to fill whatever shaped space is needed quite well , and there 's less risk of popping than , say , balloons ( the " bang " of popping balloons coming from inside a bag when a heavy bag is put on top of yours might concern a baggage handler ... ) . Things like bin bags are also very useful for compartmentalising your packing on the way back , so they 're not being wasted .
One time checking a backpack in for Virgin Atlantic I was offered a giant , durable , resealable ( great for security checks ) , clear plastic bag , similar to a trash bag but thicker , with the airline 's logo on it , to prevent any straps or hooks from getting caught in the baggage handling . Since that flight I 've found that most legacy airlines have these . I 've often encountered check-in agents that did n't know their airline had these , but in every case they asked their colleagues or manager and discovered they did . I 've never been charged for one . I 've gotten these in Europe , Asia and North America .
<URL> : " SL " stands for Slim Line . The entire pack , including the carrying system , is designed with a woman 's physique in mind , but can also be used by anyone with a smaller torso and frame . Features of the SL system : A slightly shorter back length ( to accommodate a shorter torso ) . The SL back system with its lower shoulder strap anchor point is a bit shorter than the standard version . A more conical shaped hip belt , which further accommodates a greater arch in the spine . The SL hip belt anchor points are set closer together , and are slightly curved angling diagonally upward . The fins are also pre-shaped so that the fastened hip belt has a conical shape delivering a customized fit . SL shoulder straps are both narrower in width and shorter in length , have narrow tapered ends and smaller buckles . They avoid chafing in the armpits and eliminate pressure points in the chest area . Further , the SL shoulder straps are set closer together . Thus , they stay in place and do not slip off the shoulders . The SL shoulder straps have an S-shape and feature softly lined edges on both sides , allowing them to curve around sensitive areas , and not chafe . Who else can wear SL ? Our SL rucksacks are designed to fit the average athletic female build . However , since not everyone fits the norm it is likely that standard models also fit female users perfectly well and vice versa : SL models fit men with slim builds and younger guys .
From an airport security standpoint I think the helmet should cause no problems in your carry-on . The TSA prohibited item search tool does not mention bicycle helmets . <URL> including motorcycle helmets , which are considerably tougher than bicycle helmets and can be used as an offensive weapon . Interestingly enough , TSA says that motorbike helmets are allowed in carry-on luggage : <URL> The same is also true for other , arguably more potentially dangerous and heavy , helmets including football helmet , welding helmet , lacrosse helmet , etc. . Therefore it is safe to assume that bicycle helmets are allowed too . Now , in terms of carry-on luggage allowance , I think you will be fine . For starters , the combined volume of your small backpack with the helmet attached will most probably be comprised within your maximum allowance . Moreover , I have flown with items strapped to my carry-on backpack multiple times and was never questioned . If worse comes to worse , either jam the helmet inside the backpack , wear it , hang it from your trousers and call it a keychain , or do something so that it does not appear to be part of your carry-on .
Are you after the physical answer , or the legal one ? Presuming he still physically has his license , and it has an expiry date beyond when he will be renting the car , then he will most likely be able to physically rent a car . If he is pulled over by the police , then he will most likely be able to lie and claim that his license is valid , and he will probably get away with it . However doing that will be illegal on many levels . Firstly , when renting a car , part of the rental agreement is that you have a valid drivers license and are legally allowed to drive in the country you 'll be driving in . As his license has been suspended he will NOT have a valid license , and will NOT be legally allowed to drive in the US . Thus by renting the car he will be committing fraud . Next , by actually driving , he will be driving without a license . Most countries ( including the US ) allow you to drive based on having a valid license in your home country . He does not , thus he will be driving illegally . When driving without a license , any insurance coverage he has ( including the rental car companies ( self - ) insurance , travel insurance , etc ) will be invalidated . He will be fully responsible financially for any accidents he causes , and very probably even if he is n't at fault . If he is involved in an accident you can all but guarantee that they will check on the validity of his home-country license , and not just take it for granted that it 's valid . If he is pulled over by a police officer it 's unlikely they will be able to tell that his overseas license is suspended , but if they can then he will definitely be charged , which will not only come with a hefty fine , but will leave him in a very unfortunate position as far as returning his rental car is concerned as they will not let him drive it to return it to the rental company . So can he rent a car ? Yes . Will he get away with it ? Probably . Will he be breaking countless laws and potentially risking prison time ? YES ! ( Driving without a license in California can lead to up to 6 months prison , I 'm presuming other states are similar )
Easily , just go for the <URL> route : You can experience the scenic Bergen Railway , the breathtaking Flåm Railway , the Aurlandsfjord , the narrow Nærøyfjord and the steep hairpin bends of Stalheimskleiva ( May-September ) . The link above is to a commercial tour agency who will arrange the whole thing if you want ( 8.5 hours end to end ) , but you can quite easily do it by yourself , especially from Bergen . Just plan ahead by checking out the train and ferry schedules , as they do n't run all that often ... and consider overnighting along the way , so you can catch some bits without all the other tourists doing the N-in-a-N loop !
end question
start question
Attending an academic conference is what type of travel ?
Annex II of the Schengen Visa Code ( EU <URL> ) includes a non-exhaustive list of " supporting documents " that sheds some light on the categories . Here are the most relevant bits : for business trips : ( a ) an invitation from a firm or an authority to attend meetings , conferences or events connected with trade , industry or work ; [ ... ] ( c ) entry tickets for fairs and congresses , if appropriate ; [ ... ] ( e ) documents proving the applicant 's employment status in the company ; for journeys undertaken for the purposes of study or other types of training : ( a ) a certificate of enrolment at an educational establishment for the purposes of attending vocational or theoretical courses within the framework of basic and further training ; ( b ) student cards or certificates of the courses to be attended ; for journeys undertaken for the purposes of tourism or for private reasons : [ ... ] for journeys undertaken for political , scientific , cultural , sports or religious events or other reasons : invitation , entry tickets , enrolments or programmes stating ( wherever possible ) the name of the host organisation and the length of stay or any other appropriate document indicating the purpose of the journey ; Those are just examples but it 's clear that " study " is definitely out , it means something quite different and you wo n't have any of the documents listed . Both " business " and " cultural " could fit , the former seems pretty safe especially if you are employed by the university where you are pursuing a PhD ( do submit documents to that effect ) . If you are still unsure , you could also simply check " other " and write " academic conference " to prevent any misunderstanding . It 's important to be forthcoming about your purpose and to submit as much relevant documentation as possible but , unlike some other countries , the Schengen area does not have strictly defined visa categories . The category is there to help processing , your visa will not mention " business " or " culture " and it wo n't be checked at the conference or anything ( this does happen in some other places like Colombia ) .
The US Center for Disease Control ( CDC ) <URL> ( active ingredient being p-menthane 3,8-diol ) . There was also apparently a claim that <URL> at repelling mosquitoes , but I 've never encountered any catnip-based repellents . Outdoor retailer <URL> of the pros and cons of common insect repellents , but they do n't really cite research . DEET seems to be agreed upon as the most effective insect repellent , but there are a lot of arguments about its safety . The ATSDR ( a sub-agency of the CDC ) has <URL> about the effect of DEET in humans . They cite several other studies and summarize reports of ( many upsetting ) side effects of DEET use , including this one : A study was done involving 143 National Park Service employees at Everglades National Park to determine the effects of DEET on varying use groups . Exposure groups were classified as low ( non-users ) , medium ( 0.01-0 .52 g/day ) and high ( 0.71-69 .38 g/day ) use of DEET . It was found that 36 of the workers ( 25 % ) reported health effects that they attributed to DEET . These effects included rashes , skin or mucous membrane irritation , transient numb or burning lips , dizziness , disorientation , and difficulty concentrating . Headache and nausea were also reported . A statistically significant difference was not found between reported effects from high-exposure and medium-exposure workers , although the incidences were significantly higher than in the non-users ( McConnell et al. 1987 ) . <URL> from Field &amp; Stream I think summarizes the matter best : there is no real consensus about the issue of DEET , and no singular authoritative voice on the subject . On a personal note , I avoid DEET almost entirely because I 'd rather deal with insect bites ( and take anti-malarials when traveling ) than risk exposure to something potentially <URL> . Finally , I 've never come across any literature that says what medium of repellent is most effective ( spray v. lotion ) . I think the concentration of the active ingredient is more likely to affect the product more than its viscosity . P.S. My uncle has a hiking friend who swears that taking cayenne pepper capsules is the best insect repellent . I 'm not really sure if there 's anything to back that up .
The ferry is essentially the only means of transport that was n't completely overloaded the last time . BART runs a few extra private buses , enough to accommodate 1 % of the 400,000 daily riders . And it 's only in the commute direction . Unfortunately , the Transbay tube is so efficient and so fast that there are n't a lot of good options from other transit providers . Perhaps the best option if the ferry is n't convenient is the " slug lines , " also known as <URL> . People who are traveling solo take on a few extra passengers to get the discount on the Bay Bridge . Obviously , you have to sit in traffic on the bridge , but the price is right . It sounds sketchy but is apparently very safe . As far as getting to the airport , you 're basically out of luck . You can take <URL> from <URL> and get off at the Millbrae station . That still leaves you 2.5 miles from the airport , but you should be able to get a cab from there , or walk if you 're up for it ( the bayfront area by the airport is pretty nice to walk along , but getting there is a slog from the Caltrain station ) . Also , Caltrain does n't run as often or as early as BART . Rental cars are n't cheap , but it may be worth making a refundable reservation in case you need it , and canceling before the deadline if the strike is called off .
There are different ways to compare price levels between countries . The <URL> ( which , in this form , is actually more a purchasing power parity index ; see <URL> ) can be pretty good : Consumer Price Excl . Rent Index ( CPI ) is relative indicator of consumer goods price , including groceries , restaurants , transportation and utilities . CPI Index does n't include accomodation expenses such as rent or mortgage . If city has CPI index of 120 , it means Numbeo estimates it is 20 % more expensive than New York ( excluding rent ) . The only thing that a typical traveller wo n't need are utilities ( <URL> , you 'll be interested in the items that have > 0 in the first column ) , though if utility cost is high , hotel costs are likely to be high as well . There 's also a specific restaurant index on the site linked above . There 's one caveat , though : If there is very little domestic tourism in a country , the costs of " touristy " goods and activities will most likely be de-coupled from the cost of everyday living , i.e. you ' r going to pay more than you 'd expect ) . The inverse ( i.e. you pay less than you 'd expect ) can happen after bad publicity - shortly after a terrorist attack or a natural disaster , prices are usually very low , since there will be many tourists who cancel their plans . In addition to such a generalized index , you may also want to sample specific comparable goods , for example the cost for a night at an international chain hotel , or the <URL> , if you 're into that kind of thing .
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
Munich native again . Of course all tents serve typical Bavarian food . The food can be roughly divided into two categories : warm dishes and proper starters/desserts as served in any Bavarian restaurant and Brotzeit , a German/Bavarian classic consisting of bread or Brezn ( pretzel ) with various spreads , hearty toppings and often accompanied by some kind of radish . Many tents serve special dishes matching their motto . Such as different Ox dishes in the Ochsenbraterei , Steckerlfisch ( fish on a stick ) at Fischers Vroni , grilled ducks at the Entenbraterei and Knödel ( dunmplings ) at the Knödelei . Just to mention some of them . Besides those special dishes you should always get Hendl ( grilled chicken ) and Schweinsbraten ( roast pork ) as warm dishes . Prices vary by time of day : there are special deals for lunch , while dinner is certainly more expensive . For lunch you can calculate with deals starting at about 10 $ while warm dinner ranges from 15 to 25 Euros . Brotzeit is also priced around 10 $ . Of course the sky is the limit and you 'll also find dishes on the menu with significant higher prices . All tents do also serve vegetarian dishes often priced between 10 and 15 Euros . But the real Schmankerl ( delicacies ) are typically not vegetarian . You might instead want to try a sweet course as a main dish . The Austrian influence is strong in this area and results in great dishes . Some menus from last year can be found here ( not all containig prices and none in English ) : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> And yes , the beer price has surpassed the 10 $ barrier . A Bediengeld ( the waitress share ) is already included , but additional tipping is still expected !
There are several kinds of travel-related insurance , sometimes sold as a package , sometimes separately : Travel health insurance : Covers healthcare costs if you have an accident or fall ill during a trip abroad . This type of insurance is mandatory to get a Schengen visa ( but if you reside in a Schengen country or are otherwise exempt from the visa requirement , that 's moot ) and it 's possibly the most important one , because something like an hospital stay can become very costly very quickly . Cancellation : Covers the costs of non-refundable tickets you already bought if you are forced to cancel a trip ( typically for a limited number of reasons out of your control , like a disease , the death of a close family member , losing your job , etc. ) Repatriation : Covers the cost for ( medicalized ) transportation back to your country of residence if you have an accident or contract a disease abroad . Luggage damage or theft : Covers some costs ( sometimes also with some assistance and/or emergency funds ) if your luggage is damaged or your ID , credit cards , etc. are stolen . Liability : Covers legal fees and damages you might have to pay if someone brings a lawsuit against you for something you have done during your trip . Interruption : You get a bit of cash if you are forced to interrupt a trip ( again for specific reasons like losing a family member ) and therefore lose the benefit of any arrangements you made and/or need to buy a new ticket on short notice . Life : Your family gets a lump sum if you die during the trip . Rental car : Covers the bits that are not covered by the basic rental insurance ( i.e. excess in case of accident , theft ) . Mountain/wilderness search and rescue assistance . Even a minor injury in a remote place can leave you with a bill in the thousands of euros for helicopter assistance ( you can also buy an insurance against this separately from ski resorts or alpine clubs , incidentally ) . The first one is probably less useful for you , if you are covered through the " European Health Insurance Card " ( EHIC ) system . Some details are a little complex but it would for example pay for hospitalization elsewhere in the EU . Depending on local rules , some costs might not be fully covered and an additional medical emergency/health insurance could make sense to cover the difference but it should at least avoid any catastrophic medical bill . If you do n't already have an EHIC , check with the local insurer/social security administration if you are eligible and carry it with you . Others ( like the liability insurance or insurance against theft ) are possibly already included in some other insurance contract you have ( e.g. in France , it 's common to have a generic liability insurance as part of a home insurance package ) or through a premium credit card ( e.g. repatriation or cancellation might be covered if you use the card to pay for the tickets ) . In all cases , it 's difficult to decide for you if it 's " necessary " . In some countries , liability or legal insurance is very common , in others not so much . As long as nothing happens , you do n't notice it but if you are faced with a huge liability , you are of course happy to have it . The whole point of insurance is that such events are not very common but can be very costly when they do happen . But for the smallest items mentioned above ( say luggage ) , you can also put some money aside and consider yourself self-insured . Insurers know more than you about the risks , want to make a profit and set prices accordingly . Since luggage does not cost so much and there is typically a rather low cap on claims , you can easily know what the " worse case scenario " is and decide that you have enough money to face these costs on your own .
A VOA for Vietnam requires that your visa request be pre-approved by the government before you travel . The " Approval Letter " is the document the government will issue once it has approved your request for a visa . To get a VOA it is easiest to ask the tour company you are traveling with to organize the VOA on your behalf . There are also some agencies in Vietnam that will organize VOAs for any independent traveler for a fee . If you are going the visa agency route , you might do well to do a bit of research on travel forums like TripAdvisor , Thorn Tree , etc for recommended companies , as there are dodgy ones out there as well . The process is pretty straight forward , you supply the usual personal factoids ( dob , full name , passport number , citizenship , etc ) , pay the agency their handling fee &amp; they apply on your behalf , you then print out the Authorization Letter they send you , find the VOA office/line upon arrival , hang around for a while as the officials take their darn sweet time processing you and then go be the last person to claim their luggage and start your adventure . Depending on the tour company , some can arrange for your guide to meet you inside immigration and help speed up the process , but most leave on your own to handle the VOA process at the airport .
Within Belgium , take the train . Trains are frequent and the major cities are easily reached . Timetables can be found on <URL> , the website of SNCB/NMBS national railway company . From Leuven you have plenty of trains to Brussels , but also hourly connections to places like Ghent , Bruges , Oostende , Liège , Antwerpen or Mechelen . You can buy tickets per trip . If you do that , note that there are <URL> . As an alternative , you can also buy rail passes . If you are less than 26 years old , you can buy a <URL> . It costs 50 EUR and you can do 10 trips by train in Belgium . The <URL> can be interesting too . It costs 6 EUR and is valid for one train trip within Belgium . If you are more than 26 years old , there is the <URL> . It costs 76 EUR in 2nd class and 117 EUR in 1st class . With this ticket you can do 10 trips by train within Belgium . For some sightseeing trips it is possible to buy a combined <URL> , which covers travel and the entry fee . For a trip to the neighbouring countries , you may also consider the train . You can check schedules and fares at the <URL> . Also look at the <URL> . You sometimes find there interesting things or hints for trips . For trips abroad , the bus can be an interesting option too . <URL> is probably the biggest operator and has lines all over Europe . For travel to Lille and Paris , you may also consider <URL> . You can also have a look at <URL> if you want to travel to the Netherlands or the United Kingdom . For travel abroad , you have passes like the famous <URL> . Eurolines has a similar system for bus travel . But these are not interesting for weekend trips like those you intend to do . These are for longer trips , and you really have to travel a lot so that they become profitable . If you choose to travel outside Belgium by train the best strategy is to book as early as you can . This is valid for TGV ( France ) , Thalys ( France , the Netherlands , Germany ) , Eurostar ( UK ) and ICE ( Germany ) trains . For the IC trains going to Den Hague , Luxembourg or Lille , you always pay the same , whether you buy a ticket long time in advance or just before leaving . The same is true for the local trains from Liège to Maastricht . There is nothing like Go Pass or Rail Pass for traveling from Belgium to the neighbouring countries . However there is one trick which can allow you to save some money . This trick applies to the IC and local trains mentioned in the preceding paragraph . You can combine a Go - or Rail Pass with standard tickets . As an example , let 's suppose you dispose of a Go or Rail Pass for travel within Belgium . Now you want to travel from Leuven to Luxembourg . You could just buy a standard ticket at the counter or online . However , instead of this you can use your pass up to the last station before the border and then buy an extension to cross the border . With this strategy you can save a few euros , but not strike a big deal . The extension tickets can be bought online or at the station . I recommend the latter option , to be sure that you get what you need ... If you think that all this is too expensive , have a look hitchhiking or <URL> . These are more economical options .
Such organizations generally only occur by government mandate , as buying insurance ( given that 's what the combined funds are ) is always a cost on a business . There are no overall regulations . You will need to consider where the travel agent you 're buying your travel from is located , and review the latest regulations of that state . The safest bit is always to purchase travel insurance that includes travel agency bankruptcy from a separate source to your travel agency . The most relevant information as to what exists in the USA was off <URL> , and they note that the regulations vary significantly from state to state . Several laws that affect sellers of travel are common to most U.S. jurisdictions . These include : ... Claim forms . These regulations have increased in number and complexity with the greater use of travel restitution statutes . Many states have enacted laws requiring claims forms to be issued to the consumer when purchasing travel services . These forms are used by the consumer to file a claim against the seller of travel , to be collected from the state 's restitution fund , if the seller of travel or the provider of travel goes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to deliver the travel services . The following states have laws for registration , licensing , or bonding of sellers of travel or otherwise governing travel sales : California , Delaware , Florida , Hawaii , Illinois , Iowa , Louisiana , Massachusetts , Nevada , New York , Oregon , Pennsylvania , Rhode Island , Virginia , and Washington ( State ) . However , seller-of-travel regulations are in flux . For example , in 2003 Ohio repealed its registration program . California law was revamped in 2007 to expand the scope of services that are covered by the seller-of-travel laws .
There 's at least two separate facets to consider here . Legally , you 're in the clear . Restrictions covering <URL> and <URL> only require you to declare amounts exceeding EUR 10,000 . Norway , however , being outside the EU , <URL> ( ~ EUR 2,800 at time of writing ) or face a 20 % penalty , although it 's a little unclear to me where/how exactly you 're supposed to declare if coming from a fellow Schengen country . Safety is a bigger concern , as carrying around EUR 9,000 just seems like a really bad idea . The right thing to do would be to deposit it at a Latvian bank , declare its origin and pay any applicable taxes , and then you can transfer it easily to other countries , withdraw it from ATMs , use it to pay credit card bills , etc. . If you wish to stick to plain old cash , then <URL> and <URL> have some advice for you , although most of it boils down to " do n't " . In short , divide your money in multiple places , preferably directly on your body but in unobvious places ( hidden pockets in pants , etc ) -- this way you minimize the risk of losing them through both theft and violent robbery . The latter is n't a huge concern in Sweden or Norway , although one of the three times somebody has tried to pickpocket me did occur in Stockholm 's T-Centralen ...
Annex II of the Schengen Visa Code ( EU <URL> ) includes a non-exhaustive list of " supporting documents " that sheds some light on the categories . Here are the most relevant bits : for business trips : ( a ) an invitation from a firm or an authority to attend meetings , conferences or events connected with trade , industry or work ; [ ... ] ( c ) entry tickets for fairs and congresses , if appropriate ; [ ... ] ( e ) documents proving the applicant 's employment status in the company ; for journeys undertaken for the purposes of study or other types of training : ( a ) a certificate of enrolment at an educational establishment for the purposes of attending vocational or theoretical courses within the framework of basic and further training ; ( b ) student cards or certificates of the courses to be attended ; for journeys undertaken for the purposes of tourism or for private reasons : [ ... ] for journeys undertaken for political , scientific , cultural , sports or religious events or other reasons : invitation , entry tickets , enrolments or programmes stating ( wherever possible ) the name of the host organisation and the length of stay or any other appropriate document indicating the purpose of the journey ; Those are just examples but it 's clear that " study " is definitely out , it means something quite different and you wo n't have any of the documents listed . Both " business " and " cultural " could fit , the former seems pretty safe especially if you are employed by the university where you are pursuing a PhD ( do submit documents to that effect ) . If you are still unsure , you could also simply check " other " and write " academic conference " to prevent any misunderstanding . It 's important to be forthcoming about your purpose and to submit as much relevant documentation as possible but , unlike some other countries , the Schengen area does not have strictly defined visa categories . The category is there to help processing , your visa will not mention " business " or " culture " and it wo n't be checked at the conference or anything ( this does happen in some other places like Colombia ) .
Opaque flights , in the US at least , are far less common than opaque hotels - however they do still exist . The most common companies that do them are the same as for hotels - Pricelist ( " Name your own price flights " ) and Hotwire ( " Hot Rates " ) . Some other websites do them as well , including Expedia and Kayak , however they normally do n't have a separate interface for these , and only show them on occasion after you 've searched for a normal flight . Just like opaque hotels , there are disadvantages of opaque flights . Not only will you not know the airline you 'll be flight ( which could lead to extra fees like baggage fees depending on which airline you get ! ) , but you also wo n't know the exact time that you 'll depart or what cities you 'll connect in - instead you 'll be given a range of times ( eg , depart between midday and 2pm ) and a number of stops ( eg , 1 stop ) . You will also generally not earn frequently flyer miles/etc . There 's a good description of why these fares exist in the answer to <URL> .
According to Visa Waiver Program <URL> ( I assume you can join the Visa Waiver Program ) Passport validity The standard requirement for passport validity is 6 months beyond the expected date of departure from the United States . However , the US has signed agreements with a number of countries to waive this requirement . <URL>
Here are my experiences changing two letters of my last name : First and foremost , always keep a translated copy of the document that explains your name change . Just in case . In my case , it was actually not even a notarized copy . After I got a new passport , I had to get a new residence permit with a new name ( I was living in Germany with an Azerbaijani passport back then ) , but that was a very straightforward process . I also had to get my drivers renewed , also quite straightforward . I still have my diploma with my old name , but it was not an issue when I was applying for grad schools in US . I however supplied a copy of the document explaining my name change . While living in US , I had a social security number with my old name , got that replaced with no problems as well . Overall I do n't remember having any issues due to my name change , so I would say do n't worry about it .
Other answers have given some lists , and talked about the definitional problems , but they do n't seem to have anything like an ontology . <URL> is a large database of geographic names with relations between them . It 's not always easy to get all the data from the website ... you might need to download the database and write your own programs to access it . For example searching for " Hispaniola " finds the island and shows that it 's shared between Haiti and DR , but I ca n't see how to find the link in the other direction ( i.e. , DR is situated on Hispaniola ) .
Because this does not involve providing a service or product , but something that 's very much open to personal taste , I would think it much harder to actually maintain a successful platform in comparison to , say , couchsurfing . That said , these communities or services do exist , though I have no personal experience with them . Here are a few : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( though this one seems to be more about leveraging your existing network of friends )
Can I submit my brother 's bank statement instead of mine ? Your brother is acting as the sponsor , so yes . But to be clear , both of you must submit bank statements . His are needed to establish financial viability on your behalf ; yours are needed to explain your circumstances in Egypt . will they compare ? They will refer to your earlier application and may compare . This should not be a big problem if everything is transparent . If you have large movements in your bank account , they should be accompanied by an explanation . They get very worried when people contemplate a trip to the UK and their bank statements show recent movements that are irregular . That sort of thing does n't usually happen with genuine visitors and hence they start looking at V 4.2 ( c ) is genuinely seeking entry for a purpose that is permitted by the visitor routes ( these are listed in Appendices 3 , 4 and 5 ) ; What type of visa should I apply for ? You want to change from a visit of four months to a visit of a week . In this case it makes more sense to select the business visitor . Remember that the online form has n't been changed yet so it does n't sync up with the visas available under the new rules . So regardless of what you select , your application will be assessed as a ' Standard Visitor ' governed by <URL> of the rules . and , bearing in mind the reasons given for the recent refusal , what documents I should submit ? The <URL> contains a thorough walk-through of what both you and your brother should submit for evidence . That answers your question . If you are following through with the guidance and find yourself with an evidential shortfall arising from the guidance you can always ask another question . Overall I think this plan is misconceived . Your GMC appointment is in 6 weeks . You have not yet studied the rules or the guidance and have not yet begun to assemble your evidence ; it 's further compounded by the logistics of having your brother send you his evidence from the UK so that his stuff will be fresh at application time . Surely it will take him some time to gather his documents , authenticate them and post them to you . Plus you need to get translations for your stuff . Plus you have a refusal to explain along with a compelling change of circumstances to compose and submit . You may wish to ask your brother to instruct a <URL> to minimally provide you with a consultation and doc check .
You should bring your passport , you do n't need anything in addition to this . Northern Ireland is part of the UK , so it 's a domestic trip with no " immigration " or similar . However , almost all airlines require passengers to have photo ID ( for their own commercial reasons - basically to ensure that person flying is the same as the person named on the ticket ) and a passport is the best form of photo ID for a non-European citizen to use .
Many tourists fly in to Montego Bay and take shuttle buses from the airport to Ocho Rios ( and back ) . It has been several years since I made that trip , so I could n't tell you prices off the top of my head , but <URL> indicates that taxis are about $ 120 , with the shuttles being significantly cheaper ( some hotels and resorts in Ocho Rios may also offer shuttle service ) . Be aware that many of the shuttles will stop off for a " rest stop " at a location with tourist shops . This seems to be due to arrangements between the store owners and either the shuttle drivers or the shuttle companies . Expect to have to waste about 20-30 minutes or so coming from Montego Bay ( we did n't stop on the way from Ocho Rios to Montego Bay that I recall ) . From Ocho Rios , I relied on hired cars/taxis , and found them to be relatively cost-effective . Bus service to the more rural areas may have existed , but I 'm fairly certain it was sporadic at best . It is very easy to find a driver who will take you to wherever you wish to go , and wait for you so they can earn the return trip fare as well . The drivers also tend to be good resources for finding out more about the area . A couple of warnings : Always agree on the price for a hired car/taxi before the trip . I strongly advise that you do not consider renting a car in Jamaica . The drivers there are some of the most aggressive I 've seen in the world , and it can be a major hazard even trying to cross a single street on foot . If you do rent a car , be sure you have excellent insurance coverage !
end question
start question
Would 1 hour layover be enough between Frankfurt and Munich if I have a transit visa and my final destination is US ?
In all probability , you should be able to board the flight . I use the expression because this is not a matter of rules , but depends on various factors that can not be predetermined , such as the punctuality of the flight that lands you into Frankfurt , the rush on the two flights , and the number of people doing the transition from this to that . I had a similar experience once while flying Lufthansa from Bangalore to San Francisco . I had a little more time than you -- 90 minutes instead of 55 , but guess what , my Bangalore-Frankfurt flight was late by around an hour . 30 minutes would have been impossible to make the connect but the airlines staff knew that , and they boarded all passengers of the incoming flight that had to connect to the next flight to San Francisco in a separate coach , took them to a special window where they got their passports stamped , and then back onto the coach and the plane for the connecting flight . I think the connecting flight was even delayed by a few minutes as 30 minutes would not have been sufficient to transfer 50 + passengers . It was smooth for passengers , though a little tiring of flying 20 straight hours . One of my two check in bags did n't make it though . I got only one bag in SFO , and the other came to my hotel the next evening .
Do n't worry , you will be able to communicate in Hochdeutsch . One thing you should know is that the German you will hear and read in Austria is not the German you may hear in Hannover . There are some particularities ( <URL> , <URL> ) . However , if you have a good command of German this wo n't be a problem . Moreover , the Austrians when speaking have a typical accent when speaking German . How strong it is depends on the person . If you address an Austrian in German , he will reply in German . But how " standard " that German is depends again on the person . All this wo n't be a big issue as you have a good command of German . To get an idea of the accent and what you may here , you can have a look at <URL> . They even have features on typical Viennese words and expressions ( " Typisch Wienerisch " ) .
All international passengers arriving at Abu Dhabi airport have to go through security once . After that you can check your next airline on the screen or printed boarding pass which terminal to go . There would be only 1 security when you will be entering and after passing there would be no additional security again
If your both legs are on the same ticket ( made in the same booking ) then they will definitely check in your luggage to the final destination . You will just change planes without going through immigration . If you have two separate bookings than it is not as obvious - contact the airline to double check .
You may be able to make a <URL> work for you . <URL> <URL> eg <URL> Eureka ! - There are <URL> allowing 3 or 4 or 5 countries of your pecification . These were not shown in the general menu . <URL> PDF download . Large and impressive . Regional Passes : These are usually 2 country passes allowing N days of travel within an overall period . Adding the extra country may make individual pricing cheaper . Austria-Croatia-Slovenia Austria-Czech Republic Austria-Germany Austria-Hungary Austria-Switzerland Benelux-France Benelux-Germany Croatia-Slovenia-Hungary Czech Republic-Germany Denmark-Germany Denmark-Sweden Finland-Sweden France-Germany France-Italy France-Spain France-Switzerland Germany-Poland Germany-Switzerland Greece-Italy Hungary-Romania Italy-Spain Norway-Sweden Portugal-Spain Scandinavia
The prices for regional trains between Aachen and Cologne are set by the transport association VRS ( <URL> ) . A single trip costs 17 $ per person . A four-trip ticket is available for 61.20 $ , a day ticket for unlimited travel 28.50 $ for one person , 41 $ for five persons . All these tickets are available last-minute at the train station . Other alternatives would be : Schöner-Tag-Ticket-NRW : Valid for a day in all regional trains of North Rhine-Westphalia ( including this route ) for 29 $ one person , 42 $ five persons . Using inter-city trains ( there are n't many ) . This costs 22 $ per person per direction for a flexible ticket . Non-flexible tickets might be available on <URL> for 19 $ one person or 29 $ two persons ( per direction ) if booked early . So in conclusion : For two persons returning on the same day a VRS fare level 7 day group ticket for 41 $ is the cheapest option . The ticket is also valid for all busses and other transport in Aachen and Cologne on that day . As this ticket is valid for five persons you might be able to find three other persons for sharing one leg of the ticket at the station .
As I know , you definitely do n't need the Russian visa if you are not going to leave the ship during stay in port . So you need to worry about it . Russian embassies can help you to obtain Russian visa due your unusual situation , so you can try it all the time - we are all the people , and you always can try to communicate with embassy . Also you should note what 2011 year is a start year for the 2011-2018 tourism campaign , and you have great chance to solve your problem . The nearest shipment from Kerch to the Poti will be tomorrow , so you should n't be afraid for this ship is not available . Also I 'd like to note that this route is direct and has no stops in Russia .
<URL> : I get a new passport , but I have a valid Chinese visa in my old passport . Can I travel with both passports to China without applying for a new visa ? Yes , you may travel with both passports provided that your visa is still valid and the personal details including your name , sex , date of birth and nationality on both passports are exactly the same .
Why yes there is . <URL> . You enter your nationality , destination , and any visas you already hold , and it will tell you if you need a transit visa or not . It also includes instructions for applying for one . HOWEVER : There have been changes taking effect Dec 1 2014 to which countries ' nationals require transit visas . Regardless of the link above , <URL> . Procedures remain the same . Beware that the exemption conditions for visa-less landside transit are slightly different from the exceptions for Direct Airside Transit . As of this writing , the page linked above erroneously refers to a document describing the landside exemptions even from its section about DATV ; refer to the <URL> for the actual DATV exemptions . As a summary ( but check for exceptions ) : You must arrive and depart by air , and your outbound flight must be booked and confirmed . You do n't need a transit visa if you would not need a visa for a tourist visit to the UK . A transit visa comes in two forms : Direct Airside Transit Visa ( DATV ) which is limited to 24 hours and you must remain ' airside ' ( i.e. can not pass through immigration ) and a Visitor in Transit Visa , which is valid for 48 hours and allows you to change terminals or airports . You must have all the necessary documentation for your final destination , including any visas . You are exempt from needing a transit visa under certain conditions . These can be found at <URL> . As of 25 June 2015 , the conditions are : You might be eligible for ' transit without visa ' if : you arrive and depart by air [ you ] have a confirmed onward flight that leaves on the day you arrive or before midnight on the day after you arrive [ you ] have the right documents for your destination ( eg a visa for that country ) One of the following must also apply : you 're travelling to ( or on part of a reasonable journey to ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for that country you 're travelling from ( or on part of a reasonable journey from ) Australia , Canada , New Zealand or the USA and it 's less than 6 months since you last entered that country with a valid entry visa you have a residence permit issued by Australia or New Zealand you have a common format residence permit issued by an European Economic Area ( EEA ) country or Switzerland you have a residence permit issued by Canada issued after 28 June 2002 you have a uniform format category D visa for entry to a country in the EEA or Switzerland you have an Irish biometric visa and an onward flight ticket to the Republic of Ireland you 're travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it 's less than 3 months since you were last given permission , on the basis of holding a valid Irish biometric visa , to land or be in Ireland you have a valid USA permanent residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 you have a valid USA I-551 Temporary Immigrant visa issued by the USA ( a wet-ink stamp version will not be accepted ) you have an expired USA I-551 Permanent Residence card issued by the USA on or after 21 April 1998 , with a valid I-797 letter authorising extension you have a valid standalone US Immigration Form 155A/155B issued by the USA ( attached to a sealed brown envelope ) You wo n't be able to transit without a visa if a Border Force officer decides you do n't qualify under the immigration rules . You can <URL> before you travel if you 're unsure whether you qualify for transiting without a visa . If you need more information than is provided by this website you will need to check with your airline or <URL> . The Home Office 's <URL> also provides some guidance on the subtler points of the rules ( it 's intended for professionals , not passengers , but does explain in great details when a visa is or is not required ) . Changes to the rules activating on 1 December 2014 A Statutory Instrument entitled " The Immigration ( Passenger Transit Visa ) Order 2014 " will make large portions of the above text obsolete . Please refer to the instrument itself at <URL> until further guidance becomes available . The government 's interactive page , which leads the user through a series of questions will take some time to sync up with the legislation ( if ever ) and should NOT be relied upon after the 2014 order takes effect . Note on UK Border Control In London Heathrow , if you fly from outside the UK or Ireland and leave to another country ( neither UK nor Ireland ) , it is possible to transit without entering the UK and going through UK Border Control , you can stay airside . There is no hotel airside , so <URL> , you have to go through UK Border Control . There is a <URL> available on Heathrow airport website . Update 25 July 2015 : Visa Seniority People on any kind of valid UK visa that is senior to a transit visa do not need an additional visa . It means the person ca
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
For the visa part , the rules are ( <URL> ) : Visitors continuing their journey to a third country within 72 hours can obtain a Shore Pass/Transit Pass on arrival , provided : being able to prove to Japanese immigration that Shore/Transit Pass will be appropriately used ; and departing from the same airport of arrival ; or departing from a different airport ( or seaport ) in the district of the airport ( or seaport ) of arrival , provided both ports are located within the same group as listed below . Group A : Airports : Narita ( NRT ) , Haneda ( HND ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) , Niigata ( KIJ ) , Komatsu ( KMQ ) and Yokota . Seaports : Tokyo , Yokohama , Niigata and Nagoya ; Group B : Airports : Kansai International ( KIX ) , Chubu Centrair International ( NGO ) and Komatsu ( KMQ ) . Seaports : Kobe and Nagoya . Group C : Airports : Fukuoka ( FUK ) , Nagasaki ( NGS ) , Kumamoto ( KMJ ) , Kagoshima ( KOJ ) , Naha ( OKA ) and Kadena . Seaports : Hakata ( Fukuoka ) , Shimonoseki and Naha ( Okinawa ) . Group D : Airport : Chitose ( CTS ) . Seaports : Tokakomai , Otaru , Hakodate and Muroran . Additional Information : Tokyo ( NRT ) closes at 11:00 pm.Visa required passengers intending to transit overnight , must hold a transit visa or obtain a Shore Pass in order to clear Immigration . Under those rules , you should be able to obtain a transit pass on arrival at Narita and venture out of the airport .
You can apply to replace a lost I-94 by filing <URL> . It 's very expensive though . It might be worth checking the <URL> in case they have it there , in which case you can print it out ; though it 's unlikely in your case . How are you leaving the U.S. ? According to <URL> , if you leave by air , you do n't have to turn in an I-94 . But if you leave by land , then you need to turn in an I-94 , so you might need to get a replacement . Or maybe if you do n't turn it in you can try to resolve it out with CBP the next time you try to enter , with proof that you entered Canada or Mexico .
Since you 're not using an agency , you 'll need a credit card with a big enough limit . In order to get the confirmation in order , they will need to get the charge approved and posted to your account . When you cancel , you 'll get a credit from them . Time it so that the debit and credit fall within the same billing cycle to avoid having to make a payment or accrue interest . Cancel well in advance of the flight , do n't check in , and use the same website you used to book the ticket . Booking with a Chinese carrier can be expensive . You 're getting the money back ( probably ) , but there will be a sizable charge ( could easily be several thousand RMB ) posted to your card . You may also incur foreign transaction or currency conversion fees from your card provider , quite possibly both coming and going , and these will not be refunded . <URL> will let you cancel full fare economy class tickets for free , as long as you do n't wait until the last minute to do it . I put together a sample ticket on their site from Ho Chi Minh to Guangzhou , leaving May 7 and returning May 8 . Full fare economy price : ~ 8500CNY ( ~ 1400USD ) . To see the details of their cancellation policy , you have to actually select an itinerary through the booking interface , because the refund policies vary by ticket type . 1.3 Rebooking Fee ( per change ) : free to change/rebook . Passengers will also need to pay the difference in fare ( if any ) . For tickets booked on Air China official website , rebooking can be done through the official website or 95583 . For tickets booked through other channels like Taobao flagship store , rebooking can be done through 95583 only . [ 95583 is a special service number you can call only via a Chinese mobile carrier . ] 1.6 Refund fees ( children 's ticket are subject to the same standard that apply to adult tickets ) : Free to refund . For refunds of partially used tickets , the refund amount will be calculated after deducting the fare and taxes corresponding to the flight segment ( s ) used . <URL> ( emphasis added ) : 10.3 Voluntary Refunds 10.3.1 If you are entitled to a refund of your Ticket for reasons other than those set out in 10.2 , the amount of the refund shall be : 10.3.1.1 if no portion of the Ticket has been used , an amount equal to the fare paid , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees ; 10.3.1.2 if a portion of the Ticket has been used , the refund will be an amount equal to the difference between the fare paid and the applicable fare for travel between the points for which the Ticket has been used , less any reasonable service charges or cancellation fees . 10.5 Right to Refuse Refund 10.5.1 We may refuse a refund where application is made after the expiry of the validity of the Ticket . 10.5.2 We may refuse a refund on a Ticket which has been presented to us , or to Government officials , as evidence of intention to depart from a country , unless you establish to our satisfaction that you have permission to remain in the country or that you will depart from that country by another carrier or another means of transport . That last bit is most likely intended for trying to cancel the return trip after arriving in China , but could technically be employed in your case . The Air China website is actually quite good as Chinese e-commerce platforms go . To cancel , <URL> , click the cancel tab , enter your information , and confirm through . If there 's some problem with the site , it should n't be an issue getting English language <URL> , but you may need to make an international call as I do n't know if the <URL> have English speaking reps. You can probably also cancel by logging in and viewing your details , but I ca n't verify that at this time . For a much lesser charge , ITA Matrix lists China Southern as the cheapest carrier at ~ 7m VND ( ~ 325 USD ) ( same dates and airports ) . <URL> does n't list anything terribly specific either way about cancellations , though it does sound relatively reasonable . After actually picking out an itinerary on their site , I was able to find this ( translation by Google ; no link as it 's JSP generated ) : Cancel Totally unused tickets Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 20.00 ( usd ) . Partially used ticket Cancellation / Refund charges of $ 40.00 ( usd ) . <URL> . They 're a reputable site for English language booking of transportation within China . The copyright notice at the bottom says 2010 , so I do n't know if the data is out of date . According to them , most of the carriers charge a 5 % cancellation fee assuming you cancel well in advance and are flying a full class economy fare . Discounted fares have much steeper cancellation penalties . I have not vetted most of this information , but it matches my experiences with Air China and China Eastern . I also do n't cancel flights much , so take that for what it 's worth .
No . An F-1 visa is valid for study . You can only use it to enter the US when you are properly enrolled at an authorized institution and they have indicated this status in the <URL> database . When you arrive at the port of entry , the officer will check the database and you may well be denied entry . If your nationality is such that you need a visa to transit the United States , you 'll need to apply for a new visa .
IAD is indeed a dreadful airport . A new train system has very slightly improved matters . From the exit past customs to the furthest gate at remote terminals can take 20 minutes easily . You will miss your connection if ( a ) your incoming flight is late , ( b ) the Border entry officer hassles you , ( c ) your luggage , which I believe you will have to re-check , is slow . For international flights , the luggage at least is not usually a problem . However , you will make your flight with a reasonable quantum of luck . Although the computer should know , tell the customer service personnel that you are transferring : they may hold the Buffalo flight a few minutes . Now , yes , if you are on a continuous ticket , Lufthansa will be responsible for rebooking you . Unfortunately , I only see one non-stop a day IAD-BUF , so you will end up on some circuitous route . Check the schedule for your flight day to know what options to ask them to rebook on .
As an Indian national with a US Visa transiting a French airport you do not generally require a visa , as you can TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) . Presuming you are passing through Paris CDG airport , then this is true even if you have to change terminals as there is an air-side bus . ( At Paris ORY airport some transfers can not be made airside and will require a visa ) . However TWOV will NOT allow you to enter the country , and the Eiffel tower is not even slightly visible from either airport ! Thus to visit the Eiffel Tower - or any other part of Paris - you will require a visa . As you are planning to leave the airport , you are most likely after a Schengen " Short Stay " visa , which will have to be issued by a French embassy due to the only country you 're planning to visit being France . Unfortunately this means that it 'll end up being a relatively expensive visit to La Tour Eiffel .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
The process of transferring from an international flight into the US to a domestic flight is largely the same , regardless of which US airport you go through . The first thing you 'll do is go through immigration . Last time I was in Dulles I had to stand in line for this for about 40 minutes . If your visa is in order , the actual process only takes a minute or two . If there is an issue with it , this can take quite some time . Twice I 've been sent to ' the office ' for follow up questions . It has never taken more than a half hour though . Once you clear immigration , you pick up your luggage . Typically , your luggage will be on the baggage carousel by the time you clear immigration . You will always need to claim your luggage at this point . Even if it was checked through to your final destination . You then proceed through customs with your luggage ( this is why you need to claim it , since you go through customs here , not at your final destination ) . If your luggage was checked through to your final destination , there is usually a baggage re-check soon after you clear customs . They are intended for travelers such as yourself so you do n't have to haul the luggage to your airline 's check-in counter and baggage drop area which is possibly in another terminal ( although in your case , you wont need to change terminals ) . If your luggage is not checked through to your final destination , proceed to your airline 's check-in counters . You can also do this even if your luggage was checked through and you missed the baggage re-check . You may also need to claim your boarding pass from your airline 's check-in counters . Once you 've dropped off your luggage and you have your boarding pass , proceed to your gate , passing through security . When you clear customs , you will be on the ground floor , check-in counters are two floors up . See <URL> for more details . If you already have your boarding pass and use the baggage re-check , then you can proceed through security immediately , follow signs " TO ALL GATES " . See also this page on <URL> . Overall , this process will take at least 1 hour , more likely 1,5 hours . 3.5 hours should be plenty unless there is an issue with your visa .
There is really very little difference between two crossings that take about 5 minutes to cross . In all seriousness , this is really akin to asking , " Should I take 7 Mile Road or 8 Mile ? " Fundamentally , you are n't going to remember either . The <URL> always struck me as the bigger , rougher cousin - the one that felt more like a war zone ( which , of course , in downtown Detroit is relative ) - but clearly the bigger of the two . Windsor is just a little place for casinos to cater to Americans who ca n't gamble in Detroit . As the bigger of the two crossings , the customs officials will be slightly more experienced , perhaps , but not enough to make a hill of beans difference . In contrast , the <URL> is a little more upscale , and a little less congested , but only somewhat so . Detroit generally gets nicer as you move North ( Bloomfield Hills , Gross Point ) , but ( and I say this as a person whose parents are from Detroit ) , it 's still Detroit . ( Okay , " Detroit-ish " ) . Additionally , the speed limits are a little higher in the US , and the Blue Water is closer to London so during rush hour , you might save a few minutes . On the other hand , once you 're out of Windsor , you 're just in farm country , so you may be able to pick up a little bit of time if there are n't any RCMP . Really , the only question between the two , assuming the distances are equal , is " Do I prefer inner city Detroit or norther suburban Detroit ? " And trust me , it ai n't that big a deal .
end question
start question
Six month business visa for work and leisure ?
I think you should not have any problem roaming around India on a valid business visa . Most places in India welcome foreigners and very rarely you will be stopped and asked for valid visa . if you carry your passport and visa copies along with you at all times - you should be fine .
The answer to your question is yes you will need a transit visa but in Vienna rather than in Germany . According to <URL> you do n't need a visa since you 're a holder of the US Visa : Exceptions : Nationals from the above list are entitled to transit through the international transit zones without an airport transit visa : If they hold a valid visa for the United States of America According to the Austrian foreign ministry you as an Indian citizen would not have required a visa if you were staying within the <URL> . This however does n't apply in your case since your connecting flight is " domestic " so to speak , so a transit visa will be necessary for Vienna airport rather then Frankfurt .
I was searching on the internet and I found this <URL> from the Embassy of Macedonia , Berlin <URL> In this document , it is mentioned that , Any foreign national , holder of valid travel document of a third country , who is required to have visa for entry in the Republic of Macedonia , may enter the territory of the Republic of Macedonia without having to acquire Macedonian visa , if the foreigner has a permanent residence in EU or Schengen member state This confirms that you can enter Macedonia without having a Macedonian visa if you have a valid passport and a permanent EU Residence Permit . Note : The residence permit that you have must be permanent . What is a Permanent residence permit ? A permanent residence permit is an EU residence permit with unlimited validity . If you have an expiry on your residence permit , then it is not a permanent residence permit and it is not sufficient .
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
I do n't see anywhere on the <URL> that they do n't or wo n't do visas for citizens of other countries . As a matter of fact if you look at the <URL> you will see that they still do B1 and B2 visas with full application so that means that you can apply for a visa in Stockholm even though you are not a Swedish citizen just read the requirements in the <URL> and <URL> to see what you need to get a visa .
In at least western Canada the thing to do is tree planting . Disagreeable but always in demand and used as a backup when you ca n't get a real job . There seem to be plenty of websites on the topic : <URL> <URL> <URL>
There is <URL> , which if you are eligible makes it really easy to work in Canada as a US citizen . But the provisions in NAFTA do n't apply to most people . " NAFTA applies to four specific categories of business people : business visitors , professionals , intra-company transferees , and traders and investors . " " Professionals " is defined pretty narrowly ; the majority of people would not fit into those four categories . You ca n't just go up and work on a farm or in a restaurant or something . ( Computer programming would be eligible for example ) . If you 're not covered by NAFTA , you 'll need a <URL> . Exceptions are made for those working for foreign companies and such as well , such as airline workers ; it would be silly for them to need a work visa every time they were on a Canada-bound flight . See <URL> for more details on that . There 's a <URL> page that leads to some good info , such as <URL> . In general , you need to have a company willing to hire you to sponsor you through this process . You can go as a visitor and find work , but normally would have to leave the country and re-enter on the work visa before starting work . The <URL> says that you ca n't apply from within Canada unless you are switching jobs or are a student in Canada , but again I think you should be able to leave and re-enter .
After a quick look on PubMed , I found a meta-study on the effects of melatonin in various contexts , published in Nutrition Journal ( it 's open access , so the article is freely accessible without any kind of academic subscription ) . It makes a " weak recommendation in favor of melatonin use for rebalancing the sleep-wake cycle in people with jet lag . " Here are the meta-study 's results concerning jet lag ( emphasis mine ) : Eight [ 37 -- 44 ] RCTs with 972 total participants characterized melatonin use for counteracting jet lag . Almost all of the studies were of high ( + ) quality [ 37 , 39 -- 44 ] , with the exception of one poor ( − ) quality study [ 38 ] , which favored neither melatonin nor control , despite a large sample size ( n = 339 ) . Of the seven high ( + ) quality studies , one [ 40 ] favored neither melatonin nor control . The remaining six [ 37 , 39 , 41 -- 44 ] RCTs favored melatonin , including two [ 42 , 43 ] large studies ( n = 320 [ 44 ] and n = 160 [ 41 ] ) and one [ 39 ] which noted a limitation that melatonin increased tiredness the next morning . Melatonin appears to be relatively safe based on the six [ 38 , 39 , 41 -- 44 ] studies that reported adverse events , citing occasional , but not serious adverse events and interactions . Based on the high quality and favorable results reported , the [ subject matter experts ] concluded that in a jet lagged population , further research may have an impact on the confidence in the estimate of the effect , and as such , provide a weak recommendation in favor of melatonin use for rebalancing the sleep-wake cycle in people with jet lag . Source : Costello , R. B. , Lentino , C. V. , Boyd , C. C. , O’Connell , M. L. , Crawford , C. C. , Sprengel , M. L. , &amp; Deuster , P. A. ( 2014 ) . The effectiveness of melatonin for promoting healthy sleep : a rapid evidence assessment of the literature . Nutrition Journal , 13 , 106 . <URL>
Yes . From <URL> : You do not need to apply to change your nonimmigrant status if you were admitted into the United States for business reasons ( B-1 visa category ) and you wish to remain in the United States for pleasure before your authorized stay expires .
It would appear there is no official list rather an <URL> to check with the country you are traveling to . I suggest you ask separate questions for the countries you intend on visiting .
As a UK citizen and a visitor , you 're required to obtain an electronic <URL> that allows you 90 days in Turkey . This should largely cover the time of your stay , which you mentioned was a couple of weeks . Turkey defines work , the criteria for a work visa , as being a paid activity . It does n't have a specific <URL> visa , and you 'll note that <URL> visas require detailed documents about your payment , employer and specific <URL> requirements . So if you 're not being paid , that makes you ineligible for a work visa .
The research you described falls under a type " D " ( national ) visa , but given that your stay is 4 months they have the OPTION of issuing a Schengen . In either case you can travel around the zone unless the visa itself shows a restriction ( which is rare ) . There 's no way of telling what the consulate will do , and you will know when you inspect the visa .
Each person ( including children ) needs to file a separate application . Based upon your text , the recommended strategy is ... Your wife applies first and records her GWF number . She schedules her biometrics enrolment on a day that appears totally open . You apply second and put your wife 's GWF number in the remarks section of the application and explain that you are travelling together . If you can not schedule biometrics at the same time , make two different appointments but show up together and ask if they can accommodate you . No guarantees , but sometimes it works .
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
Tipping in cruises are categorized in 3 ways : Mandatory : Most cruise lines have a preset gratuity amount . The ones I have been on range from US$ 11-15 per person per day , which covers all ship staff : customer-facing and the one 's working behind-the-scenes . In fact this form of tipping covers a major portion of their salaries . Now many travel agencies roll these into their packages . Look for an itemized line reading " Prepaid Gratuities " . If absent , the charge will be applied daily to the credit card you use to place a deposit while on board . Obligatory : You will notice that most staff on reputable cruise liners will go above and beyond their call of duty . This can range from exceptional housekeeping , to some great recommendations at the dinner table . Some cruise operators will place an envelope in your room , where you can place cash tips for exceptional service , and also the person to address it to . Passive Tipping : We were told that post-cruise we would receive an extensive questionnaire soliciting feedback . Sure enough , we did . There were several opportunities in the forms to single out employees for recognition . I am told that the comments and citations go a long way in deciding their career path . So if someone does impress you a great deal , do make a note of their full name .
From my understanding from my stay as under a Schengen visa , the time starts from the initial visit , so if it 's tourism , that 's fine , but it will count against your count of days ( as does tourism in other Schengen countries ) . If you can move the start date of the Schengen visa back , that would be best , but you can use your Schengen days for tourism if you want to .
Since the UK is not part of the Schengen Area , I do n't see how this would be necessary ( and why you would want to do that anyway ) . If the country where you are applying for a Schengen visa thinks that they are interested in whether you have applied for other visa before , then they have internal ways to do that . They do n't need to ask you . There is the Schengen Information System ( SIS ) which in part handles such queries automatically . The UK as an EU member state participates in the SIS and exchanges information with other EU states , even though it is not part of Schengen ( and therefore can not grant Schengen visa ) .
Some friends and I did some searching , asking at cycling shops , etc , and could not find anyone who rents bicycles . So I followed @Berhard 's advice and bought a used one for R$ 160 ( ~ US$ 72 ) and will either sell or give it away when I leave .
To visit a fair falls <URL> , if it is part of your job , when being sent over by a foreign company . Specially if you want to do negotiations or even sign contracts . So you would need a business visa . If the fair you are visiting is an industrial fair such as for machinery or trade , you will need a business visa . However , there is conflicting information for this . <URL> claims that as long as your trip fits into the time needed for a tourist visa , you can get one no matter what the purpose of your trip is . I would recommend contacting your local Russian embassy or consulate and simply ask them .
The work permit allows you to live and work in Canada , on a temporary basis . The requirements for such are on the <URL> online . Note the requirements are above and beyond having just the work permit - you need proof she is only visiting temporarily , for example . However , once you have a work permit , that works as a visa - you do n't need an additional tourist visa to enter the country .
end question
start question
Youth team travel within the US : best way and tips to reduce cost ?
I would recommend <URL> . You can get group rates for airfare and hotels . We use this website to get deals on hotels for our gymnastics team . Good luck .
From <URL> Can a Visa Waiver Program traveler with more than one passport travel to the United States on the passport that he or she did not use when applying for a travel authorization ? No . Each Visa Waiver Program traveler must have an approved travel authorization for the passport they plan to use before they travel to the United States . If a traveler obtains a new passport , they must submit a new travel authorization application in ESTA using the new passport . A processing fee will be charged for each new application submitted .
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
TL ; DR : If you have < $ 1000 - < $ 2000 worth of money , use a travel card ( you can easily get one from Axis Bank ) otherwise use a wire transfer for either your Bank Account or from a Forex Service . I happen to have a BoA account as well , so I do this quite often . In India , in order to transfer money to the US , you have three options , Use your local bank in which you have an account with all that money in it . If you have most of your money in cash , then your best bet is to deposit this in an account because that 's what they will need in order to wire transfer to BoA . This would ideally be the easiest way if your money is already in a bank account . Axis Bank is one of the better bank which you could do this with , because they provide a lot of forex services such as travel cards and all as well . Use remittance services with a leading foreign exchange service such as <URL> . They might be willing to take cash as well but they might require you to write them a check from a bank account . If you absolutely want to use cash , I think a PAN Card would be required in order to make sure that the cash can be associated to your account for taxation purposes . Get a free <URL> or any other service and load that with all your money in it and make a withdrawal using any ATM in the US and deposit all the money in your BoA account using the Travel Card . Now , let 's talk about the costs , Unforunately this depends more on your negotiation skills that anything else , for a small amount i.e < $ 1000 , carrying in your Travel Card would be a better option , otherwise , using one of the two services I mentioned is better . Now , I have gotten better rates from the bank as well as 3rd party dealers with respect to Forex Bank Transfers but typically for larger amounts i.e > $ 10000 you are looking at an additional rate of about 0.3 - 0.5 % . For the travel card , the rate is usually 1 % is the norm . Note : BoA will charge you about $ 12 for an incoming wire transfer whereas the banks I mentioned might charge you a flat fee of about $ 10 or Rs . 500 for both travel cards and wire transfers . As you might expect , these depend on the Bank/Forex Service . If you carry the travel card and you withdraw money from the card , a fee of $ 2 is usually charged by the withdrawing ATM ( in this case a BoA ATM ) and of course to deposit the money into your account , ( maximum of $ 800 per transaction in both cases i.e if you have more , then you need to withdraw and deposit multiple times ) . Lastly , what documentation do you require , Simple , all you need is the Swift Code <URL> of the bank and the Bank Account ( either Checking or Saving , any one is OK ) number you wish to transfer to and although not required , but the branch of the bank will be additional information which wo n't hurt . Basically any information which is required to uniquely identify the transaction to your unique account . To add , I would be highly surprised if you carried a major amount of money outside India in INR . This is not allowed as per the FEMA act and is clearly mentioned on the <URL> , Residents are free to take outside India ( other than to Nepal and Bhutan ) currency notes of Government of India and Reserve Bank of India notes up to an amount not exceeding Rs . 10,000 - per person . More information about the same has also been discussed earlier on this website , check this question , <URL> In case you did though , there is not much you can do with it , because it is ultimately illegal and if you turn up with that sum of money in Indian Rupees anywhere outside India , you will turn heads and you risk confiscation of that money .
The cheapest ( and simplest ) way would be to use National Express coaches ( i.e. bus ) that goes direct from Heathrow central bus station ( 5 minute walk from terminal 3 ) to Cambridge . Tickets start from about # 15 , depending on the day/time and how long in advance you book . I just checked their website - the first bus in the morning leaves Heathrow at 5 am and the last one at 11:59 pm ( although I would n't recommend this one , as it 's not a direct one and you 'll spend almost two hours in Luton airport when changing to another bus ) . The last direct one leaves at 11:35 pm . Hence at 10 pm you should be fine . The journey takes 2 hours 20 minutes . Check for yourself : <URL> Another option is train , but it 's more expensive and there are no direct trains - and it 's not faster .
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
Internet is everywhere in the UK . You can buy a wifi dongle with prepaid sim card in any mobile phone store on any network . The price is reasonable - about # 15 for the dongle itself , which include 1 GB of data . Then you just pay for data packs ( # 7-10 per GB of data depending on the network ) . Most hotels offer WiFi these days . Most small hotels include it into the price , larger ones charge for it . In addition , majority of coffee shops , cafes and even McDonalds offer free wifi for their customers . The long story short - you wo n't have any troubles getting online .
The best way to leave a tip is in cash and prominently with a note . It 's best to tip once at the end of the stay . It makes it more convenient for you , and for them . Do n't worry about not getting the right person - it all averages out , and tips are frequently pooled anyway . However the rest of this answer applies if you are leaving tips daily . Do n't worry about the language issue . Most domestics know enough English to understand " this tip is for you " , and they are used to this so just leaving a note is enough , even if they ca n't read it . The real reason for the note is so that they can prove to management that they did n't steal the money . Again if you leave the tip at the end it 's obvious they were n't stealing , as you were n't taking any money left behind .
ECR is not something the US immigration is concerned with . It is only a formality for India ; and it only applies if you are traveling for work and even then , to a limited set of countries which does not include the US . Here is the official reference , from the <URL> ( I have highlighted the relevant parts ) : Emigration Act , 1983 provides that no citizen of India shall migrate unless he obtains emigration clearance from Protector of Emigrants . Similarly , it has been recognized that certain countries ( currently 17 ) do not have strict laws regulating the entry and employment of foreign nationals . They also do not provide avenues for grievance redressal . Thus they have been categorized as Emigration Check Required ( ECR ) countries . Hence , all persons , having ECR endorsed passports and going to any of the 17 ECR countries for taking up employment require emigration clearance . However , ECR passport holders going to any ECR country for purposes other than employment do not require emigration clearance . No specific mention of ECNR is made on the passports and the ones not endorsed as ECR , automatically belong to ECNR category . If you were to a take any GCC airline , you would be a transit passenger and ECR will not apply . To put it bluntly ; if you are able to exit the country , and you have a valid visa for the US - you should have no issues during your travel and on entry that have to do with your ECR .
Coaches The <URL> carries plenty of information on the topic , including : Coach operators Most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland are provided by Scottish Citylink , Stagecoach , Megabus and National Express offering most of the inter-city and longer-distance coach services around Scotland , including a connecting service between the country 's two biggest cities , Edinburgh and Glasgow . Tickets for these services can be bought in advance by phone , online , in stations and often on board . For busy routes and travel at peak times , such as weekends or national holidays , it 's a good idea to book as early as possible to guarantee a seat . It 's worthy to note that there exist various discount cards for coaches , namely the <URL> and the <URL> . Quoting from the aforementioned Visit Scotland page : Discount fare options If you plan to do a lot of travelling by coach , it may be worth buying an Explorer Pass , which offers unlimited travel on Scottish Citylink network or the megarider tickets offered by Stagecoach , which provide unlimited travel within certain areas . Car Sharing Car sharing is obviously an option too . <URL> for example operates in the UK . You might want to check it out . Trains Train tickets are generally expensive in the UK , unless you have a discount card . I do n't know of your age group qualifies for one , but <URL> allow for many interesting discounts . Should n't you fit the age group , despair not . As starplusplus usefully mentions , the <URL> allows discounted fares for two people traveling together . Seems to fit your case perfectly . Ticket prices may vary a lot depending on the departure time . For some lines , there are multiple train companies offering various times and prices .
Basically , everything is now an " OV-chipkaart " . There are three main types of cards , all with an RFID chip in it : personal ( for people with a discount card , yearly rail card and the like ) , " anonymous " ( for infrequent use ) and disposable ( for punctual use ) . Depending on the card , you can load credit and travel using a pay-as-you-go system or directly load a product like a single trip or a day pass that will be valid on a specific trip or specific network . This system is used by the national train company ( NS ) , municipal transit companies like GVB , HTM ( the Hague ) and RET ( Rotterdam ) , by private train operators like Arriva or Veolia and by other bus companies like Connexxion or Veolia ( those two are now part of the same group but not fully merged as far as I know ) . With NS , paper tickets have been replaced by single-use chip cards ( with a EUR 1 surcharge over regular fares ) . Those do have an RFID chip too but can not be used for pay-as-you-go on other companies ' networks . The GVB day card is also such a chip card . It 's only valid on the GVB network ( metro , bus , tramway , and ferries in Amsterdam ) but , just like the single trip NS card , it is technically a disposable OV-chipkaart . Whatever you do , you are supposed to check in and out using an OV-chipkaart card every time you use public transport ( incidentally , with day cards , you could imagine the card would be valid nonetheless but I have been told several time that you really need to check in and out ... ) . Even one-hour bus tickets everywhere in the country are actually chip cards ( which the driver will often " check in " for you if you look like a tourist ) . So you have to use some sort of RFID card in any case and , as a visitor , your choice is between using a disposable card for each trip/network or an anonymous chip card for pay-as-you-go on several networks . If you choose to use disposable NS tickets and a GVB day card , you do n't need to get anything else . But if you do get an anonymous OV-chipkaart and load it with enough credit to travel on the train , you might just as well use it on the Amsterdam local transit network and you would n't need the GVB card . It 's up to you . In terms of costs , it 's going to depend on exactly where you want to go . With NS , you have to pay some surcharge anyway and the biggest problem is that you need to have at least EUR 20.00 on the card when checking in for pay-as-you-go . So for a short trip like Amsterdam CS-Schiphol ( where the regular fare is EUR 4.00 ) , you would have at least EUR 16.00 tied into the card when arriving at the airport , which is annoying . If you do n't travel a lot in the city , paying single trips with an anonymous chip card would probably be cheaper than a multi-day card ( you pay per kilometer ) but not by much . The main drawback is that the anonymous non-disposable chip card must be purchased for EUR 7.50 ( before loading any credit on it ) and you would then need to deal with the whole pay-as-you-go system . One variant would be to buy an anonymous card , load it with EUR 20 and use that for the way from Schiphol to the center and then in the city . After four days , you would have used most of your credit and probably spent less on the GVB network than the price of a GVB multi-day card ( at least if you do n't travel all day ) . Then you could buy a disposable NS ticket for EUR 5.50 ( that 's EUR 4.00 with disposable card surcharge and credit card fee ) for the transfer to the airport to avoid loading too much credit on your anonymous chip card at the end of the trip . But at the end of the day , no matter what you do , the total cost will be over EUR 30 and the difference between anonymous chip card and GVB day card is not going to be large . What you must definitely avoid is paying the trip to the airport with pay-as-you-go ( except if you intend to reuse the card for a future trip or intend to give it away to someone else who can use the credit ) . The easiest solution is therefore probably to buy single-use train tickets from the NS machines ( for transfer to and from the airport ) and then use a GVB multi-day card for all your journeys within the city . Assuming two ~ 3 km trips in the city a day ( to fix ideas that 's approximately the distance between the Central train station and the Museumplein ) , the costs would be : Single-use NS tickets and GVB day card : EUR 5.50 for each train trip + EUR 21.00 for the GVB card . Total : EUR 32.00 Anonymous chip card and single-use ticket for the return to Schiphol : EUR 7.50 + EUR 0.50 + EUR 4.00 for the way from the airport to the city center + EUR 11.00 for tram/bus + EUR 5.00 tied into the card at the end + EUR 5.50 for the transfer to the airport . Total : EUR 33.50 . Anonymous chip card only : EUR 7.50 + EUR 0.50 + EUR 8.00 for the train + EUR 11 for tram/bus journeys + EUR 16 EUR tied into the card at the end . Total : EUR 43.00 Disposable cards all the way ( buying train tickets with credit card and bus tickets with cash each time you step into a bus or tram ) : EUR 5.50 for each train
I am not from around your area , but prospecting has always been an interest of mine . <URL> looks at the general information relating to prospecting in the US , a link from that article <URL> provides more detail . <URL> has many links pertaining to the rules , regulations and locations of the gold-panning areas in the Pacific Northwest . I hope this helps .
There 's really only one choice : the Karakorum Highway . Regular buses travel between last Pakistani town on the highway , Sust , and Kashgar . The only caveat is that the highway is subject to closure during the cold season , so it is best to arrange for travel before November . Sust is not a particularly nice place , so if possible try and get tickets before showing up there . If you have to wait a few days before the bus goes , however , just head back down the highway to Passu or Karimabad , which are very nice . Getting to Sust is easy since the Karakorum plunges down through the mountains to the Punjab , where Rawalpindi and Islamabad are located , so you can start your journey from there by tavelling to Gilgit , which is the largest town in the Northern Areas and a transportation hub . If you are in the Hunza , you 'll also want to make for Gilgit , unless you can find transportation directly to Karimabad . Wherever you find yourself on the highway , there are lots of buses ( further south ) and minibuses ( further north ) travelling in both directions . Pre-earthquake , it was possible ( if technically forbidden ) to enter Azad Kashmir and visit Muzaffarabad , but this is strictly optional . A note about the bus between Sust and Kashgar : it 's a two-day ride and you 'll be put in a hotel ( likely unheated ) for a night in Tashkurgan after passing through Chinese customs . The hotel price should be included in the bus ticket , but you might want to double check that . There 's also a " park fee " you have to pay to travel through the last bit of Pakistan . It 's very modest .
Right , I 've not been there , but I 'll try and say what I would do , as your food methodology seems to echo mine :) The <URL> would be my first stop if you 've not tried Ostrich meat . Dried , sliced , or in a burger , it 's a delicious meat . Snorkelling sounds pretty great there , and for once you 're not left out with wrecks that only scuba divers can get to ( I ca n't scuba dive , so I 'm jealous ) . There are many snorkel tours , and the one that sounds interesting to me is the Antillla Shipwreck . It is the remains of a scuttled 400-foot German cargo ship that was anchored off of Aruba during WW2 . It was thought that this ship was supplying German U-Boats in the Caribbean and after Holland was invaded in 1940 , the captain was given notice to surrender the ship . Instead of surrendering the ship to the Dutch Marines the captain sunk the ship by blowing up the boilers . I 'd also check out the Arikok National Park - The park consists of lava formations , a quartz diorite formation and a limestone formation extending inward from the coastline . If you enjoy spelunking , there 's the Guadirkiri Caves to check out as well ! Boca Catalina beach is near the aforementioned wreck , has more snorkelling options and great white sandy beaches . Most chains are there ( Subway , BK , Pizza Hut and the rest ) but I 'd be trying to hunt out the local foods - the most unusual sounding being Iguana soup ! Yum ! And if you drink , you 're in Aruba , please do n't forget to try some Jamaican rum !
In my experience there are two situations where people tend to get on the wrong side of the road : After stopping for whatever reason . If you 're thinking about something else when you get back in your car and start driving , you can very easily do the wrong thing based on your usual driving side . Visualise how you 're going to start out ( enter the street ) before you start driving . When transitioning from a narrow ( perhaps a winding mountain ) road to a wider one . This is particularly important if you are in an area with one lane bridges . Here in New Zealand , the road is often marked with a forward arrow in the correct ( left ) lane when the two lane road resumes . It is also helpful to have somebody else in the car who is paying attention to your driving and can let you know if you 're doing ( or about to do ) something wrong . Another pair of eyes definitely helps . For lane changing , well I 've never driven in India so all I know is what I 've seen in pictures and videos . I understand the concept of " lanes " is not widespread . In the US , generally you can change lanes whenever there is a broken white line between the lanes ( assuming both lanes are in the same travel direction ) . Signal your intention to change at least a couple of seconds in advance . Do n't change lanes while going through an intersection . There are likely many online driving tests for any particular US state that you intend to drive in . It might be helpful to run through some practice tests if you are unsure what you need to know . Most rules are the same throughout the country , but some states have particular rules you may need to know ( rules that often vary are things like U-turns and right turns on red ) .
This <URL> . The growing season ( summer ) in Iceland is two months long . The tail ends of the summer are the low points , which means early June and late August . Things begin closing down in September . By Christmas , all sorts of things are closed , all though from time to time the industry tries to bring tourists to Iceland for Christmas . Flying to Iceland around Christmas time is n't cheaper -- avoid the major holidays to save money . I was there for spring break . It was pretty darn cold . There were enough things going to keep busy . The swimming pools are so warm you pretty much can go swimming no matter how cold it is . You can see the northern lights from September to March .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
You can use ola/uber to go around but if you are not able to find any then just hop into any taxi . If you end up going in a local taxi then only pay the amount which comes up in the cab meter , do not pay even a single extra penny . During peak hours the traffic on Mumbai roads is crazy . I would suggest you to keep an hour and a half as buffer to have a relaxed visit to the mall . Bus services in Mumbai shut by 12:00 AM mostly so it will not be possible for you to get a bus at that time .
Layers ! I recently did the Trans-Siberian Railway in May . Siberia in May is surprisingly hot , often over 30 ° C , but in Mongolia at night it can drop well below freezing . I found with a load of the usual t-shirts , about 3 thin fleece jumpers and thin rainproof jacket ( mac/anorak type thing ) I was fine to cope with the cold . And then I had jumpers for intermediate conditions , and they all fold away quite small . Fleeces also dry quickly when washed - very useful when backpacking . Also look into base layers , which pack up very small and do a lot to keep you warm .
No , you will have no issues . There are no passport checks . If you fly , you will pass through an ID check , where you can use your passport . This check is conducted by the TSA , which does not enforce immigration law . There are stories on the internet , mostly from 8 or 9 years ago , of TSA officers referring aliens to immigration authorities for a status check . If this happens to you , there 's nothing to worry about since you are legally in the country , so you will be fine . If my experience is any guide , this is very unlikely . I 've been traveling domestically with a foreign passport for a couple of years now without anyone ever questioning my immigration status . As indicated in a comment , my experience may not be a sufficient guide , since passengers from Puerto Rico are apparently sometimes checked for immigration status . I 've never been to Puerto Rico . To reiterate , however , with your valid immigration documents , you have nothing to worry about .
end question
start question
What should you do if you 're really broke in a country where tipping is customary ?
Not sure if this is quite the scenario you are outlining , but : If you 're really really broke , chances are you wo n't be eating at restaurants or places that require tipping in the first place :) At least in the US , tipping is not the norm ( or is completely optional - eg . tip jar might be present ) at fast food ( McD , Chipotle ) , sandwich shops ( Subway ) or other similar food outlets even in countries where tipping is expected at restaurants . Generally tips are only expected where you have sit-down service ; if you 're standing in line at a counter , no tip needed . At least in the US , the best way to look at tipping in a restaurant is to consider it to be part of the price of the meal . It 's standard for good service . If your budget does n't cover the full price ( including tax and tip ) , then choose a more appropriate dining option , otherwise you 're essentially underpaying and stiffing the waitstaff . So the analogous situation is : if you were in a country that did n't require tips , what would you plan on doing ? ( Probably not underpaying ! ) For going for drinks , check to see if there 's anywhere that has happy hour specials that you can take advantage of , you can often get decently cheap beer ( $ 2 PBRs ! ) or appetizers depending on the venue and time ; or it might be possible to chip in with the others to buy a pitcher of beer so you can still participate without having to over-commit . Just being upfront with the other folks about being at the end of your budget might be the best strategy ; depending on their cultural background , they may well be up for covering you for a drink or so in exchange for your travel stories or as a matter of hospitality - that whole kindness of strangers thing .
According to <URL> ( in Dutch ) the <URL> , you 're required to have a warning triangle and a safety vest . While a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are only required for Belgian drivers , they still recommend taking them as well . Another <URL> says that local police does not always take into account that some rules do n't apply to cars registered in foreign countries . Legally speaking there is a difference between rules that apply to the car and rules that apply to the behavior of the driver . The requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are legally specified as rules that apply to the car , and therefore only apply to cars registered in Belgium . As for the warning triangle and safety vest , <URL> ( in Dutch ) , the Belgian law does not state that these are required to be present in a car , like the other two items , but instead specifies that when leaving the car in the middle of the road , you need to be wearing a safety vest . If you have an accident , you 're required to put out a safety triangle . So you 're not technically required to have these items in the car , but it would be difficult to follow the law otherwise . For the safety vest this was quite literally explained in a <URL> : La modification du Code de la Route ne s ' accompagne pas d'une adaptation de la réglementation technique des véhicules . En effet , si la veste réfléchissante était imposée comme équipement obligatoire du véhicule , seuls ceux immatriculés en Belgique seraient concernés . Il est donc plus logique d'introduire cette obligation sous la forme d'une règle de comportement même si l'utilisation de cette veste suppose nécessairement que le conducteur en dispose d'une dans son véhicule . Translated , this says : The modification of the highway code is not accompanied by an adaptation of the technical regulations for vehicles . Should the safety vest be imposed as an obligatory equipment of the vehicle , then this regulation would only apply to vehicles registered in Belgium . It therefore makes more sense to introduce this obligation as a rule of behavior , although the use of the safety vest necessarily implies that the driver has one in his vehicle . Edit : It has been pointed out to me that Belgian law does also have a rule for safety vests which applies to the car . This is the result of a <URL> . It was issued about 2 years after the above one , in 2009 . As they stand , there is now a behavioral rule which applies to anyone driving in Belgium , and a car equipment rule which applies to any car registered in Belgium . There is no accompanying text for the 2009 Royal Order which explains why the extra rule was introduced after all . I suspect the first one did not give enough legal basis to fine people for not having the safety vest in the car , as it only " implied " you needed to have one . As far as I know , the requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are ( still ) only specified as rules that apply to the car . However , in summary , rather than trying to argue the finer points of these legal distinctions with local police , I would recommend following the advice of the Royal Dutch Touring Club by simply taking all four items . It avoids the need for discussion , the possibility of fines , and they might be useful if you do have an accident .
The specific terms under which an airline will rebook you , refund you , or otherwise are laid out in its Contract of Carriage ( or Conditions of Carriage ) , which in turn may be constrained by regulations in the country where the airline is based or where the flight is operated , as well as various international treaties . In the event of bad weather , most U.S.-based airlines will attempt to reschedule you on a later flight on the same airline . Naturally , this works out better on routes where there are twelve daily departures than where there are one , as with many international routes . Because phenomena like bad weather , volcanoes , sunspots , air traffic control restrictions , and the like affect all airlines , they are unlikely to endorse your ticket to a different carrier , unless the situation is extraordinary , or you are an extraordinarily high value customer to them . If you can not wait two days for the next available seat , they may issue a travel voucher or partial refund . For example , according to the <URL> , bad weather ( " meteorological conditions " ) constitutes a " Force Majeure Event " : American may , in the event of a force majeure event , without notice , cancel , terminate , divert , postpone or delay any flight or the right of carriage or reservation of traffic accommodations without liability except to issue an involuntary refund . The involuntary refund will be made in the original form of payment in accordance with involuntary refund rules for any unused portion of the ticket . American will also reserve the right to determine if any departure or landing should be made without any liability except the afore mentioned involuntary refund . Force majeure events encompass quite a few things that it is difficult to plan for ; from the <URL> these include a ) Any condition beyond UA 's control including , but not limited to , meteorological or geological conditions , acts of God , riots , terrorist activities , civil commotions , embargoes , wars , hostilities , disturbances , or unsettled international conditions , either actual , anticipated , threatened or reported , or any delay , demand , circumstances , or requirement due directly or indirectly to such condition ; b ) Any strike , work stoppage , slowdown , lockout , or any other labor-related dispute involving or affecting UA 's services ; c ) Any governmental regulation , demand or requirement ; d ) Any shortage of labor , fuel , or facilities of UA or others ; e ) Damage to UA 's Aircraft or equipment caused by another party ; f ) Any emergency situation requiring immediate care or protection for a person or property ; or g ) Any event not reasonably foreseen , anticipated or predicted by UA . Given that , I would say the best real protection is purchasing an insurance policy that will cover you in the event of the above situations , either by reimbursing you room and board while you wait or for alternative transportation . Be careful , though , as much travel insurance in fact excludes these very same conditions .
The person calling you will be calling your Australian number , so they will be charged whatever they normally pay for a call to Australia . As you are roaming , you will be charged for receiving the call at whatever your roaming rate is . In most cases , the call itself will actually route via Australia and back to wherever you are ! It 's possible that if your phone is roaming onto the same network as the person that 's calling you is on that the call will route locally , but there 's no guarantee . The reverse case is very different . If you call a number in the country that you are in then you will normally pay a lower rate to make the call than it costs for you to receive a call , and the person you call will only pay their standard rate for an incoming call ( which is free is many/most countries ) . Obviously the exact costs will depend upon your provider and what they charge for calls whilst roaming , but in most cases it 'll be cheaper for you to call someone in-country than for them to call you . Depending on how long you 're going to be there , the best option is often to buy a pre-paid SIM in the country your visiting . You 'll get a local country number that people can call you on , and you wo n't pay high roaming costs for calls that you make .
There is no such visa . Every country has its own entry requirements , which will depend on your citizenship , purpose of your visit , and other criteria . While there are some supranatural agreements ( <URL> being the most significant ) that grant visa holders access to more than one country , every nation considers its ability to admit and refuse foreigners as an element of its national sovereignty and would be highly unlikely to sign on to some kind of global visa scheme like this . Now , it is the case that some passports grant more visa-free access than others . Various groups attempt to rank passports based on this , you can see one such ranking at <URL> . You 'll see that German and Swedish passport holders have visa-free access to much of the world , with many European nations , the US , Canada , Singapore , Japan , Australia , and New Zealand enjoying similar levels of access . As you go down the list , more countries require visas in advance . However , there are still caveats to such access . Even a mighty German passport-holder still needs to complete the online ETA process to visit Australia . People found ineligible through that process will generally need to obtain a visa to be allowed in . You can argue semantics all day ( and diplomats do ) about whether Australia 's ETA , the US 's ESTA , Canada 's eTA , etc. . . are really visas or not , but at the end of the day , they are hoops a traveler has to jump through before they 're allowed to travel to a country . Other countries issue a " visa-on-arrival , " which can be as simple as a counter where you pay a fee to get a stamp . Also note that , even with a visa , pretty much every country reserves the right to refuse entry at the border . Visas are also granted for particular purposes and durations of stay . Even though I , as an American , do n't need a visa to visit the UK as a tourist , I would need one to get a job there or enroll in a university . In addition , the waiver of a visa requirement does n't normally waive the need to comply with other parts of immigration law , so you could still be refused on the basis of a criminal record , lack of funds , failure to demonstrate an intent to leave , etc. . . even though you do n't need a visa . In short , immigration law differs significantly from country to country , and there 's no reason any nation would sign onto a universal visa like this . Even if such a thing existed , any country could still refuse you entry based on its own laws .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
There is no problem driving in Morocco if you can not understand Arabic . I think the impression you get from your Google query is not quite correct . The road signs are bilingual Arabic/French , sometimes even with pictograms : <URL> In cities the signage can sometimes be a bit meager . Combined with the Moroccan style of drive , this makes crossing a city a bit more stressful . For overland travel , the signage is fine . Nevertheless it is a good idea to have a road map .
I would expect most countries to allow exceptions to their usual immigration procedures in cases of emergency ( there may even be some pieces of international legislation about this ) . Japan does , in <URL> : In the case of disease or any other accident which urgently requires the landing of a foreign national aboard a vessel or aircraft for the purpose of medical treatment , an immigration inspector may grant permission for emergency landing to the foreign national concerned based on an application by the captain of the vessel or aircraft or the carrier who operates the vessel or aircraft until the cause thereof ceases to exist , subject to a medical examination by a physician designated by the Minister of Health , Labour and Welfare or the Minister of Justice . ( Note that in Japanese immigration parlance , landing means entering Japan by passing through immigration , etc. )
I have direct experience with this ; not actually in flight thank goodness , but in transit . My daughter was born prematurely in Shanghai last year during a short layover between Paris and Auckland . My wife and I only had limited 48-hour transit visas for China and our flight was due to depart about 10 hours after she was admitted to hospital at the beginning of labour . It 's a long story , so I 'll focus on the visa parts and summarise . I ( since my wife was in hospital at this point ) got proper Chinese visas in our passports so that we could remain in China legally ( this took several visits to the Chinese Exit-Entry Bureau ( EEB ) ) . After my daughter was born , we obtained an Emergency Travel Document ( ETD ) from the New Zealand Consulate in Shanghai . We got a Chinese visa for my daughter to put in her ETD , so that she would be permitted to leave China when she was ready ( again , more EEB visits ) . The ETD allowed us to enter New Zealand ( nearly two months later ) and admit her to the NICU in Auckland ( as , I discovered later , a permanent resident and not a citizen , but that qualified her for fully funded care ) . We applied for NZ citizenship for her recently so she would now have the same status as if she were born here in NZ . Since she was born prematurely , she could not fly straight away and had to remain in a heated incubator with continuous medical care . If a full-term baby were born mid-flight or in transit , theoretically they could travel straight away but you would still probably have to modify travel plans just to sort out the paperwork .
<URL> suggests that many locations in Camden have links to Madness music videos . It also gives suggested tube stations and walking routes to visit these places .
Without any relevant exception I can think of , there is no such thing as an " area between land borders " . A land border between two countries follow in almost all cases a very well defined path and what you actually mean is the area between two border control posts . If you e.g. locate the border crossing on E75 between Hungary and Serbia on <URL> , you can see that the actual border is pretty much exactly in the middle between the checkpoints . So , even if you travel from Hungary to Serbia on this road , have passed the Hungarian checkpoint and for immigration purposes technically left Hungary , you are still in Hungary until you cross the border .
Well , if you want to know something about culture of other country , why not to try solving general problems in that country ? For example : Try to buy food in a supermarket . Or even in a small shop near the center . Try to go and use a barber . Try to find a battery for your cell-phone Try to ask people where is the best cafe they know ( this is a fantastic question , for example , for the Italians ) Try to buy general goods , like socks or t-shirt Try to get <URL> for you and communicate with them who accept you in their home . Walk a lot and use public transportation instead of prepackaged tours ( from <URL> ) Get cash from the ATM - and go into places that do n't have the Visa/MasterCard/AmeEx logos on the door ( from <URL> ) Language barrier is not the problem - if you are polite and smile , people will help you . But never go deep into the city you do n't really know about . Start with 500m away from your hotel .
The level of support offered by embassies will vary widely from each foreign embassy / consulate to another . A couple of standard support measures provided though are : Contact family members to pass messages along Provide details on contact information on local lawyers , and interpreters if needed . Depending on whether such a support system is available for your nationality , get you <URL> or provide loans for financial aid . Probably more important than what they do provide is what they do n't provide . Embassies do not directly provide legal assistance , immunity , or evacuation just because someone is in trouble with the police . If caught in such a situation , it 's necessary to manage expectations on what an embassy can do realistically . While it is n't always possible to know the local laws of a country , not knowing you did something wrong is rarely ever a valid excuse . Use common sense - and as a rough yardstick do n't do anything illegal in your own country - for starters . This is especially <URL> as they could use legitimate less-known laws or made-up charges to shake you down . Embassies will rarely , if ever , provide assistance in these situations unless something seriously goes wrong . Another thing that can help you receive assistance quickly is your country 's embassy offers any form of registration programme , so that they know your details . Probably not very useful or even necessary for short-term travellers though .
As you are flying on Etihad Airways , your baggage will be checked all the way through . You can even avail US pre-clearance which is available at Abu Dhabi to avoid delays when landing in NYC .
As a flight attendant for years , NO , no one tips flight attendants . Flight attendants are usually paid very well , and in some cases , very very well . They are usually paid per hour in addition to a basic salary and many bonuses for having layovers out of town and other stuff . Tipping them would be considered offensive and an insult in most airlines anyway . Knowing many other flight attendants from many airlines around the world I can assure you that the tipping topic is always a source of amusement when we share stories about that . If you want an alternative for tipping them , then a commendation letter or if the airline sends a survey after the flight to your email then give some good comments and mention the flight attendant 's name . Another way of tipping them , is using the magic words and asking less :) This is how flight attendants are tipped .
You should be able to find the conditions on the airline website . Most of the conditions might be different from an airline to an other but you also have rights which are not airline-dependant . The one you might be interested in is <URL> . <URL> for RyanAir , for instance : 9.2.2 If your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours , ask at the check-in counter or boarding gate for the text stating your rights , particularly with regard to compensation and assistance . ( <URL> ) See also Easyjet <URL> pertaining to flight delays and cancellations .
It is not a pleasant situation for both of them - the passenger or the large passenger . It is very uncomfortable for the passenger and totally embarrassing for the large guy . In addition to that , it is uncomfortable and embarrassing for the staff . Unfortunately , there is no one single rule that applies here ; each airline has its own policy regarding this . What you should do before the flight takes off If the large person 's body is invading your space and you have noticed this during boarding , make sure to speak to one of the cabin crew members immediately . Make it their problem . You are paying for a seat and it is your right to get a full seat , not a part of one . Remember , the only time you can report this case is on the ground . It is the perfect time for crew or ground staff to find another seat either for you or for the large person , or to find another solution in the case that there are no spare seats . Once the doors are closed and the plane is moving without you talking about it , you have given complicit agreement to this situation and no one can do much about it in most cases . What the staff will do This depends on the airline . Some airlines make large people pay ; some others upgrade large people to business or first class for free as a part of their services ( the airline I work for does this if no two seats are available in economy class ) . You could get lucky and get moved to a higher class and leave your seat for the other passenger . Either way , your problem should be solved before the plane takes off . Things to keep in mind This is an odd and embarrassing situation . Make sure to talk in private with the cabin crew to avoid embarrassing the sized passenger publicly . Depending on the airline , the sized passenger can be deplaned from the airplane or asked to pay for an extra seat . You may also be asked if you would like to wait for another flight ! Anything is possible if no extra seats are available .
If you are at a land border and inadmissible in both directions , you 'll be taken to a detention centre . In the scenario you described , most likely <URL> . They will book you in and then go over your travel document ( s ) with a view to determining where you are admissible . They will contact the consulate where you have citizenship and let them know you are in custody . Once they have determined the next steps , they will serve you with a removal order . If it happens in Russia , you 'll go to the <URL> ( local magistrate ) and get a five year ban , you can also expect to get dunned for their expense . Estonia has a similar sanction , but it operates under the <URL> . Once the paperwork is complete , you 'll be escorted to a removal centre . In Estonia , it would be at <URL> , and in Russia there 's one at <URL> . In most cases , you 'll be issued a one-way travel document and placed on the appropriate ( civil ) flight . Nobody gets stuck forever in a gulag . If the receiving country has no problems with you , the removing country will give your actual travel document to the airline staff and you 'll get it back once the flight has cleared the removing country 's air space . I 've been in the one at Sheremetyevo ( on the representation side ) , the biggest concern they have is finding out the REAL reason you are in their country . Also , you need to really hope there were no crimes committed in the area where you were caught . I have no experience in Tallinn . Overall , it 's comparable to detention anywhere ; the biggest problem people face is the language barrier in the day-to-day world as their paperwork is getting sorted out . From end-to-end , the process would take a maximum of two weeks . When you debrief people who have been removed , they invariably report that the conditions are civil , and the most harrowing part of the experience was the screwballs they encountered whilst in detention . NOTE : your scenario takes place where there are clear land borders . If your scenario took place at a disputed border , like in Morocco , things could get exponentially more complex very quickly . This answer is scoped to stable countries only and the intervention occurs at a control point . If you are caught deeply inland in Russia , you will be in trouble . Also countries and regions not mentioned in this answer are out of scope . Related : <URL> Adding ... Further to the comment by <URL> ( to whom thanks ) , depending upon how the control point is laid out , there may be a ' discussion ' by the border guards over who has jurisdiction . My best guess is given in the first paragraph . BUT ... For the scenario described , the OP should try to get taken into custody by the Russians ( even if they have to run to the interior ) .
<URL> , according to Wikitravel . There is no road or rail system . The easiest way to get around Greenland is by plane , particularly Air Greenland . In the summer , Arctic Umiaq Line passenger ships provide service to destinations between Narsarsuaq and Uummannaq along the west coast . Of course , if you got a skidoo or dog sled , you could make your own way around ;) Wikipedia actually has more information - <URL> The transportation system in Greenland is very unusual in that Greenland has no railways , no inland waterways , and virtually no roads between towns . It goes into further detail about the few roads that do exist : There are 150 km ( 90 mi ) of roads in the whole country ; 60 km ( 40 mi ) of the roads are paved . Two towns are connected by a 4.5 km road , Ivittuut and Kangilinnguit ; the rest are isolated .
Short answer : The captain has to divert to the nearest airport in case the urgent medical attention will save a life . Long answer : The first thing the crew should do once there is a sick passenger is looking for a medical professional onboard . A doctor will be preferred but a nurse or so will do the job in case no doctor is available . Now if there is a medical professional onboard then he/she will be in charge of deciding whether to land the aircraft in the nearest airport or not ( emergency landing ) . The confusion comes when no doctor is available onboard , usually the pilot will decide to land right away in case of heart attacks or seizures or when the passenger is unconscious . Meanwhile the crew will try their best to save the passenger 's life , all crew members are trained for <URL> and almost all aircrafts are equipped with <URL> , doctor kits and first aid kits .
end question
start question
New Orleans ... With kids ?
Not with kids of my own and it being a while since I was that age , I 'll leave it to you to decide , but <URL> lists several childrens ' attractions in the city : Audubon Zoo ( Audubon &amp; University District ) Aquarium of the Americas ( French Quarter ) Louisiana Childrens ' Museum ( Central Business District ) Storyland Amusement Park , City Park ( Mid-City ) Streetcar rides -- many children from cities without trams find riding on an old streetcar an interesting novelty in itself -- and parents can enjoy the scenery and historic architecture . I can attest to finding Melbourne , Australia and Christchurch , New Zealand 's trams to be quite the novelty when I was younger . When I was older too , but that was when we hired the tram out for company drinks :)
Use <URL> . To translate that into English , use ' Baking Soda ' . Sodium bicarbonate is the main ingredient for baking soda and it has this magical effect on bacteria , especially the ones that live in humid areas . Just put some sodium bicarbonate inside your backpack where it gets humid and leave it overnight , then remove it in the morning and NO brave bacteria would dare to live there . By the way , you can use it on your shoes as well and it will eliminate the bad smell and it 's totally odourless and safe .
Taiwan will have the same week long holiday as the mainland , officially starting on the 18th . The biggest days are the first two : the 18th is new year 's eve and the 19th is the first day of the new year . Things will be very busy . People come home from afar to be with their families during the holiday , so the population density goes up significantly . Whether it will be frustrating depends on you , but difficult is a real possibility . Here are some important things to know : Shops , hotels and restaurants will be open - the cities do n't shut down ; this is peak travel season - but prices and hours may fluctuate significantly from the norm . For example , a small family run shop might close for the entire holiday , while a fancy banquet restaurant extends hours late into the night to attract partiers . There may be special events or sales , or management might raise prices . Anything that 's open will be packed . Offices , banks , factories and the like will be closed . If the purpose of your trip is business , this is the wrong time to go . Leisure or tourist centric locations will generally be open ( new year 's eve and day likely excepted ) , but will be very busy , because a lot of people are off work and go out to celebrate with their families . Transportation services will remain open , but will be quite busy . <URL> during the holiday to ameliorate the high loads , but expect to feel like a sardine . Ticket prices are marked up a lot on account of high demand . Do n't be surprised if they 're sold out , even if you 're trying to book a week or more in advance . If you do n't have a hotel booked already , it will be nigh impossible to get one at this point , and very expensive if you do . There 's a relative lull in travelling during the middle of the holiday . Relative to the start and end , that is ; it 's still much busier than the rest of the year . However , this is a wonderful time to experience the local culture . It simply does not get more festive than the lunar new year celebration . You will not be hurting for excellent things to see , do and eat .
There 's at least a couple of options , actually . <URL> - they run art and architecture tours by design professionals - " a member of Guiding Architects , an international network for architectural guided tours by professionals . " <URL> - " an educational around-Manhattan architecture tour , hosted by architects and members of the American Institute of Architects New York Chapter ( AIANY ) . " - by yacht , nonetheless ! Finally , there 's a handy thread on <URL> about this - a couple of years back , to be fair , but with a few more handy links that might serve as back up options , including self-guided tours .
my name is Brando Yelavich . I 'm 19 and I 'm simply walking around New Zealand without using roads , so on the beaches and coastlines living off the land . You can watch my progress here <URL> ( facebook page ) . I 'm 78 days in and just about at the bottom of the north island . It is going to take me about 1 1/2 years . I 'm doing it solo , so no support crew , just me and my pack . Just the mapping took 3 weeks , to do it depends on the type of person you are to whether you could take this adventure on .
From <URL> NZ At time of rental , the renter must present a full valid driver 's licence issued from their country of residence that has been held for a minimum of one year . If the licence is not in English , then an International Driver 's Licence is also required . New Zealand law requires you to carry your driver 's licence with you whenever you are driving . Renters from China can use a China Notarial Certificate ( CNC ) which is used in place of an International Driving Permit , however their original Chinese licence MUST accompany the driver as well as the CNC . Sadly the page was dynamic but i found the information through the following method : Reservations - > Qualifications &amp; Requirements - > EnterAiportCode : " AKL " - > ChoseTopic : " Drivers Liscence " - > Go <URL> ( New Zealand Transport Association ) * A current and valid overseas driver licence means that your licence allows you to legally drive in your own country . If you are disqualified from driving or your licence is currently suspended , expired or revoked , then you are not allowed to drive in New Zealand . ) The Keyword there is " valid " my understanding is it is not a valid licence without both parts . However find information from the DVLA on this matter is tricky . The <URL> has the same statement as both the NZTA and Hertz .
There are some routes where this is applied ; for example from the ME to Asia there are special exceptions on luggage weight on some airlines ( Kuwait Airways , for example ) . A few airlines I have flown on before have such allowances ; but I have only heard of them for students and repatriation ; but not for immigration and then not between those two countries specifically . A while ago , there was some hope : Singapore Airlines offer a double baggage allowance ( from the usual 20Kg to 40Kg ) providing you are holding an unused migrant visa that states to remain in Australia indefinitely . If you hold a valid visa , you will be entitled to the double baggage allowance on production of the visa at check-in . However I can not find this reference anywhere on the current website .
Exactly what Mark Mayo said , just check Google next time or go to Delhi 's main bazaar and ask in any of the music instrument shops , most of them offer sitar lessons and they all provide sitars for it . Here is a one that was recommended by a fellow traveler when I mentioned this question over dinner : Dhingra Musicals Rajat is giving the lessons in a room just above his shop and it is located at Main Bazaar in Paharganj , shop No. 1086 e-mail : dhingra.sons@yahoo.co.in Cell : 9911043900 or 9818536666 One lesson is 700 Rp and if you want to take 10 , it will be 3750 Rp but you can , of course , <URL> . You can buy a small sitar for 2600 Rp and a big one for around 6500 Rp .
TL ; DR : You need to present your M&amp;M account number at the check-in or apply for retroactive credit for a flight online at miles-and-more . com under the menu point " Mileage request " . There is no real harm in registering at all the frequent flier programs where you are able to earn miles on . The airline has your data anyhow already once you take a flight , so there is no privacy issue ( as long as you do not use the card/number otherwise ) , and you do not pay any fees . Many programs also apply to car rentals , hotel bookings etc , so you can earn miles in several places . To get the miles on your card , normally all you need to do is to present your card/number at check-in and you will get the points . Once you have a certain minimum amount of points , you will get the physical card . If you do not have a card yet , or forgot it , you can simply give them the number or apply retroactively on-line . You can also take a photo of your card and store it on your smartphone so there is no issue in case you do not carry them with you .
There are no international standards for airline transport of musical instruments . Each airline has its own policy as to what it will or wo n't accept as checked or cabin luggage , what its dimensions are or how large or heavy it can be , how much insurance might be required , what the baggage fee would be , and so on . So unfortunately , you will need to check with every airline in your itinerary as to their policies and fees . Bringing instruments on as hand luggage adds day-of-travel concerns as well ; if the scheduled plane is swapped for a smaller one at the last minute , you may no longer be able to take it aboard , or if you arrive late at a connection and all the overhead bin and other storage space is occupied , you 'd be asked to check the instrument or have to be rescheduled for a later flight . If you search around the web you will find innumerable horror stories ( one incident <URL> not long ago , although in fairness it could have happened on any airline ) . But you 'll also find personal accounts like <URL> ; newspaper articles like <URL> or this <URL> ; tips from musicians ' organizations such as the lists by the <URL> ; suggestions from manufacturers and retailers like <URL> ; and independent resources like <URL> . To summarize some of the common tips , consider the following : Contact each airline and explain you will be traveling with an instrument . For example , an airline might allow you to purchase an extra seat for a tuba or a bass , but may allow only one instrument per flight , which wo n't be obvious when you book online . For many airlines it is not possible to reserve an extra seat for a single person , meaning you will need to call and get a seat assignment anyway . Invest in a good travel case . Even though some instruments may be able to fit into standard luggage , they will generate less suspicion from security and more sympathy from gate agents and flight attendants if stored in a proper instrument case , not to mention enjoy better protection . The smallest case that will fit the instrument is advisable ; while that means it has less space for tools or cleaning fluids , those are probably best packed separately anyway as they can cause security screening delays . Purchase sufficient insurance . Be prepared to purchase an extra seat for it , if it is larger than a cello and you do n't want to check it . Some airlines forbid this , others require it . Be prepared and be patient . Bring printouts of each airline 's musical instrument policy . Arrive early and board as early as possible to maximize your storage options . But above all be friendly and patient with all airport , security , and airline personnel ; they can make any traveler 's experience difficult , but passengers with special requirements are an easier target . Within the United States , airlines are subject to federal <URL> requiring them to accept musical instruments as checked or carry-on luggage . One more thing : your instrument may be able to collect frequent flyer miles , but not always , and it 's become <URL> for airlines . Given all of that , it may be worth considering traveling with a backup instrument instead of your favorite , to borrow or rent an instrument at your destination , or use an alternative instrument ( e.g. a travel electric bass instead of your regular double bass ) . Of course , none of these options is a slam dunk , either .
Trains in Japan run on New Year 's Eve , and January 1st . For most of the day , they will operate with a weekend/holiday schedule ; however , some lines expand their service to cover late-night and early morning " <URL> " visits . I doubt that the airport line sees any increase in service . If you search hard enough , you may come across some information about Keisei 's expanded service at New Years between Narita and Asakusa , as both of those areas are extremely popular for hatsumode . Warning : This is not for Narita Airport , but the not-so-nearby Narita Station . This <URL> was made last year on December 4 , so it is reasonable to expect that you can get similar information around the same time this year . They may include the airport in their expanded schedule , but I doubt it .
My initial thought was along the lines of ' but Maori are just part of the community ' - but while that 's true , there are still some options that are actually pretty awesome . And to time with the Rugby World Cup , <URL> - maraes being traditional community ancestral house or meeting venue . There are some good options out there , and I 'll list a couple of them now : <URL> - two marae on site , where you get two nights stay ( at least ) , cultural experiences , guided tours of the valley and surrounding forest , and an opportunity to see some of their arts and culture . <URL> - probably touristy , but the contents look like you really get the complete experience . From the initial Hongi ( nose touch ) , you 'll learn some language , go to a great marae , sleep over in a traditional meeting house ( optional , you can stay elsewhere for extra , but why would you ! ) , great Maori food - and importantly , you 'll share in making a Hangi - the traditional earth oven meal ( has to be seen and tasted to appreciate ! ) , learn about the Haka and try some of the traditional arts - weaving , carving , as well as learn about the history and culture . If I were a tourist in NZ , the latter one really would cover everything , although as a warning - like so many things in this vein , it 's probably a little touristy . Of course , the other option is to try couchsurfing and see if you can find a homestay on that ! However it 'd be more likely to be modern rather than traditional culture , of course .
Immigration happens in Munich ( i.e. where you are first arriving in the Schengen area ) . Two hours should be enough time to pass through immigration and change planes . If both of your flights are on one booking in fact Lufthansa will get you on a later flight to Dusseldorf in case of delays and deems that time enough since they were willing to sell you this ticket .
The Queensbridge Projects are located in Long Island City , and this means you can communicate directly with the cognizant community board for travel advice and other matters arising in that area . The board is called , " Community Board 1 " , and their contact details are Conveniently , they have an email and will be able to provide you with the best times and routes to use through the Projects . With fortune , they may be able to connect you with a local ' guide ' who can accompany you . The Mayor 's will be able to put you further in touch for the other Projects in NYC you want to visit . Source <URL>
I have faced this countless times while travelling in Asia because sellers can be incredibly aggressive in their selling tactics there . The best way to handle this is <URL> : appear local and do n't engage them . Appear local : Okay , there are times when this is not possible . There will be places such as monuments that clearly only tourists visit , or you may stand out very obviously as a tourist due to your ethnicity . The key is appearing local . If you can say " no " to them in the local language , it gives an impression that you could possibly be an expat and thus wise enough to be not an easy target to rip off . At the end of the day , the sellers are only concerned about the payoff for their effort . Giving the impression that you 're an expat who lives in the country is very effective at discouraging them to spend time on trying to convince you to buy something . Do n't engage them : Engaging touts or hardsellers in a market is a very tourist mistake to make . This especially happens at train / bus / airports in some countries too . If you observe locals or expats , you 'll notice that they just ignore them and walk on . Engaging with them in a conversation on what your name is or where you 're from / going to is something that only tourists do because they are afraid of coming off as rude . Do n't be concerned about that ! ' Dress down ' to appear less flashy : If you do n't want to spend money , look the part . Crack out those cargos or short and t-shirts , and give the appearance you have less cash to spend . Chances are touts will get the hint and then you can have interesting chats where they too know you probably are n't going to spend money ( but even they get bored so they 'll probably chat with you anyway ) . All of this depends on your mood of course . If you are n't looking at buying anything , then be firm and do n't let yourself be swayed . There are times though when I have slow days when travelling and do n't mind chatting with shopkeepers . Be explicit . If you are n't going to buy something , tell them that upfront .
Another dual-citizen Kiwi here . Our government actually has pages on this , and whilst it 's fine for you to travel on either passport , it 's best to enter NZ when you return on your NZ passport - otherwise you 're not technically a resident , and would have to have a visa and so on . The relevant links : <URL> <URL> although the first one is really the one applicable to you .
Very , very easy . Any bank in NZ will happily exchange those for you , or indeed as you step off the plane , there are several currency exchange places at all the international airports . Be aware that the airports can sometimes offer worse rates than banks in town - but it depends how much you 're exchanging of course , as to whether bothering with the effort is worthwhile .
If you know something about the history of <URL> a " <URL> " day may be the most suitable for a visit there . Note that the topography makes the climate relatively changeable ( specially on the East coast , where four seasons in one day is not unusual ) . It snowed in Aberdeen quite heavily in July ( mid summer ! ) yet within 48 hours Aberdeen was showing as the hottest city in Europe -- with a higher average temperature that day greater than Nicosia . Your tastes seem eclectic so it should not take much juggling to plan to be indoors ( say a distillery ) during the worst weather and outdoors during the best . It is possible you will face travel delays due to bad weather but you 'd have to be extremely unlucky for that to last throughout the length of stay you seem to have in mind . Though miserably rainy I 'm afraid could blight you trip -- the Scots themselves are so used to that they barely notice but I admit it could be depressing for a visitor used to continuous sunshine . There are though advantages for you . Others do avoid the winter months , so you wo n't be tripping over so many other tourists -- and if visiting to West Coast you would be past the season for <URL> . The astounding beauty , of which solitude seems to form part , of the glens is tarnished ( in my view ! ) when tour buses of noisy visitors are in earshot ! On the other hand I fear you will be out of luck with the <URL> " It has been operating under various names and with different operators every summer since 1984 . " ( though ' Summer ' this year stretches through to October 24th ) . There are however other steam engine services , for example <URL> and that does run in December .
There are restrictions on importing left hand drive vehicles into New Zealand . It is unlikely that you would be able to purchase a new caravan overseas and successfully import it . From <URL> : Are there restrictions on LHD vehicles ? Yes . Most left-hand drive vehicles have to be converted to right-hand drive ( RHD ) before they can be driven on New Zealand roads . For modern vehicles , this is either very expensive or impractical -- especially if the vehicle has a modern frontal impact protection system ( eg airbags and crumple zones ) . The only vehicles that can be registered as LHD and driven on New Zealand roads are those that belong to one of the specific categories of LHD that are permitted by law . Before going to the expense of importing a LHD vehicle , you should check very carefully that your vehicle is either belongs to one of the permitted categories or is capable of being converted to RHD . Otherwise , you may find it impossible to use the vehicle on New Zealand roads . Additionally , New Zealand Customs has an information page on <URL> . There are concessions on taxes for residents importing certain vehicles , which would imply that non-residents may still be permitted to import such vehicles but are not eligible for the concessions . <URL> indicates that motorhomes attract both 15 % GST plus an additional 10 % duty . If you intend to take your vehicle with you when you leave , Customs states : Temporary entry -- tourist motor vehicles If you are a tourist you may import a motor vehicle into New Zealand without payment of Customs charges , provided your intention is to take the vehicle out of New Zealand at the conclusion of your visit . However , even in this case you would still be required to properly register the vehicle with NZTA for use on New Zealand roads . You would almost certainly be better off buying a ( used ? ) caravan in New Zealand and selling it when you are done . This will likely be considerably less expensive and time-consuming than attempting to import a vehicle . ( Even if you were to successfully import a vehicle , you may not be able to use it for weeks or months as it passes through customs , biosecurity , licensing paperwork , and so on . )
It is likely that the establishment first offering pizza in NYC is now lost in the mists of time . Having said that , you can check out Lombardi 's Pizza , 22 Spring Street ( at the corner of Spring and Mott ; also a one-time boundary of New York 's Little Italy ) . Lombardi 's has been operating on the same location since 1905 , and for a pizza house , that 's truly amazing . 109 years ! Take the E down town and alight at Spring Street . A if it 's late . While getting your Nathan 's hot dog , you may be able to root around Coney Island and find something with similar roots . That would be the second logical choice after what 's now left of Little Italy . The other contender , and arguably the best known , is Rays Pizza . To my mind Ray 's is the most tasty and I will invariably have one each time I 'm in Manhattan . But Ray 's claim to being the ' Original ' is somewhat tainted as it began in 1964 , a relative infant in the Big Apple 's pizza scene . Lombardi 's is your best bet , with a recommendation to have a Siciliana style at Ray 's . <URL>
end question
start question
I was refused a tourist German visa . Is it OK to apply for a business trip to the same place ?
As I understand your situation , you 've made quite the mess . You lied about the purpose of your visit on your first application , were refused , and now wish to apply for substantially the same trip , presumably without too much time in between , with a different purpose . That is bad , yes . So you 're proposing one of two options : Admit that you lied before and explain the true reasons for your travel . The problem is that you 'll be admitting to deception , and so your new application will have a major credibility problem . Pretend like nothing happened and make a new application . The problem here is that the consular officer can plainly see your previous refusals and will wonder why your tourist trip has turned into a business trip with the exact same itinerary . This looks both desperate and untruthful . Genuine applicants do not change the purpose for their trip . A history of further refusals will only make the problem worse at this point . The best thing to do at this point would be for your company to engage a qualified German immigration lawyer to help make a new application . You should explain to this lawyer the full details of your previous application and denial .
One journalist did attempt to <URL> - both the artificial labs and the natural spaces . He details it in his book - <URL> if you 'd like to read it . The highlights in nature : Several years ago , the Campaign to Protect Rural England declared a <URL> the most tranquil place in the country ( when the nearby military base is n't doing training exercises ) . 12 such quiet places exist in the US , with more found around the world . A spot in the <URL> in Washington is one , as are places in <URL> in Canada , <URL> in Minnesota and <URL> in Hawaii ( see gallery ) . The others , however , he keeps confidential . On the other hand , he identified a quiet place deep in the <URL> , he suspects other such places in Poland , Norway , Sweden and Finland Recently , <URL> was created to show the quiet spots on a summer day . So that gives some idea for sound levels in the US . As you 'd expect - away from people , cities , and wildlife tends to produce quiet , although windy areas also affect it . Aside from nature , he points out the quietest places are custom built , such as the <URL> , in Minnesota . <URL> : " Group tours are available a few times a year and include a brief stop at the anechoic chamber ( call the lab for details ) . But the facility has had so much interest in the 45-minute challenge that the founder Steven Orfield is considering making that option available to the public within the next year , and is working with the Guinness Book of World Records to establish an official record for the longest time spent in an anechoic chamber . The 45-minute challenge will not come cheap , however , as companies renting the space normally pay $ 300 to $ 400 an hour , and someone trained from the lab must be able to supervise the participants to ensure their safety . " UPDATE : As of this month , Microsoft now officially holds the Guinness World Record for quietest place on earth - <URL> .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
No . You can not apply for a U.S. visa inside the U.S. . A U.S. visa is only for entering the U.S. , and can only be applied for while outside the U.S. Even if you had a visa , it does not mean " for sure that you will be able to come back " . A visa just permits you to apply for admission . It is always possible to be denied entry on a nonimmigrant visa .
If you are traveling with a Canadian passport . From the <URL> : Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require visas to enter the United States , for visit , tourism and temporary business travel purposes . For more information see <URL> , U.S. Consulate Hamilton website and <URL> . . Additional resources for Canadian visitors to the United States can be found on the U.S. Embassy and Consulate websites in Canada . If the CBP officer asks for the purpose of the visit you can tell him that you 're meeting with a prospective employer .
Yes you can , my wife recently applied for a tourist visa so she selected the B2 category , but when she eventually got the visa , it was a B1/B2 visa . The way its worded , it seems you can only use B2 for personal travel , but thats not the case .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
To visit a fair falls <URL> , if it is part of your job , when being sent over by a foreign company . Specially if you want to do negotiations or even sign contracts . So you would need a business visa . If the fair you are visiting is an industrial fair such as for machinery or trade , you will need a business visa . However , there is conflicting information for this . <URL> claims that as long as your trip fits into the time needed for a tourist visa , you can get one no matter what the purpose of your trip is . I would recommend contacting your local Russian embassy or consulate and simply ask them .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
No , you 're not missing things this is standard ticketing policy in the UK . Single tickets frequently cost almost as much as return tickets . <URL>
Normally if you 're stopped or involved in an accident police officers are asking for 3 things : License Registration Proof of Insurance . Normally in the case of the rental from a private party or from a car rental company you do n't have car registration available but you do have a rental agreement signed by you and an authorized representative allowing you to drive the car . <URL> formerly known as <URL> provides this service for you so they must have formalized to process but I do n't have their contract available but I have found a few others online <URL> <URL> and so on . One of the things that could pose a problem is actually insurance . I have n't found any companies in the US in any state that will sell a policy to a non-US resident for a limited term , but a policy holder in the US ( and your friend will have to have one to register the car ) will be allowed to add you as a foreign driver to his/her insurance thus clearing the last obstacle ( this may vary from state to state and company to company ) . P.S. . There have been anecdotal evidence that a possession of a car registration allows you to legally drive someone else 's car but I ca n't find any proof of that so do n't take it at face value .
Considering the airline in question is British Airways , you should be able to change any other flights if they are in the same booking . If you are booked to travel on a flight that is cancelled , you can either : Rebook onto another British Airways flight at a later date at no extra charge and subject to availability OR Cancel your booking and claim a refund to the original form of payment If your booking also includes any other BA flights that are not cancelled you will be able to change these flights at the same time . Source : <URL> The question remains if you get the same class while rescheduling because if you do n't then you will have to pay DOF ( Difference of Fare ) charges . This is an airline specific question , such conditions are subject to airline policy and they are the best place to contact for information . If your flight was n't BA then this wo n't be applicable .
Nope . For new visas , you only ever need your active , current passport - specifically ( if you have two or more citizenships ) , the passport you intend to travel to the country ( in this case Japan ) on . You may be asked for other documentation - e.g. proof of funds , accommodation and so on , but you wo n't need the past passports . They 're considered invalid documents for the purpose of acquiring a visa . Edit : Included <URL> .
I presume you are an Indian national . According to the <URL> in a <URL> , you can use an Income certificate or bank statement : 1 . Eligibility for Applicant Nationals of India with ordinary MRP ( Machine Readable Passport ) / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , who wishes to apply for a Multiple Visa for a stay of up to 30 days and are applicable to one of the following categories : ( 1 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan in the last three years and who has ability to pay the travel expense ( 2 ) Individual who has travel record as temporary visitor to Japan and travel records as temporary visitor to G7 countries ( except Japan ) in the last three years ( 3 ) Individual with sufficient financial capacity ( 4 ) Spouse or children of the individuals who are mentioned ( 3 ) above 2 . Necessary Documents to Submit ... ( 3 ) Applicant with sufficient financial capacity ( as mentioned 1 ( 3 ) above ) a. Application form ( with Photo ) b. Passport ( MRP / e-passport in compliance with the ICAO standard only ) c. Documents to prove the sufficient financial ability such as income certificate , bank statement , or income tax return ( and some additional documents which certify incomes such as stock dividend , pension , retirement allowance , inheritance , lease agreement , real estate register , deed of property etc. ) d. Applicant 's Certificate of employment e . A letter of explanation stating the reason of applying for the multiple visa ( f. if applying from outside of India ) documents to prove that the applicant legally resides in that country If you go through the entire document , you should have all that you need to submit an application for a visa . Good luck .
I 'm going to assume you 're from the UK , based only on the fact the learning to fly abroad is popular for UK residents , since many places offer flight time cheaper than the UK . You 're from Saudi , but I do n't think that changes anything . The southern USA used to be the venue of choice , because of low flight time costs and reliably good weather . I understand that recent visa restriction changes mean that USA is now pretty much off the table for someone wanting to earn their PPL on a vacation . My first recommendation is Canada . The <URL> starts by saying you need a student visa , but then notes that students intending to come to Canada for six months or less do n't need one . I would recommend checking this out before committing to anything . The weather is good , in the sense that flying conditions are rarely poor enough to prevent you flying . ( I recommend summer rather than winter though , just because people mostly do n't want to fly light planes when its very cold , even if the weather permits it ) . Other popular venues are Australia and South Africa . I 'm afraid I ca n't speak for their visa requirements . The schools I found with my brief search were all focussed on CPL training ( even more popular than foreign PPL training since the savings are higher ) . Your search results may vary . If you have a ticket paid to anywhere , those two would also provide you with the advantage of an awesome vacation experience . Be aware that learning to fly is going to occupy you full time for several weeks . While the weather may be nice , you wo n't get much ' vacation ' in the sense of relaxed beach-sitting or sightseeing while you are doing it .
Which country your travel companion applies from is irrelevant to which country you should apply from . Can two persons with same flight ticket apply for visa from different countries ? Yes . Actually , it 's generally preferable to apply from your country of residence . For many countries , it 's even a strict requirement . ( Edit : and the Malaysian embassy in India appears to be an example of it , as @phoog 's answer now shows . ) Both of you should apply in your respective countries of residence . If you were thinking of applying in India , one of the only situations in which you might be able to do so is if you are an Indian citizen . But even then , you probably would still want to apply from your country of residence . It 's less complicated and you avoid the <URL> .
It seems you 're going to have to wait out your ban . India is on the list of visa <URL> , and is n't on the <URL> of <URL> ones . This means you have to have one , whether an eVisa or a sticker . Having a Schengen visa makes you <URL> for an eVisa but does n't exempt you from needing one . It is possible to <URL> the decision , note however this could take longer than your ban period , depending on procedure . HOW CAN I APPEAL IF MY APPLICATION IS REJECTED ? Appeal against the rejection of the visa application is made firstly by applying in writing to the agency who refused a visa . If not receiving a positive response , it is possible to apply to a court for appeal . However , the country is open to judicial review of the visa denial are not outnumbered . Also , often time-consuming court process likely to result in the end of the court against the state is weak . Another important aspect , it keeps open to the objection of a state of law in the judicial visa applicants , this case will be looked at the court of that state . Therefore , it is necessary to keep a lawyer in the country .
No , you do n't need a visa to visit the US . A French citizen can visit for 90 days for business or leisure without obtaining a visa . What you need is a travel authorization ( " ESTA " ) , that you can apply for online . You can apply at the <URL> . There is a $ 14 fee .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
end question
start question
Carrying semi-solid food in flights ?
In short , no , he ca n't realistically bring them on board : under TSA rules , <URL> and thus fall under the " <URL> " restriction of 3 bottles x 100 ml max , and these rules are applied worldwide on international flights . You could still probably bring a few tiny containers of curry and something dry to eat them with ( chapattis , naan , rice etc ) , but you 'd be lucky to get a single meal out of that . " Pies and cakes " are apparently allowed though , so samosas and the like might be OK ? TSA has a <URL> that lets you search for specific items , but Indian food is n't really covered . Also , in general , security tends to err on the side of " <URL> " . I 've had a ~ 120ml tin of canned sprats ( small fish ) confiscated , the apparent logic being that because it 's over 100ml and contains some liquid ( oil ) , it could be used to make a taste explosion or something . Update : Well , that 's the theory . In practice , I just carried some premade cheese fondue mix ( read : " gel " ) through at least 4 security checkpoints that were checking for liquids , and nobody ever noticed . So I 'd go with @Azor - Ahai 's suggestion : bring it on board , and have a Plan B if you do get busted .
It really depends on the shop location and airport layout . If the duty-free shop is only in the international departures zone then they probably do n't set up a tax-in/tax-out process in their cash register . Therefore they have no process to sell with tax . If the shop is in a mixed departures zone or public space then they have a gate delivery process and sometimes do have a tax-in option at the register . Copenhagen airport does - I went to buy some small things there , they asked for passport and boarding pass , I told them where I was going and they just rang it up with Danish tax .
TL ; DR : I would n't worry about it , and would place this slightly below availability of complimentary hand moisturizer in economy class bathrooms on my list of priorities when choosing an airline . Airlines hate to divert planes anywhere , since it royally messes up their schedules and causes all sorts of knock-on effects . When they do have to do this due to terrible weather , medical incidents or whatever , pilots usually choose large airports with good amenities so they can refuel , offload sick passengers to a waiting ambulance , etc , and it 's those same airports that usually have transit lounges as well . Not that it really matters : unless there 's something wrong with the plane itself , passengers typically stay on board and terminal amenities are irrelevant . And since the plural of anecdote is data , here are the four times I 've ended up diverted in my 700k + miles of flying : LGW-TLV , diverted to LCA to refuel because of strong headwinds . Passengers not allowed off , took off again about an hour later . AUH-SIN , diverted to BOM due to sick passenger . Sick pax offloaded , rest stayed on plane , took off again about an hour later . SIN-KUL , diverted to PEN because of terrible thunderstorm at KUL . Passengers were allowed into terminal for about an hour before we tried again . SIN-CGK , diverted back to SIN because of engine problems . Passengers released into gate area while a new plane was prepped , took off about an hour later . And if the volcanic eruption/terrorist outrage/Godzilla rampage really hits the fan and everything is jammed up for days on end , usually airport authorities make exceptions and grant temporary visas to those that need them . But even the absolute worst scenario is being cordoned off in a gate area for a while ; you 're not going to be charged with illegal immigration or something just because your flight was diverted .
Yes . Food is served for free inside all coaches of Duronto Express . The food charges are already included in your ticket expense . With what I remember from my last booking in a Sleeper Duronto Coach , I was asked the choice of Vegetarian or Non Vegetarian at the time of booking . In case you missed it , you could just let your coach attendant know about your choice . Happy Journey !
Those spots are called ' Liftershalte ' in Dutch , Wikipedia has a list : <URL> Do n't expect too much there are only 6 of those , it 's a bit of a gimmick more then anything else .
As a developer of some search engine for the Amadeus ( one of the major companies who provides the air-tickets search ) , I can say : Yes , you can , but you should find the site working with Amadeus and provides such option to the search . This option is not as popular as flexible-dates-feature , but you still can try to search such sites . I 'll do my best to find them : <URL> - use the " Add nearby airports " checkbox and " Customs " menu . <URL> - the same menu , because the search engine is provided by Amadeus
Similar to what Tom mentions , I concur that one answer does n't fit all . But there are many factors ( unfortunately at this point I do n't have much sources for them ) which can be considered , As you mentioned , European and US airports do not operate at night time hours , but I do n't see this as a problem . For instance , DEL to FRA is covered by two direct flights , i.e. Lufthansa 761 and Air India 121 . Lufthansa leaves late at night whereas Air India leaves in the afternoon . So this problem seems like it can be easily avoided by morning flights which can land on airports in Europe in the afternoon . Hegemony could be a factor and to be quite honest , I see some evidence of it as well . Almost all flights from NRT ( Tokyo , Japan ) to most airports in the US are at perfectly good morning timings . BUT , here 's a reason which compels me the most . India has busy airports with heavy domestic traffic . In comparison to airports in US and Europe ( which either have more runways or have multiple airports in one city ) we have relatively lesser number of runways . If you were to visit the airport in the morning in Delhi , you would see clear evidence of this . So to prevent overcrowding of the runways in Delhi , most international flights tend to leave at night . As I showed you an example earlier , there are some ( albeit a much lesser number ) in the day as well .
Most travel insurance policies will cover delayed or missed flights , but you need to read the fine print very carefully to find out exactly what they will cover and in what situations , as it varies dramatically between policies . Most policies will only cover instances where the missed flight was beyond your control . eg , they may cover your train breaking down and you being stuck on it for several hours , but not you simply sleeping in . In most cases the burden of proof is going to be on you to prove that missing the flight was n't your fault , so even if being stuck in the worst traffic jam for 10 years is a valid reason - how do you prove it ? The payout/assistance offered in such situations also varies . Some policies will only cover the price you originally paid for the ticket , which will probably be far less than it will cost for a last-minute replacement . Other policies will cover the cost of the new ticket , as well as hotels for the delay , etc. .
Short answer : No , it will be collected by the caterer upon arrival . Long answer , Airlines do not actually handle catering , the catering companies do handle this . Airlines will have a catering partner in every airport they operate flights to . In domestic flights where the airplanes is scheduled to have a few sectors assignment ( pairing in airlines terminology ) sometimes the outbound flight is catered for more that one sector at once . For example if the pairing contains short flights ( domestic usually ) like going from A to B then back to A the caterer in A will provide double catering to the crew which is usually juices in short sectors , the crew will use the same catering in both legs , but these juice cartons/bottles are ok to reuse and they are not touched directly by passengers . Airlines do the double catering to save money and to make the ground time between flights shorter . Anyway this wo n't work in long international sectors . In long pairings that contains mid/long haul flights where the aircraft will be catered in each sector , usually each sector will be covered by a different caterer , each caterer will offload the previous used carts and supply the flight with new full carts . You can never know what does the caterer do to the excess food . Each caterer have its own policy depending on the company and local regulations . In the company I work the major caterer for the company do NOT reuse any items , they simply throw it . I have a friend who worked there he told me once that the employees are allowed to take from the returned items on their own responsibility . Do not know about other airlines , but some items like soda cans for example are safe to reuse , I guess they donate it or even resell it ! One last thing , airlines do not expect the catering on board to be returned , they supply the flight with food and beverages enough to passengers and crew and may be supply few extra meals just in case .
Not really . You can actually easily check where you can fly from Quito via the <URL> looks like you are able to fly to Guayaquil
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
Officially Qantas allow bookings up to 353 days in advance , although if you 're booking through a 3rd party that can sometimes be reduced down to 330 days which is more of an industry standard . The exact number of days ( or at least , your perception of it ! ) can also vary slightly depending on timezones - Sydney is 10 or 11 hours ahead of the UK , thus it can already be " tomorrow " in Sydney when it 's still " today " in the UK . In the case of Avios , it looks like they allow the full 353 days . Currently the Qantas Australia website is allowing me to view flights up to December 25 , 2013 . The BA/Avios website allows me to select days up until December 26 , but actually looking for the 26th shows no flights available on Qantas . Picking two typical routes ( SYD-BNE and SYD-LAX ) the availability appears to be exactly the same on both the Qantas and Avios websites for the 24th and the 25th of December , which matches what I 've seen before when comparing the two . As an aside , redeeming Avios points for most Qantas domestic flights is an excellent use of them - the redemption rates are far better than even Qantas Frequent Flyer points on the same flights !
Realistically there 's nothing near the station food-wise , with the exception of a Coke machine and a snack machine within the waiting room at the station itself ( make sure you have coins ! ) Even though you may have a 24 minute wait , the process actually varies dramatically depending on how many people are on the bus ( es ) . When the train arrives the buses will normally be lined up outside of the station ( having been used to bring in people to catch the XPT when it turns around and heads south again ) . People generally file pretty much straight off the train and onto the buses . For the more popular routes ( which basically just means the one to Brisbane ) there will be multiple buses , and they will normally load them one at a time , and they will depart as soon the they are full . The last bus will normally not leave until the scheduled time , but obviously the earlier the bus you get on , the earlier you 'll arrive in Brisbane ! It 's also not uncommon for the inbound XPT to be at least a few minutes late ( in fact , I do n't think I 've ever seen it actually be on time into Casino ! ) , so your 24 minutes probably is n't a real 24 minutes ... Your best bet is probably just to either bring something with you , and/buy something from the buffet car on the train ( keeping in mind that they often run out , and they close a while before they get into Casino ) The other option is to catch the night train , which is a train all the way to Brisbane , arriving early morning ( exact time depends on whether it 's during daylight savings or not ) - or just fly which is normally going to work out cheaper !!
Processed pepperoni This is a bit unclear , one paragraph says they 're prohibited and another says canned and unopened pork products are ok . I think you should be careful with this one and leave the pepperoni unopened . Fresh ( chilled or frozen ) , dried , cured , and fully cooked meat is generally prohibited from most countries . [ ... ] Pork should be commercially canned and labeled in unopened containers Unlabelled fruit They 'll need to inspect them even if they were labelled , and unless you can prove they were grown in Canada , they will most probably be confiscated . Fruits and vegetables grown in Canada are generally admissible , if they have labels identifying them as products of Canada . Fruits and vegetables merely purchased in Canada are not necessarily admissible For fruits grown elsewhere in the Americas , you can check the <URL> database . You 'll notice there 's no US in the dropdown , I would be careful with US imported produce , I 've seen Florida oranges confiscated at the border but then again they might let them in . As for packaged fruits as opposed to raw ones , once more it depends where it was processed . <URL> guideline ( table 3.123 ) has all the information . Hard boiled eggs Those should be ok as Exotic Newcastle Disease seems to be <URL> in Canada and few <URL> of HPAI were reported . Eggs and egg products from Exotic Newcastle Disease ( END ) and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza ( HPAI ) affected regions , including cooked eggs , if not accompanied by a USDA Veterinary Service import permit remain prohibited regardless if those items are for personal consumption .
If the airline can make any claim of weather , traffic , or any sort of delay out of their control , then you have <URL> . Sometimes they will offer hotel vouchers for overnight delays , but in my experience this is almost exclusively when it is due to mechanical problems with their equipment . Even if the delays are due to problems on their end , there is no regulation requiring them to compensate you . The only time you are due compensation is when you are bumped from a flight for overbooking . However , sometimes airlines may be willing to endorse transfers to other airlines , particularly in the case of flight cancellations . This is , however , entirely at their discretion . If they are not willing to work with you , there could actually be additional charges for cancellations .
Most major airlines are fairly lax regarding the weight of carry-on bags - even when they do officially publish a limit . Unfortunately for you , AirNZ is an exception . Both Air NZ themselves , as well as the major airports in New Zealand , do frequently check carry-on bags and if they are over 7Kg you will be forced to check them . If your bag looks light then you 'll probably get away with it regardless of weight , but if it even remotely looks like it might be more than 7Kg then there 's a very good chance that it 's going to get weighed and rejected ...
It appears not , <URL> : Making your booking and taking your flight The DEFRA Export Section ( Dogs and Cats ) will advise you of the current documentation and vaccination requirements for your destination . We will also require a health certificate from your vet to show that your pet is fit for air travel . When you make your booking you will need to let your travel agent or British Airways booking representative know that you will be travelling with a pet . Your pet will not be able to check in with you but will be handled professionally by British Airways World Cargo , a cargo booking will be required which can be requested through the local British Airways World Cargo booking office . On the day of travel , deliver your pet to the British Airways World Cargo Office . The travel container will be checked and the appropriate charges collected . Please check local payment options when making your booking .
As far as I know there is no such website or app that allows to book last-minute cheap flights . So you have to use any of the well-known services . In particular , the flight trip between Barcelona and Madrid ( or viceversa ) is known as " puente aereo " ( literally " aerial bridge " ) and in general the cheapest company that operates this route is <URL> ( 13 flights per day ) . Prices starts from 50-70 $ but it depends on the schedule . Also the high-speed train is a good option and the bus is the cheapest option .
Easy , since I 've done this trip . In Yekaterinburg , go to the markets and get some base food . Whatever drinks you want , but vodka will be good to share if you 're the sharing type ( especially in platzkart class ) . Water too , especially in summer . You 'll want snacks , try and not take anything smelly ( Strong cheese , fish that might smell in heat ) . I highly recommend ' fistashkis ' ( ok I 'm awful at transcribing cyrillic from memory ) but basically that 's pistachio nuts . They take a good long time to eat , which is great for such a long trip . If you 're like me , you 'll stop in Novosibirsk for 4 hours . I ca n't remember if that was my choice , or if that was compulsory , but I 'd been there before and wanted to see what I remembered . Immediately outside the train station you turn right up the hill and there is a supermarket a couple of blocks up on the left for resupply . Now , the two things nobody told me which would have been handy . Take a mug , for making tea on the train . There 's usually a place near the provodnik where you can do this . Also next to their room is a sign indicating each stop , and how long you have there . This is invaluable . Look for the stops that are 10 minutes or longer , and be ready to hop off . Almost inevitably , there 'll be a crowd of sellers with drinks , snacks and the like to resupply you on your journey . You 'll get to try all sorts of random foods that you wo n't know the name of - but it 's totally worth doing . And good to share with people in your carriage ! Bonus : Randomly just over the bridge from the station ( and about 3 more blocks ) in Irkutsk is a Papa John 's pizza . Go figure !
LAX now offers <URL> throughout the airport , along with a relatively cheap upgrade for ' premium ' connection speeds . Credit cards are accepted at most ( all ? ) shops and restaurants , and power outlets can be found around the airport . Expect competition for an ideally located open outlet at peak times - traveling with a splitter or power strip can make you a hero to fellow travelers and guarantee access for yourself .
end question
start question
Is there a JFK airport hotel which allows cats ?
Several hotels in the area listed on Trip Advisor as " pet friendly " but only accept dogs . Blatant discrimination ! La Quinta JFK accepts cats and there is no surcharge .
Per stay means no matter how many nights . That said , people who are close to a threshold for number of stays ( and who travel light ) have been known to book two hotels in the same city and move back and forth between them each day to get 5 separate stays out of a 5-night trip . It 's annoying to check in and out like that and I would n't do it for 250 more miles a day , but that 's what it would take .
I actually think I have the perfect thing for you . I made this site to check for when any booked hotels open up , and send you an email/text when it does : <URL> Full disclosure , I 'm the creator of the site . You should add all the hotels that are in that area , and when any of them have an opening , it will notify you right away . Make sure you put all the hotels in there as soon as possible to increase your chances of getting in . As @Krippled Hick says , sometimes if you need a booking for 2 or more nights , one or just some of those nights might become available first . Hotel Room Alerts will notify you when a portion of the dates you need open up . Improving the site is a labor of love for me . Let me know how it goes !
<URL> is exactly what you need . It meshes Google Maps with a list of hotels . You can filter by price , amenities , hotel chains ( including B&amp;B s ) . You can get heatmaps for food , tourism , shopping , nightlife , and vice . Runner up : <URL> . Similar to Hipmunk , with a more conventional list of options . Also see these B&amp;B and Hostel sites with map views : <URL> : Vacation rentals , private rooms , and sublets by the night . <URL> : Hostels
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
If you want to play it safe , your best bet is to ask the hotel . Maybe she can stay for free , maybe you need to pay a bit extra , maybe you need to switch to a double room for those few days -- it will depend on the hotel . You can also just <URL> , and many larger hotels would n't even notice , but the longer the stay and the smaller the hotel , the higher the odds of being caught , and the <URL> .
If you have a choice without any other considerations ( i.e. similar price , time etc. ) , DCA is much closer to the center of the city than IAD . About 10 minutes versus 45 minutes driving ( may vary with traffic ) . DCA is , however , a domestic airport . If you are flying in from abroad ( as you say you are ) , you will be connecting somewhere else in the US to end at DCA . Conversely , IAD has direct flights from many international hubs . Ultimately , I do n't think the choice of DC airport matters all that much for an international traveler . Yes , you save a bit of time using DCA in terms of getting to/from the airport . But , the overall itinerary ( including layovers and price ) is likely to be a much greater factor in your decision . Indeed , to get the best itinerary/price you may also want to consider Baltimore-Washington International Airport ( BWI ) . It is a bit further away than IAD ( 50-55 min drive ) , but if you can get a more direct or cheaper flight there , it may be a good option for you . So , my advice , check out flights to all 3 DC airports . Consider the overall price and the total travel time ( including connections and travel from the airport ) and choose the best flight overall . I doubt the 30-45 minutes that DCA saves you on the ground will be the deciding factor . Update in response to edit Both airports have shuttles . They are privately operated in both cases . DCA is also connected to the DC metro . To take the metro from IAD requires a shuttle bus to the end of the line . Prices going from DCA may be lower than from IAD ( depending on which mode of transport you choose ) . SuperShuttle ( a shared ride shuttle service ) charges 29 USD dollars from either airport to the city center . To reiterate , if you have a choice between two travel itineraries that are otherwise identical in terms of price and travel duration , choose DCA . It is closer , saving you time . You have the option of using the metro . And just getting a taxi wont be an overly expensive option .
I have looked into this in the past and it 's very disappointing how insecure this functionality is in general . The only specific additional security I could find was the Amadeus <URL> which states this : PNR Security Amadeus individual pnr security allows you to set up special security rules so that a pnr can be accessed by one or several other offices . The PNR security functions may allow access to a PNR even when there are no other special agreements in place and can override agreements that are contained in the current security tables . PNR security allows you to share PNR viewing and/or updating capabilities , without changing PNR accordingly . Creating a pnr security element The individual pnr security element is an un-numbered and can only be created by the responsible office . R = For read only access : it is possible to view the pnr , but no updates are allowed . In this case the agent is given an error message at the time any pnr update entry is attempted . B = For both read and write access : full pnr update is allowed , except for change of ownership . N = For no access : the office id specified can not retrieve this PNR via extended security agreements . ( This overrides EOS ) Office IDs can include wildcards . To enable this , it sounds like you 'd have to book via a trusted travel agent who could set these specific GDS parameters for your PNR .
No . Any open fire requires a permit . A campsite might operate a communal campfire on special occasions , but guests are not allowed to light their own campfires . Reference : Icelandic Tourist Board , guidelines for campsites , section 5.7 : <URL> Það er stranglega bannað að kveikja eld á opnum svæðum . Leyfi frá lögreglu þarf ef fyrirhugað er að kveikja bálköst / varðeld á svæðinu . Loosely translated : It is illegal to light a fire in an open area . Permit from the police is required for lighting a bonfire / campfire in the area .
I found a helpful video for exactly this problem - and it 's an easy solution : just put a pillow under your midsection and your spine will be much better supported . <URL>
Here are <URL> that you mentioned . Okay , there are different kinds of accommodation in India and not every place is the same . If you are thinking of going to aforementioned hotel , you most likely wo n't be able to get the price down by haggling , only if you have a discount card or something . Besides , for such a hotel , the price seems pretty fair considering you 're traveling there in November which is considered high season . Also , as Paola mentioned , it 's kinda hard to haggle through electronic media ( not that it ca n't be done ) . On the other hand , if you do want to haggle , choose guesthouses . There are budget ones , that you probably wo n't like ( since you chose that hotel ) , mid-range guesthouses and premium , heritage guesthouses ( that have a five-star-hotel price range ) . In budget ones you can easily get a discount if you do n't mind using some tricks mentioned in the answer to the <URL> . I even got price down from 450 rupees to only 300 rupees and I stayed there just for three nights . You usually wo n't be able to get the price down too much if you plan on staying for a short amount of time . But if you have an itinerary that gets you back to the same city , try and explain that to the manager and tell them that you 'll be staying there again if he gets the price down ; be creative . For mid-range guesthouses , you can usually get a bargain if they have a couple of rooms available . If not , you 'll either have to pay the full price or get a discount from 1500 to 1400 rupees per night . You 'd have to be pretty good with haggling to get a better deal . And I believe that I do n't have to explain that there is no haggling in heritage guesthouses . If you had to haggle , you would n't be staying at such a place . The better the accommodation is ( and more expensive ) , the lesser is the chance to haggle . But you can always try and ask about it and see where it takes you . ( One more thing , not really relevant , but once I managed to get a huge ( and I do mean huge ) discount in the <URL> in Jodhpur just by explaining my situation , asking for a deal and by having luck on my side that time . )
Yes , bags are sold specifically for this purpose . Features may include : being waterproof having lots of compartments to hold many small bottles ( or one compartment with various elastics and such to hold small bottles sort of upright ) having at least one compartment to hold tiny little things like bandaids and safety pins having a hook so you can hang it up in a small bathroom Examples : <URL> <URL> <URL> The magic word is " toiletries " , " wash " , " Dopp " or " washing " bag or kit ( depending on where you live and to some extent your gender , though the bags are generally gender neutral . ) Search with that and you should find a ton . Or go into a department store and take a look in the luggage section .
<URL> lets you do this . Not your average hotel search engine like <URL> but plenty of options there .
In India , a lot of plug sockets look like this they seem to accept plug types from most countries . It 's a shame you ca n't find these everywhere .
There 's no single answer to questions like this , as they depend on what your future travel plans are going to be . For example , 1 United Airlines mile is worth less than 1 cent if you use it to buy a Gift card , 1-3 cents if you use it for many economy domestic flights , or as much as 10 cents or more for some itineraries such as international first class . That 's a factor of over 10 times , depending on what you use the points for ! Specific to Best Western points , unfortunately they are not the best in the industry . You 'll earn 10 points per dollar , but redeeming for a free night will cost anywhere between 8,000 and 36,000 points - so that means you 'll need to spend $ 800 to $ 3,600 to get a single free night . If you instead decide to credit to your airline frequent flyer program , most of their earn rates are per STAY , not per night or per dollar . This can work out well for a single-night stay , but not for a 7 night stay like you 've got as you only get the same number of miles as you would for a single night ! Best Western do allow you to move points to an airline after the fact which will give better rates for a longer stay , but they are done in " lots " of 5000 points ( which turns into 1000 airline mines ) , so if you 've got 9,999 points you can only transfer 5000 of them . 5000 points = 1000 miles , which based on the math above is worth somewhere between $ 10 and $ 100 - depending on how you end up spending them !
Sort of . Every one sort of has roaming though , or per meg data charges . It 's still got to be based somewhere . The closest I 've heard of is <URL> which has a ' Europe Sim ' for this use case . Includes : a Europe SIM Card with $ 10 airtime We 've got the SIM for you ! Our all-in-one replug sim will work in any unlocked mobile device ( including iPhones , iPads and more ) . Simply pop out the size you need and follow your mobiles instructions on how to insert the SIM . There 's no need to worry about which size to order ! Frankly , though , there 's so much wifi around , I 'd personally not bother even getting one if you 're on holiday , but obviously everyone is different .
Actual practice varies widely by country , but there are ( at least ) four reasons why hotels frown on having more guests in a room than you originally told them . Fire code . Hotels and rooms are rated for maximum occupancy : if they get busted for having two people in a room for one , or ( worse ) 101 guests in a hotel rated for 100 , there are serious legal penalties ( for the hotel ) in many countries . Profit . A room for two usually costs more than a room for one , even when it 's actually the same physical room . If you sneak two people into your single room , they 've lost out on extra income , and obviously the beancounters do n't like this . Registration requirements . Many countries require that all foreign nationals staying in hotels have to be registered , and it may be a violation of the law to have unregistered guests . ( Not necessarily applicable if your newfound friend is a local , although a few particularly paranoid countries register all hotel guests . ) Laws prohibiting cohabitation . Not much of a problem in the West anymore , but in eg . much of the Middle East , having two unrelated and unsupervised people of the opposite sex in the same room may be a crime ( khalwat , " proximity " ) , even if you 're not getting down and dirty . The correct thing to do etiquettewise , then , is to book a room for two in advance , but unless you 're sure you 're getting lucky , this is often impractical . The practical ( but somewhat embarrassing ) thing to do is to request an upgrade at the counter , at which point they can also register your guest . In places like Thailand , where rent-a-dates and sex tourism is big business , hotels either impose " guest fees " for overnight visitors , or ( at the lower end ) explicitly market themselves a " guest-friendly " ; as far as I know , in Bangkok there 's <URL> which proclaims itself a " bastion of wholesome tourism " and bans overnight guests , and has achieved minor notoriety as a result ! But if you 're stuck in some Atlanta-like institution , eg . Japanese business hotels where " single " really means " single " and you 'd have to get another room , you could just do like us international uni students in the dorms did , and sneak your dates in via the fire escape , undetected by the beady eyes of the night security guard at the main entrance , and hope the good vibes balance out the bad karma . Or , if you 're not as skift as as exchange student and are actually in Japan ( or most anywhere in Asia , really ) , you could go rent a <URL> and get a circular bed , mirrors on the ceiling , and bondage Hello Kitty watching over you .
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
The cheapest option to get to the city is to take an MTA bus directly from the airport . You can transfer for free to one other bus line or , if you use a prepaid MetroCard " gold " , to the subway . The fare is currently $ 2.75 , but depending on which MetroCard you buy , you may spend slightly less . JFK is served by five MTA bus lines , all of which have a free transfer to at least one subway line . Three of the five stop at terminal 5 : the Q3 , the Q10 , and the B15 . The others do not stop at any passenger terminal . You 'll most likely land at the wrong terminal , so you 'll have to take the AirTrain to the bus stop , but this is free of charge . Plan on at least an extra hour for this trip , compared to taking the AirTrain to Jamaica or Howard Beach . I think most people 's time is worth more that $ 5 an hour , but maybe you have additional factors to consider . See <URL> for the Queens bus map .
The <URL> lists a <URL> . Opening hours according to the website are Monday through Sunday 5.30 am to 6pm . The service is located at Terminal 3 , Level 3 .
end question
start question
Can foreigners cross from Cambodia to Vietnam at the Binh Di river ?
NO IT IS NOT OPEN TO FOREIGNERS ! My suspicions this time turned out to be warranted . I arrived at the Chrey Thum border checkpoint at 5.30 pm yesterday afternoon . Even though I intended to spend a night in a guesthouse and cross today I thought it prudent to wander down and talk to the guards . There was a language barrier but they nonetheless made it quite clear that at this time ( March 2015 ) this particular border crossing is only a national border crossing , and foreigners from countries other than Cambodia and Vietnam can not cross . I 'm now very glad that my hitchhiking sense told me to have a spare day just in case . I 'm now back in Takeo Town with 46.5 km to Phnom Den , which is a much busier border crossing that 's easier to check online that it 's open to everybody . I should mention however that a new bridge project commenced in 2014 so I would be pretty certain that when it 's completed the crossing will be upgraded to an international one .
I was there last year , and I remember connecting to internet in a café . The internet was really ok ; nothing to complain about . Moreover , in general in Vietnam the internet connection is good . Some places censor Facebook though
TL ; DR : Take a taxi ; or take a train , arrive early and use the money you saved on a nice meal/nasty bottle of baijiu at the airport . First of all , a sanity check : a normal metered taxi from central Shanghai to PVG should be on the order of & yen ; 150 , or roughly & euro ; 20 . If that 's " too expensive " , you 're really not going to like the prices in Paris ! ( The same ride there would cost you at least 3x as much . ) But the good news is Wikivoyage seems to be out of date ( for another few minutes , anyway ) , since according to the <URL> ( in Chinese ) the last train on subway line 2 departs Guanglan Rd ( 广兰路 ) at 10:00 PM , arriving around 10:30 . Note that Guanglan Rd is on the eastern side of the line , and you 'll want to depart People 's Square around 9:30 to catch it . The <URL> leaves Longyang Rd at 9:40 , but this wo n't let you hang around Shanghai any longer , since you 'd need to leave People 's Sq around 9:20 at the latest to catch this . It 's a much comfier and zippier ride though ! Last and least , while all other shuttle buses stop at 9:30 PM , <URL> keeps running until 11 PM . This is unlikely to make much sense unless you 're arriving from western Shanghai though .
Despite that fact that many websites claim to offer them , there is no such thing as an e-visa for Vietnam . However in addition to normal consulate-issues visas , there is a " Visa On Arrival " available , however this works differently to visa on arrival for most other countries . In order to obtain a VOA for Vietnam for need to first obtain an official invitation letter , and this service is available via countless websites - some of them legitimate , some of them less so . TripAdvisor has a very good article on <URL> and I would strongly suggest reading it before you decided if a visa on arrival is right for you , and before picking a company to arrange the invitation letter . Be very careful when picking a company to use for this service - many companies go to great lengths to try and mislead you during the process . For example , www.vietnamvisa.govt.vn appears to be a legitimate Vietnam Government website - except it 's not . The government domain is " gov.vn " - this website has nothing to do with the government and is trying to use a similar domain to mislead you .
You can buy residential ( not commercial ) property if you hold an Alien Registration Card and if Taiwan nationals are able to buy property in your home country . You are generally not allowed to buy for profit , buy multiple properties etc : only buy a residence for personal use . You are also " required to apply to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for approval of the intended purchase " with regard to the above criteria <URL> And more importantly a Taiwanese <URL> to the relevant Taiwan law , and it 's implementation , along with the actual act it refers to <URL>
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
I think you are misreading the picture . There is a grate running across the road itself that cars can cross without problems but hoofed animals ( e.g. sheep ) can not . Next to the road there is a gate that can be opened when driving herds . But this gate is never used to close off the road . Generally , in Iceland , a closed gate means no entry . Unless there is a sign stating otherwise , I would n't presume to go through any closed gates .
Well according to <URL> : The nearest Cambodian town is Stung Treng , and the border is a 90-minute speedboat or bus ride away . Note that the border is lightly used , with almost no onward public transport available at the border ( therefore book through transport from Stung Treng to Ban Nakasang for Si Phan Don/Don Det ) and both customs officers and transport providers have a reputation of gouging foreigners , although this seems to have improved recently ( currently both Cambodian and Laos border officials request US$ 1 stamp fee per country ) . Crossing the border ( Oct 2010 ) the Cambodia officers will ask for US$ 1 for exit stamp.You can tell them you do n't have any and they will still stamp it . On the Laos side they will demand $ 2 for entry stamp , if you refuse they will not stamp it , ( you will need the stamp to get out ) , so you have no choice than to pay the bribe . Note if you cross the border by boat , you will have to return by road to the border checkpoint to officiate your arrival ( ie . get your passport stamped ) in Laos . As for top destinations , that 's something we try to avoid a bit - see the [ faq ] , we do n't want to do lists or subjective answers about what makes a destination a ' top ' destination , but <URL> that the Plain of Jars , Wat Phu , the three-layered gilded stupa of Pha That Luang ( national symbol ) and of course the natural wonders - the Mekong delta flatlands in the south .
Last time I flew Spirit , I was able to print my boarding pass at a kiosk without paying an additional fee . I believe the $ 10 fee only applies if you get a counter agent to print it for you .
NO IT IS NOT OPEN TO FOREIGNERS ! My suspicions this time turned out to be warranted . I arrived at the Chrey Thum border checkpoint at 5.30 pm yesterday afternoon . Even though I intended to spend a night in a guesthouse and cross today I thought it prudent to wander down and talk to the guards . There was a language barrier but they nonetheless made it quite clear that at this time ( March 2015 ) this particular border crossing is only a national border crossing , and foreigners from countries other than Cambodia and Vietnam can not cross . I 'm now very glad that my hitchhiking sense told me to have a spare day just in case . I 'm now back in Takeo Town with 46.5 km to Phnom Den , which is a much busier border crossing that 's easier to check online that it 's open to everybody . I should mention however that a new bridge project commenced in 2014 so I would be pretty certain that when it 's completed the crossing will be upgraded to an international one .
Yes ! It opened in October 2015 : <URL> I learned of this and borrowed the image from <URL> .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
I would say it is likely possible but it is fairly short . As you say you will need to leave the secure area of the airport , collect your luggage and go through luggage drop off , passport control and security . Waiting for your luggage should not take too much time , but 10 minutes is the least to expect . Most of the time non of the lines on the way in will be long , but three times 10 minutes will eat up most of your time . And it is not unlikely there are more delays when things go wrong . Add the walking times , and you are almost out of time without any delays . EasyJet can be late , they do not promise to get you there on the minute , just to get you there . With the later flight out of Schiphol , a delay of a few hours will not be a problem , but with the early flight a 30 minute delay can be too much . I would go for the later flight , 6 hours in Schiphol is not too bad . If it is more than 6 hours you might consider going out of the airport if your incomming flight is on time . I guess KLM city hopper will not allow you to change to a later flight without paying costs if the EasyJet flight is late . If the tickets are cheap you could buy a ticket for both the early and a later flight .
There are trains to Schiphol every hour through the night , it 's the Heerlen end of the trip that make it difficult . So you could first go to Utrecht , sleep there and catch a train in the morning . Or go all the way to Leiden or Amsterdam by train on Saturday afternoon and take a train , bus or taxi on Sunday morning . Depending on the type of accommodation/level of comfort , it should be possible to find cheaper ho ( s ) tel or B&amp;B in those cities than at the airport . You would also have more time to sleep in the morning than if you were to take your own car or a long-distance train during the night .
My Japanese friend tried this week in Islamabad ( not near the border but better than nothing ) , at the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Conclusion : It is hard to get , but not impossible ! The first time she tried , she was turned down . The second time she tried even harder , and that worked ! She paid a Rs . 5000 visa fee .
Processed pepperoni This is a bit unclear , one paragraph says they 're prohibited and another says canned and unopened pork products are ok . I think you should be careful with this one and leave the pepperoni unopened . Fresh ( chilled or frozen ) , dried , cured , and fully cooked meat is generally prohibited from most countries . [ ... ] Pork should be commercially canned and labeled in unopened containers Unlabelled fruit They 'll need to inspect them even if they were labelled , and unless you can prove they were grown in Canada , they will most probably be confiscated . Fruits and vegetables grown in Canada are generally admissible , if they have labels identifying them as products of Canada . Fruits and vegetables merely purchased in Canada are not necessarily admissible For fruits grown elsewhere in the Americas , you can check the <URL> database . You 'll notice there 's no US in the dropdown , I would be careful with US imported produce , I 've seen Florida oranges confiscated at the border but then again they might let them in . As for packaged fruits as opposed to raw ones , once more it depends where it was processed . <URL> guideline ( table 3.123 ) has all the information . Hard boiled eggs Those should be ok as Exotic Newcastle Disease seems to be <URL> in Canada and few <URL> of HPAI were reported . Eggs and egg products from Exotic Newcastle Disease ( END ) and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza ( HPAI ) affected regions , including cooked eggs , if not accompanied by a USDA Veterinary Service import permit remain prohibited regardless if those items are for personal consumption .
The solution to the language barrier problem may be much simpler than relying on the immigration to provide the interpreter for the native language of your family member . Given that he/she is coming from your native country it is much simpler to do one of the following : Find a person on the plane who speaks one of the major languages as well as the native language of your family member . My mother-in-law does it all the time . When she arrives she asks to come through immigration with that person to help her understand what 's being asked and she had no problems on her numerous visits . Ask the air crew for the same help . Yes it may require them to stick around longer then they would normally would but they normally speak at least one language in addition to the native and on most international flights ( if not all ) you will be able to find a person in the crew that speaks the native language of the destination country in this case France . He/She can try to arrange it prior to departure this service definitely is available for kids traveling alone but you can try it for your relative .
For such broad flight searches , a matrix flight search engine is the optimal solution . You could use for example <URL> . I did a simple search for you : For that search query I used Berlin , Germany and all surrounding airports within 1000 miles as origin and all major airports in Vietnam as destination . The screenshots shows the cheapest flight for all the days between 1 . of July and 1 . of August . As you can see , the cheapest flight is available for 386 $ . When we check the details for this flight we see the following : Mysteriously , the flight is now only 361 $ . As you can see the flight departures from Prague and flies to Ho Chi Minh City via Frankfurt . The involved Airlines are Czech Airlines and Vietnam Airlines . The cheapest non-stop flight from Europe to Vietnam I could find is available for 572 $ : It is a non-stop flight from Paris to Ho Chi Minh City with Vietnam Airlines : So generally , I would recommend that you use such flight search engines to find the cheapest and most convenient route for you .
Looks like <URL> offers one : Ocean Quest West is located at Trout River Pond on the south side of Gros Morne National Park , a UNESCO World Heritage Site . Our 2 hour Zodiac and Kayaking adventures bring our guests through 500 million years of history and explores rare and amazing geology such as the Tablelands , a piece of the Earth 's mantle thrust up from the depths of the planet . In addition to the spectacular scenery and geology you will also have the opportunity to view wildlife such as moose , caribou , and black bear and learn about the rich local culture . Our certified and experienced interpretive guides operate 7 days a week from June 10th -- September 10th . 9am-5pm Daily . Bilingual guides are available upon request . Hat tip to <URL>
Because Kings Cross station is one of the handful of big stations both owned and managed by the infrastructure operator Network Rail , the best source of information is n't National Rail Enquires ( as normally would be the case ) , but <URL> , and more specifically <URL> This contains quite a bit more showering details : By the entrance to platforms 9-11 . Monday to Sunday 07:00 - 21:00 # 5 , pay at Excess Baggage , soap included . Towels available - deposit required . This is almost all correct ... On arrival at Kings Cross , head towards platforms 9-11 . Go past platform 9 3/4 ( really ! ) , and by the stairs up to the Parcel Yard pub is the Excess Baggage Company office . Go in there , pay them a fiver , and they 'll give you a receipt . Next , follow the corridor by the Excess Baggage Company signposted as Toilets . At that barrier , ring the bell , and show them your receipt . They 'll get you a towel ( no charge/deposit ) and some shower gel , then unlock a hidden door in the appropriate toilet area ( male/female ) . You then go in and lock the door . The shower , at least on the male side , is in good condition and quite large . The non-shower area in the room is a little small , but does have 3 sturdy coat hooks . One downside - no shower curtain , so you 'll need to hang most things up to avoid it getting wet ! Plenty of water pressure ( maybe too much given no shower curtain ... ) , nice and warm water , decent shower gel and pretty good towel . For a fiver , and after a long journey , it 's not bad .
end question
start question
Any first-hand information on American " chip and no PIN " cards in the U.K. ?
Coming from New Zealand , when I arrived in the UK I had one of the credit cards that I had n't gotten around to putting a pin on . But without fail , as long as there was a person there , they 'd be happy to let me sign for it - and they 'd usually request a form of ID to compare with . In theory a pin is more secure , but signing is still perfectly valid . I then got myself a chipped and pinned debit card while living there , so I did n't end up using my NZ one that often , but when I did , it worked . I had a bit more trouble in Central Asian countries , but a bit of hand waving and you 'd usually get the message across ;)
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
I flew with LOT last summer from Tbilisi to London via Warsaw and then back . At no point did anyone even attempt to weight my carry on backpack . They asked me whether I had any carry on - I showed my backpack over my shoulder - and they just said , " Ok " . My bag was probably at or slightly over the 8 kg limit . That said , it really depends on how unlucky you are . In my experience they were very lenient , but that was almost a year ago and only in my specific experience .
I found it hard enough finding an ATM in Vancouver that would even ACCEPT my card ( or my friend 's ) . However , keep an eye out for HSBC ATMs , they seemed to be the ones guaranteed to take both my UK and New Zealand credit/debit cards . Failing that , any 7-11 never failed to accept my cards . And yes , some do charge extra fees . ( This was last month - was in Vancouver around the beginning of October . )
I 'm not aware of one website which covers this comprehensively . However , there is some information on guests and lounges generally for each of the major airline alliances : Oneworld allow entry for one guest for Emerald and Sapphire members : <URL> ( with exceptions for American Airlines lounges ) Star Alliance allow one guest for travelling in First Class or for Gold members : <URL> Skyteam allow guests for Elite Plus members travelling internationally : <URL> ( that 's for departure lounges - typically arrival lounges are rarer and the entry policies are even stricter ) My personal experience is that policies vary - the above are the ' minimum ' , but some lounges may be more generous , particularly if the guests are family members , the lounge is n't packed with people , guests are dressed smartly , you ask nicely , etc. . <URL> also maintains a fairly extensive list of lounges with details about facilities , entry policies , etc. . For some of those there are details on what you can pay to get in . Typically in my experience airline-branded lounges outside the US often do n't allow you to pay for entry at all ( although there are generic lounges , such as those operated by <URL> , that normally do ) . In North America , sometimes airline lounges do allow for paid entry , but costs can be steep ( e.g. American Airlines Admirals ' Club <URL> ) .
Here 's an excerpt from <URL> : Although many visitors , especially Americans , may feel apprehensive about visiting Hiroshima , it is a friendly , welcoming city , with as much interest in Western culture as anywhere else in Japan . Tourists are welcomed , and exhibits related to the atomic bomb are not concerned with blame or accusations . Bear in mind , though , that many hibakusha [ the survivors ] still live in the city , and even most of the young people in Hiroshima have family members who lived through the blast . As such , the average Hiroshima resident is n't likely to relish talking about it , although you need n't shy away from the topic if one of the chatty fellows around the Peace Park brings it up . Despite this and @MeNoTalk 's comment , another <URL> demonstrates that you ca n't be certain that no one will care or direct resentment toward you , but the circumstances of the story suggest it may have been a little bit of bad timing and luck on the author 's part . Besides , it was really just a few angry words with a sidelong glance ; nothing an American traveling abroad should n't be prepared for almost regardless of where one chooses to go . Regardless of what some others might think , my opinion as an American FWIW : if you want to go to learn about the consequences of the bombings , go with an open mind and sympathetic attitude -- I will if I 'm ever lucky enough to get the chance . There is <URL> . <URL> describes a visit from American students positively , demonstrating a welcoming reception by the museum staff and local students . If you want to visit Hiroshima to appreciate the rest of the city as well , more power to you . It certainly has much more to offer than war history . I 'm sure the same is true of Nagasaki . I would only advise against going with an attitude like <URL> ; I suspect few will be particularly eager to hear contentious opinions about the bombings from an American perspective ( especially not an ignorant one ) . Make your mission one of learning and receptivity to the local culture and perspectives , not one of " <URL> " or " <URL> " , and you should be fine . You 've already got the right kind of attitude in asking open-mindedly and cautiously about how your presence might impact others ; keep it up , and go in peace <URL> . [ BTW , I would welcome any general counterarguments from the community . I 'm not sure I 'm the right guy to answer , having never gone . ]
You will need to show visa documentation to board the flight to Canada . Assuming the rest of your family is traveling on your Pakistani passports and if your Iqama status is noted in those passports , the airline may wish to see his Pakistani passport as well at check-in to make sure he is documented to leave . But they should accept his US passport as proof of permission to enter Canada . The question would be if Saudi Arabia requires proof of travel upon your return . This happened to us in Africa , as my daughter used her second passport to avoid visa issues , but then was hassled since her exit visa from the previously visited country was not in the passport she presented to enter the next country .
Per <URL> , trains run three times a day , every day of the year ( 毎日運転 ) . However , there are a few periods when some runs of the special train with wood paneling and panorama windows etc are replaced by an ' ordinary ' express : Nr . 1/2/5 / 6 replaced : Sep 9-11 , Nov 17-21 , Jan 13-Feb 13 Nr . 3/4 replaced : Oct 6-10 , Dec 16-18 Do note that while all three trains run from Fukuoka ( Hakata ) to Yufuin , the Yufuin-Beppu bit of the route is served only once per day by Nr . 3/4 . Re : pricing , my understanding is that all seats are the same price , and the panorama section is open to all .
Dont know about Dubai , but Qatar ID Number is of 11 digits . First digit will be 2 , if you are born in 20th Century i.e. on or before 2000 . 3 if you are born after . 2nd &amp; 3rd digit is your birth year in yy format . 4th , 5th , 6th digit is your nationality code , same for same country . Last five is your sequence number of entering country first time , with somebody entering at 01 Jan 00:01 will be 00001 . So , no , two work visa numbers for two different persons will not be same . Although same person re-entering Qatar after getting first visa cancelled will get same number as earlier . Note that this applies to Qatar ID Numbers . The temporary visa you need to enter and get the RP process completed may be totally different .
The best advice is to bring as little " stuff " as possible . If you think about all the stuff you 're bringing , you could categorize it like this : I will definitely need it in the airport or on the plane ( Eg passport , money ) It will make me more comfortable in the airport or on the plane ( eg pillow , book ) If it were lost , stolen , delayed or damaged my trip would be pointless or ruined ( eg laptop ) If I check it I will have to pay a baggage fee or wait for it to come out on the belt Try to restrict yourself to items " above the line " . Now what you 're dealing with in the stores , the bathroom , at security and so on is a large purse or a small backpack and not something on wheels that a store might be likely to ban . Of course if you 're travelling with another person , it 's such a luxury to leave your stuff with them while you pop off to do something . Many business lounges have small lockers - you ca n't get a rollaboard in them , but you can get a backpack in , and I have used that to stash my carryon while I spent a layover exploring a city . It 's overkill for wanting to go shopping , but something to keep in mind if you have a long time to spend in an airport . ( I believe they 're designed for you to put your stuff in while you shower , or to simplify wandering around the lounge getting food , drink , and reading material without wanting to drag all your stuff around . )
If you are choosing between a business or first MileSAAver or an economy AAnytime , the only reason to choose AAnytime is to maximize your flexibility in changing flights . An AAnytime award can be changed essentially any time until the day of departure with no penalty , provided there is a seat available , whereas to change a MileSAAver flight , there would need to be MileSAAver availability on the new flight and you would be assessed a $ 150 change fee . The incidental costs and benefits at the airport would be roughly the same . But flying in the premium cabin means a better in-flight experience , and on intercontinental routes you would also be comped access to the Admirals Club . AAnytime awards are generally treated as full-fare ( Y ) tickets . An AAnytime economy ticket , for example , will include <URL> and a Priority AAccess boarding pass . You can also request seats in the Main Cabin Extra seats or Preferred Seats for no charge . There are no fees for any changes to your flight , although there is a fee for redeposit ( unless they are from an account with AAdvantage Executive Platinum status ) . They differ in that award tickets of any kind can not be endorsed , do not earn miles or Q-miles , and can not be upgraded . MileSAAver awards have all the above restrictions and lack all the benefits , and are subject to tight capacity controls to boot . They do incur a change fee if you alter your routing ( again , unless the miles come from an Executive Platinum account ) , though not if you keep the same routing and merely change your travel dates . A MileSAAver economy ticket is like a discount economy ticket ; it does not get the baggage and priority boarding benefits . But as you have found , a MileSAAver business or domestic first ticket costs the same number of AAdvantage miles as an AAnytime economy ticket . Flying in a premium cabin also gets you a baggage allowance and Priority AAccess , a priority checkin line at the airport , plus an invitation to the airport club if you are on an intercontinental flight , not to mention a seat that is going to be at least as comfortable as any Preferred Seat in economy . Given my travel patterns , I will always opt for a restricted premium cabin ticket over an unrestricted main cabin ticket when they cost the same .
It is indeed difficult to find information about this if you ca n't read Japanese or Korean . Most ferries are passengers only . I ended up asking a friend in Japan : There is at least one car ferry between Busan ( Korea ) and Fukuoka ( Japan ) run by <URL> . The information I got says that the cheapest room category is included in the car price , but for the driver only . This means that at least for this ferry , additional car passengers have to pay extra . Whether that additional fee is the same as the single passenger fare I do n't know . Also this does n't mean there are no other companies out there with different conditions but I pretty much doubt that . The question to ask would be ' Are there any ferries in the world that charge per car including all passengers ? ' Edit : My second source in Fukuoka came back to me : There is another ferry between Busan and Shimonoseki operated by ' <URL> ' . Again it seems you have to pay by passenger . Also for the ferry from Busan to Fukuoka you have to buy a return ticket for your car . There are no one-way tickets available . This should n't concern any hitch-hikers though .
According to <URL> : Obtaining systemwide upgrades When you qualify or re-qualify for AAdvantage ® Executive Platinum status : And that 's it , as far as anything a typical frequent flyer can aim for in a given program year . Million Miler You get additional SWUs ( previously known as eVIPs or VIPOWs ) in the <URL> program , four for every million base miles after the first million . Thus , you get four at 2,000,000 miles , then another four at 3,000,000 , and so on . Gift SWUs can be gifted from another AAdvantage account . If you have a friend or colleague who , for example , has expiring SWUs they will not be able to use , you can ask them to have it applied to an upcoming trip of yours . There are several things to note : You must have actually booked a trip , as the SWU is applied to a particular PNR . The SWU is not transferred to your account ; it remains in the original account and is simply applied to your itinerary . The expiration date on the SWU is not reset . Bartering , selling , or trading the SWU for any other consideration is against the AAdvantage Terms and Conditions . There are <URL> people have attempted to use to sell benefits , and the airlines have no tolerance for any of them . Buying/bartering As I just said , the SWU is voided if sold or traded for cash or any other consideration -- but there 's more . AAdvantage is a private program administered by American Airlines , and so it is the judgment of American Airlines that determines whether or not you have broken the rules . They can not only cancel the cert but take away all your other miles and status , nullify your MM progress , or close your account and ban you for life from the program altogether . The airlines do monitor eBay , Craigslist , and other sites and investigate transactions they find suspicious . AA specifically was involved in the wholesale shutdown and revamping of the <URL> at FlyerTalk over these issues , and American Airlines items remain banned there completely . Customer service You 'll find anecdotal reports on the Internet of high value customers being given a SWU as a customer service gesture in some extreme cases , like someone in paid international first class being delayed two days and then downgraded to a middle seat in economy . It is likely that such a SWU would be inscribed on dragon skin , placed in a case made of unicorn horn , and delivered by a sasquatch wearing a coat of angel feathers . As you note , the SWU is an extremely valuable benefit , and an expensive one for AA . They have no reason to make it easy to obtain -- otherwise , they would essentially be giving away their most profitable seats , and the most desirable benefit offered to their most loyal customers .
Airbnb 's " Long Term Cancellation Policy " is that for stays of one month or more , if you cancel , you have to pay the first month 's rent . This makes a lot of sense if you 've booked a place for 6 months ... but as you 've discovered , it 's pretty harsh for a stay of exactly 1 month . Official version : <URL>
From what I 've been able to locate in Czech Republic , the closest model to Ryanair 's standards is the " <URL> " : CABIN APPROVED Small 55 X 38 X 20 cm / 2.6 kg / 44 L At the time of the posting , the price of this piece of hand luggage was 90 .
Coming from New Zealand , when I arrived in the UK I had one of the credit cards that I had n't gotten around to putting a pin on . But without fail , as long as there was a person there , they 'd be happy to let me sign for it - and they 'd usually request a form of ID to compare with . In theory a pin is more secure , but signing is still perfectly valid . I then got myself a chipped and pinned debit card while living there , so I did n't end up using my NZ one that often , but when I did , it worked . I had a bit more trouble in Central Asian countries , but a bit of hand waving and you 'd usually get the message across ;)
I 'm guessing you are mis-understanding the definition of a " temporary visitor " in the sense that it is used on that website . In order to receive a Drivers License or ID card in Texas , you must be a resident of the state , and must be able to prove that fact . The " Temporary " refers to the fact that you can be a resident of the state , but not a " permanent resident " - such as if you are in the country on a long-term work visa . So yes , the UK does have something similar to what Texas has in that non-permanent residents can apply for an ID card/Drivers license - but no , you will not be able to receive one if you are visiting for a week .
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
<URL> . Tourism Information Center ( Fonatur ) Ph : 84 29 59 ; Downtown Ave. Nader at Ave. Coba , SM 5 This is <URL> , although it 's worth noting that apparently they shorten street names , so the actual street name is Avenida Carlos Nader .
As of september last year , I was able to withdraw cash with both VISA and MasterCard from ATMs in indonesia , both were swipe cards . I did n't pay directly at point of sale using any of my cards since that incurs a fee for both of my cards . However I expect swipe cards to be supported anywhere for the foreseeable future since even in my home country ( germany ) , I have not yet seen any place where EMV is supported , but swipe is not .
end question
start question
Which airlines provide cheap last day tickets in Nordic countries ?
Since you 're leaving from Tartu and Riga is a viable alternative to the Tallinn airport and a much better option as a flight gateway . According to the <URL> <URL> has at least 6 scheduled daily flights to Oslo/Gardermoen including 1 at 22:00 and one at 23:05 , which will suit your schedule nicely . You 're right about the buses from Tartu to Riga . <URL> does n't seem to have a very convenient schedule , neither does <URL> . As far as airports are concerned the only other airport within a reasonable vicinity would be Pskov but nothing worth mentioning is flying to or from there . The next major airport would be <URL> but personally I would n't bother with it . ADDITIONAL INFO After checking flight schedule from <URL> to Oslo I really would n't bother ...
If you 're on international flight , staying less than 24 hours in airport , and are not leaving it , you do not need a transit visa . Look at <URL> .
Train tickets are only more expensive if you do n't have one when the conductor comes and you need to buy one from her/him on board . There is no difference in the price between buying days ahead or minutes before the train leaves . The one thing you should watch out for , is that sometimes large queues can form in front of the cashiers for various reasons . So if you have some time to kill , buy your ticket first and then enjoy the remaining time , rather than go for a stroll and return to see that you wo n't make it to the end of the queue before the train leaves .
There are actually many cheaper options in Probolinggo than the ones visible on internet or in lonely planet Indonesia ( edition 2013 ) . I stayed in a guesthouse for 80 ' 000 IDR per night , for a double bedroom with shower ( cold water only ) . It was clean , not far from the train station , and staff was nice . The guesthouse is called " female guesthouse " , although I 'm a male , this name made no difference . Note that I went with my girlfriend . Tampiarto hotel has double bedrooms with AC for 195 ' 000 IDR . <URL> . <URL> . Hostel Dharma has double rooms without AC for 75 ' 000 IDR , &amp; with AC for 125 ' 000 IDR . <URL> . I also found another few places with higher standards ( i.e. With swimming pool for around 200 ' 000 IDR ) . Please find below a picture of a flyer from 2015 with different hotels and the relevant prices , address , phone number , and so on . For further info , contact the tourism information office in Probolinggo , they were very helpful when I got in touch with them .
Rental Companies Say No to Snow Chains Sampling information from 3 car rental companies currently serving SFO would point to the harsh reality that car rentals generally do n't include snow-chains in their list of additional options . What you get instead are snow/winter tyres , depending on rental season , availability and a bunch of other factors : the trick here is to call ahead and reserve . Quoting from <URL> : Ski Racks and Snow Tires Avis offers ski racks and snow tires on selected vehicles in some U.S. locations . Please call ahead and check with the rental location after reserving online , or call 800-633-3469 . <URL> : What 's the cost of snow chains ? Answer : Snow chains are not offered or available as optional equipment because of the potential damage to the rental vehicle . Many local restrictions also prohibit the use of snow chains . <URL> : Can I add snow chains ? Can I be guaranteed a four wheel drive SUV ? Enterprise does not offer snow chains as additional equipment nor can snow chains be placed on rental vehicles . Our vehicles are equipped with all weather tires . A specific vehicle option such as four wheel drive can not be guaranteed . Please check with the branch upon arrival for availability . Get Your Own Chains Your best bet would be to purchase chains on your way to Yosemite . Supermarkets ( Walmarts , etc. ) and gas stations should stock them . Do n't wait to reach the park to get them , since you 're not guaranteed to find any , and once you do it might be too late . <URL> : You can purchase chains or cables at most auto parts stores and gas stations , particularly in communities surrounding Yosemite National Park . A limited selection of chains is available for purchase at the Village Garage in Yosemite Valley and the Wawona gas station . Be sure to purchase chains or cables that match your tire size . It 's difficult to find businesses that rent chains ; they 're usually only available for purchase . Rental car companies generally do n't provide chains , however rental cars are not exempt from chain requirements , even if they have all-season tires . Chains provide better traction than cables , however cables are easier to install ; both are acceptable under the law . Your vehicle 's owner 's manual may specify that you use cables , not chains . You could also try to buy/bring your own chains . <URL> The advice here is to avoid renting from companies whose rental contracts explicitly forbid you to mount them on the car ( see Enterprise above ) , so to avoid incurring in extra damage fees . Also , do not show these to the rental company employees : last thing you want is for them to have an excuse to charge you for damage based on the fact that you are planning to mount chains on tyres . To bring your own chains you 'll obviously need to know the tyre size in advance . This can be difficult since you are never guaranteed to get the car you reserve . Rather you are usually given a car in the same " class " . A chain size smaller or larger than your tyre will obviously be useless .
Rent a ( Solo ) Music Studio Since you mention the need to be alone , a dedicated music studio comes to mind . A quick google search revealed <URL> and <URL> . Both of these offer small solo studios for something around 6-7 per hour , during both weekdays ( off-peak and peak hours ) and weekends . Whether this is considered as cheap is up to you to . :) There must be more music studios available for rental out there . These are just two examples . To find more you might want to try querying your favourite search engine for salle de musique and/or studio de répétition ( French for music studio ) . Parks and Kiosques If you decide one day that you want to see something else other than soundproofing foam in Paris , you could head to any park , set up your gear on the grass and go nuts . Indeed it is not uncommon to see random art performers rehearsing in the Parisian parks . <URL> Moreover some parks have dedicated music gazebos ( kiosques in French ) with great acoustics . These are usually free to use . Note that from May to October some kiosques will be taken by <URL> , <URL> . If you wish to use the kiosques you 'll want to coordinate yourself with these events . <URL> Below is a picture of the kiosque at the Parc du square Necker : Le kiosque à musique du square Necker , <URL> , Fair use Park Regulations and Musical Instruments Note that is is technically forbidden to make noise and disturb other park users , as per <URL> . Moreover these explicitly mention noise arising from playing instruments : Sont interdits les bruits gênants par leur intensité , leur durée , leur fréquence ou leur caractère agressif , en particuliers ceux produits par les instruments de musique et de percussion et par la diffusion de musique amplifiée , sauf dérogation . Whilst this does indeed mean that you need to ask the Mairie de Paris for authorisation to play an instrument in the park , in my humble opinion you should be able to play freely so long as you do n't disturb others around you . Whether violin music is a nuisance due to its intensity , duration , frequency or aggressive character ( translating the afore-mentioned rules ) is up for discussion . In any case , keep in mind that you are doing something forbidden and that therefore people might ask you to move or stop .
Short answer is none , you 'll be able to apply for visas and enter anywhere , although it may require some explaining . Here 's <URL> ( which presumably deals with this all the time ) as an example , and a <URL> : Single names are quite common in eg . southern India , Indonesia and Mongolia , and thus embassy staff are reasonably used to dealing with them ; a single-named Indonesian friend of mine had more problems dealing with smaller bureaucracies like ( in the US ) library cards , university IDs , etc. . She usually ended up duplicating her name or creating a fake initial : " H Henny " , " Henny Henny " , etc. .
A quite a good resource is imho the standard clock setting in Microsoft Windows installations : image from talkstandards.com As you can see , it 's particularly North America , India , the Philippines , Colombia , Egypt , Saudi Arabia , and Australia This is more or less confirmed by <URL> that states that in most English-speaking regions , particularly the United States , the Philippines and the United Kingdom and its former colonies , the 12-hour clock is the predominant form of stating the time .
You could try <URL> . It 's a company for cheap bus lines operated by DB . <URL> also have domestic lines .
With regular NS trains ( intercity 's , sprinter 's and stoptrains ) booking in advance does not give you any discount . If you would travel with a NS HiSpeed train this could be the case , but there 's no direct HiSpeed connection between Eindhoven and Amsterdam , so it 's irrelevant to your journey . There 's a direct train between Eindhoven and Amsterdam Central Station which would cost you $ 17.90 one way . If you buy the ticket at the counter , instead of at the machine , you 'll have to pay an additional $ 0.5 . If you 're really tight on money you could look for someone who looks like a student and ask politely if you can travel " together " . 90 % off all students has a card which gives them and 3 fellow travellers a 40 % reduction on any train journey . Fellow travellers can make use of this system after 09:00 on weekdays , the whole day during weekends and also the whole day during the months July and August . When I was a student I 've had this question asked several times . When a conductor asked the other person why he had a ticket with 40 % discount , I would just say that we travelled together , making the discounted ticket valid .
TL ; DR - they are the days when government support payments are made . They 're in the calendar presumably for budgeting purposes . Pension Day The most common types of pension payments are age pensions - The Age Pension is designed to provide income support to older Australians who need it , while encouraging pensioners to maximise their overall incomes . The Age Pension is paid to people who meet age and residency requirements , subject to a means test . Pension rates are indexed to ensure they keep pace with Australian price and wage increases . <URL> ... and disability support pensions - Financial support for people who have a physical , intellectual , or psychiatric condition that stops them from working or who are permanently blind . <URL> Family Payment Day We provide a range of payments and services that help you look after your children 's education and health care , and any family issues that may come up along the way . <URL>
The easy , safe and cheap option is train station lockers , which can be found at all major train stations in Tokyo ( and Japan ) . Japanese lockers are usually narrow but deep , so while hard plastic suitcases will not fit into them , backpacks are generally not a problem . Some larger stations ( eg . Tokyo stn ) also have manned left luggage counters ( 手荷物預かり所 nimotsu-azukari-dokoro ) , which can handle any size of bag and only cost a bit more than lockers . On station maps , these are usually shown with a " bag-and-key " icon , while lockers are " bag-in-box-with-key " . Which one to recommend , though , is going to depend on what you were going to do during your day in Tokyo and how you 're planning to get around . If you 're planning on exploring around Shibuya or Shinjuku , I 'd take the Keikyu railway from Haneda and leave the bag at Shinagawa . Shibuya and Shinjuku are a few stops away on the Yamanote line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the JR Narita Express ( N'EX ) . Alternatively , you can transfer from Shinagawa to Shibuya/Shinjuku with your bag , leave it at either station , and then take the N'EX . If you 're planning on exploring around Ueno and Asakusa , I 'd take the monorail to Hamamatsucho , connect to Yamanote , and leave the bag at Ueno . Ueno Park is walking distance , Asakusa is a few stops away on the Ginza Line , and you can continue to Narita directly on the Keisei Skyliner ( premium ) or Sky Access Limited Express ( cheaper , slower ) . You can also take the Keikyu line via Shinagawa directly to Asakusa , but this takes approximately forever and may require a transfer along the way . I probably would not recommend Tokyo station : it 's huge , remarkably confusing , not terribly close to anything interesting ( although naturally it 's well connected to the entire city ) , and not super easy to get to from Haneda . That said , there are <URL> from Tokyo stn to Narita , so if you 're really pinching pennies it might be worth hassle . One tip : when you do leave your bag , pay careful attention to where the locker is and how you got there , these are all massive stations and ( voice of experience ) it 's no fun running around trying to figure out where the hell you left it ...
Specific to Paris ( and vegetarian food ) : There are many Indian restaurants next to Gare du Nord , on Rue du Faubourg Saint-Denis , which has a significant Tamil presence . <URL> has many Indian restaurants too . Quality can vary , but I specifically recommend two restaurants , <URL> and <URL> , both Chennai-based south Indian vegetarian restaurant chains . For the best value for money , try the mini tiffin at Sangeetha - a ( smaller than usual ) masala dosa , idly , sambar , chutneys , pongal , rava kesari , and filter coffee at only $ 7 ( yes , that is a good price ! ) . There are other cheaper restaurants in the vicinity , but they are n't that good . ( Mini tiffin ( coffee not shown ) ) Even cheaper , there is a place called <URL> , which serves vegetarian Punjabi food . It 's just next to the northern terminus of Metro 7 , rather far from central Paris . The decor and furniture is basic , and the restaurant looks like it could very well be in a small town in north India . A full meal consisting of 3 rotis or 2 nans , with a sabji and dal ( and perhaps rice ? I 'm not sure ) , is only $ 5 , while chhole bhature is $ 3.50 . If you 're in Paris for only a few days , it 's probably not worth spending the time to go here . There are several north Indian restaurants in Paris , at Passage Brady and other places , I do n't have much to say about them . Even if one does n't want to experiment much with food , it 's worthwhile to try some other foods which are very close to Indian in taste . For example , Lebanese food can be quite similar to Indian food : try the falafel ( a kind of vada ) , at <URL> ( sandwich with 5 balls of falafel , and salad from a buffet at $ 4.90 ) , or the rolls ( " manakiche " ) at <URL> , particularly the " batata " ( potato ) which could pass off as Indian ( $ 4.20 ) . Then you have Mexican/Tex-Mex burritos - a large chapati , rolled up , and inside it rice , rajma , possibly meat ( not necessarily ) , some vegetables , salad , cheese , cream , and sauce ( can be spicy ! ) . Typically this is made in front of you , and you can ask them to add or not add specific items . I 'd recommend <URL> and <URL> on Rue Mouffetard ( $ 6.50 - 7 ) , or <URL> ( better than the previous two , and at $ 9.30 ) . You could also try <URL> - a sandwich with your chosen subset of tomato , onion , peppers , olives , cucumber , cheese , lettuce , sauces , etc , and various kinds of meat ( 30cm vegetarian is $ 6 ) . If I had to pick just one place , I 'd pick Sangeetha . All these places are open all days of the week , at lunch as well as dinner times . The prices are as of April/May 2015 . Avoid buying beverages or any packaged food such as chips at restaurants , they are expensive - buy them cheaper at a supermarket instead . Enjoy your trip !
The first thing to note is that there are in principle no situations in which you are free to choose where you should lodge your application . The rule is that you have to apply to the consulate of your main destination country serving your place of residence and , if there is no main destination , to the relevant consulate of the country through which you will enter the Schengen area . If you are planning a tour involving several countries , you could plan to stay a little longer somewhere or add a transit to target a specific country but this always involve adjusting your stated itinerary . The visa fee are defined in the visa code and thus exactly the same for all countries/consulates ( $ 60 for most pople , $ 35 for children between 6 and 12 and nationals of a handful of countries , and free for some special categories of applicants including infants and family members of EU citizens ) . Some consulates outsource some part of the process to a subcontractor ( often VFS Global , but France uses a company called TLScontact ) and they can add a processing fee on top of that . But that 's consulate-specific rather than country-specific . The documentary requirements should be more-or-less the same . The actual legal requirements ( and thus the standard an applicant has to meet and the valid reasons to refuse an application ) are also defined in the Schengen visa code and thus fully harmonized . That said , the requirements in question are pretty high-level requirements , e.g. " documents in relation to accommodation , or proof of sufficient means to cover his accommodation " which does leave quite a bit of room for interpretation . One example would be visits to friends and family : You need an official invitation but getting one involves quite a bit of hassle and the requirements do vary from one country to the next . However , it 's not easy to use these differences to your advantage as you obviously have to get the invitation from the place where your sponsor lives ... I do n't have any recent statistics at hand but those I have seen a few years ago show that there are indeed rather sizable differences in the refusal rates from one country to the next . However it 's not clear that targeting a country with a lower refusal rate can really help you . Among many other factors , consider this : There are also large differences in the origin of the applications processed by each country 's consular network . For example , Belgium processes nearly all applications for Schengen visas lodged in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( the Belgian embassy there runs something called the <URL> and handles applications on behalf of 18 different Schengen countries ) and this represents a large part of all applications processed by Belgium worldwide . There are many reasons why applications from the DRC tend to be weaker , or perhaps examined more rigorously than elsewhere and the refusal rate is indeed high , driving Belgium 's average up . But this is certainly not predictive of the odds of getting a visa from the Belgium consulate in London for a UK resident with a stable situation .
It very much depends on the hostel . Some provide amazing kitchens with multiple ovens , fridges and every utensil you can imagine . Others require a cash deposit to use pots , cutlery etc. . Generally , no , you do n't need to bring if it 's a highly rated hostel on hostelbookers or hostelworld - read the reviews and if there 's a " great kitchen " comment , it 's a good sign . The lower end ones . . sometimes are lacking a bit in facilities . Some really rough ones have n't even had kitchens available for use . The reviews are your friend - even if you do n't book on the sites , it 's handy to look through for comments about what you want - be it wifi , a kitchen , or warnings about bedbugs .
Generally speaking the borders between Switzerland and its neighboring countries Liechtenstein , Austria , Germany , France and Italy are open for every one . Obviously , you need an appropriate visa , but if that is okay there is nothing that restrains you from crossing any border . For example with a Schengen visa you can cross every border between Switzerland and its neighboring countries .
Sloterdijk was a village out of Amsterdam but has now been gulped up by the city and is part of it . Just like the villages around London are part of Greater London . It is within the city bus system area and on those buses you can use the travel passes for the city . And depending on where you want to be in Amsterdam , the bus might well be faster than going by train and take a bus from the Central station . The <URL> will tell you door to door , your hotel to wherever you want to go , how to get there . You can even set it to ' no train ' to get that out of the results . When you arrive you can ask whether there still is a bus pass that allows travel on the NS trains ( national railways ) within the Amsterdam area . I will look further and update if I do find one . An OV chip seems a good investment but you need to realize that at the start of any train travel you need to have $ 20 on it , even for just a $ 2.20 ' within the city ' run . And it has to be a different OV chip for each of you , so as a couple you can be left with about $ 35 on your cards . Officially you can get a refund for that money , but it takes time and effort and you will always lose some money . The Amsterdam tourist information office site has a <URL> and non of them includes the train within Amsterdam , apart from the ' Schiphol return ' which you already found . An <URL> mentions renting a bicycle , which might suit you . It is cheaper than three bus or tram tickets per day , but it does include some effort . Riding is safe and helmets are not used by those using utility bikes as rentals mostly are . Dutch cyclist do only use helmets when going high speed or off road , as a rule , that means that if you want to rent a bike and peddle on the bike lanes , you can do so without helmets , which makes bike rental much easier for tourists . Helmets are not only not mandatory , they are also not often used .
There is no other " interesting " airport really nearby . At 172 kilometers you have the <URL> . This airport is sometimes called " Munich West " and served by some low-cost carriers . You have to go by <URL> or <URL> from Memmingen to Nürnberg . It takes almost 4 hours . Bus prices start at 11 EUR and trains at 19 EUR ( if you book early enough ) . Add 3 EUR for the transfer from the airport to the city . Another interesting option can be <URL> , next to Munich . It 's 132 kilometers from Nuremberg . It is a huge airport served by plenty of airlines . It is a bit closer to Nuremberg than Memmingen , and you have better possibilities to make the transfer by public transport . You can either take a <URL> or a <URL> . A regional train costs 22 EUR and it takes 2h45 with one change . Busses are faster ( < 2 hours ) and probably cheaper , but less frequent than the trains .
There are a few things about California that are simply difficult concepts for people to get their heads around . It does n't matter whether or not you 've been to the US before ; even if you 've lived in the eastern US your whole life , you 'll still get bit by these when visiting California . Here 's two of them : Public transit You can generally get from one part of an urban area to another part of the same urban area ( within , say , 30-50 miles ) by public transit . Going a longer distance than that , or going to a suburban area ( much less rural ) , or going to another county ? At that point , it 's sheer luck . Distances While places may look nearby on a map , they are n't . Anaheim , for instance , is not in Los Angeles ; it 's not even in LA County . People who live in one go to the other as a day trip . Google maps says it takes <URL> . A trip from Anaheim to <URL> is about <URL> . I doubt that there 's a way to do it via public transportation at all . Based on what you 've said you like , I recommend that you check out <URL> . Google Maps says it should take <URL> each way . It looks like once you get there , you 're in for <URL> .
Airliners or staff tickets are not available to regular passengers , they are strictly available to employees of different airlines . Each airlines provides each employee with certain or unlimited number of free/discounted tickets each year/contract depending on the contract or level of the employee . In addition to that each airline may have a bilateral agreement with other airlines so employees of these airlines can get discounted space available tickets on the other airline , this is called <URL> . The process of getting such a ticket is not as easy as dropping by an airline 's ticketing office and get one ! it has to be issued from the employee 's airline according to the agreement and it may have a special application to be filled and the person has to show proper airlines ID prior to boarding . These tickets usually are extremely cheap ( around 90 % discount or more ) but it is seat available , I have saved a lot of money because of the ZED agreements , I also have faced a lot of delays when the planes are full and I could n't get a seat . Anyway , staff tickets are only available to airlines staff . For regular passengers I am not aware of any disounted " Space Available " tickets , the only way to go is the different offers and discounts from different airlines/websites .
end question
start question
Is there a legal limit to the amount of cash one can carry on domestic US flights ?
No , <URL> . However , <URL> if you 're carrying a lot of currency or other valuables in order to prevent drawing attention to items that could be stolen . This is probably good advice since you are separated from your luggage for a bit at the checkpoint , especially if you get stuck waiting in a slower-than-normal line for the scanner after placing your baggage on the conveyor . I 've heard that the United States government can and is seizing any amount of cash over a certain dollar amount at airports . That is definitely not true . They may be curious why you 're carrying $ 30k in cash and may ask you about it , but they will not ( and , legally , can not ) seize it unless they have probable cause to believe that you have committed or are about to commit a crime and that said cash is reasonably likely to be evidence of said crime . If they do have probable cause to suspect a crime , then they can refer the matter to law enforcement and keep you around until law enforcement gets there to question you . From the TSA Management Directive copied into page 19 of <URL> : When currency appears to be indicative of criminal activity , TSA may report the matter to the appropriate authorities . For all flights , factors indicating that cash is related to criminal activity include the quantity , packaging , circumstances of discovery , or method by which the cash is carried , including concealment ... TSA may also note any factors related to criminal activity for purposes of notifying CBP [ for international passengers ] and/or law enforcement , as well as request that the individual remain accessible pursuant to such notification . Of course the best advice is probably to simply not carry large amounts of currency with you when you fly in the first place . If you carry it on , it could be stolen at the checkpoint either by a TSA agent or by another passenger . TSA does n't keep track of whose bag is whose when they go through the conveyor . If someone grabs your bag or takes something out of it before you clear the scanner , they are n't going to know that the bag does n't belong to that person until it 's too late . For checked luggage , you are separated from it from the time you check in until you get to the baggage carousel at your destination . Airline agents , TSA agents , baggage handlers , ground crew , etc. at each airport you transit have access to your bags when you ca n't see them , so it would be nearly impossible for you to catch the culprit if someone decided to help themselves to some cash . If you do have to fly with large amounts of cash , <URL> has useful advice .
The issue is not not reached a point yet where there is a proposed legislation . The problem with liquid screening is highlighted in the Commission 's latest <URL> , published about a year ago : At the end of November 2014 , the Commission received the results of an additional study assessing a possible second phase for lifting of the liquid restrictions . This study was carried out by the consultant ICF International . It assessed the possibility of permitting passengers to carry bottled water through a series of airport trials and also checked the findings of the previous study , in relation to the operational impact of the first phase . Also , this study concluded that the first phase had no negative operational impact on EU airports , even during the summer peak of operations at the EU airports involved in this study . It however also concluded that there may be a significant impact on throughput and cost for EU airports should the restrictions be further lifted to permit passengers to also carry bottled water . This is mainly due to the expected high number of bottles that would need to be screened and which would require significantly more liquids screening equipment . The outcome of this study led the Commission , in concertation with Member States , stakeholders and its international partners , to postpone the introduction of the second phase of lifting the liquid restrictions . That being said , the issue is still being worked on . Trials are conducted at various airports to test the process . These are usually not publicly announced , with the exception of <URL> where trials were conducted in the last two months : Through this project Malta International Airport is contributing towards enhancing the passenger experience for travellers within the EU . The key participant airports for this project are Amsterdam Schiphol Airport , Budapest International Airport , Alicante International Airport , Dublin International Airport , and Malta International Airport . The airport team has already conducted some initial trials , to establish the ideal testing environment . With the technology and equipment now available for LAGs to be screened , MIA 's security team will be determining best practices for this new screening procedure whilst maintaining the requirements of the current EU legislation . The results from the participant airports will be analysed by the European Commission , with a view to implement new guidelines on LAGs . When this exercise is taking place , passengers who may , in special circumstances , be carrying LAGs of more than 100ml will be subjected to further screening . O&amp;I Consulting , the company which conducts these trials for the European Commission , currently carries out an <URL> on that issue .
No , <URL> . However , <URL> if you 're carrying a lot of currency or other valuables in order to prevent drawing attention to items that could be stolen . This is probably good advice since you are separated from your luggage for a bit at the checkpoint , especially if you get stuck waiting in a slower-than-normal line for the scanner after placing your baggage on the conveyor . I 've heard that the United States government can and is seizing any amount of cash over a certain dollar amount at airports . That is definitely not true . They may be curious why you 're carrying $ 30k in cash and may ask you about it , but they will not ( and , legally , can not ) seize it unless they have probable cause to believe that you have committed or are about to commit a crime and that said cash is reasonably likely to be evidence of said crime . If they do have probable cause to suspect a crime , then they can refer the matter to law enforcement and keep you around until law enforcement gets there to question you . From the TSA Management Directive copied into page 19 of <URL> : When currency appears to be indicative of criminal activity , TSA may report the matter to the appropriate authorities . For all flights , factors indicating that cash is related to criminal activity include the quantity , packaging , circumstances of discovery , or method by which the cash is carried , including concealment ... TSA may also note any factors related to criminal activity for purposes of notifying CBP [ for international passengers ] and/or law enforcement , as well as request that the individual remain accessible pursuant to such notification . Of course the best advice is probably to simply not carry large amounts of currency with you when you fly in the first place . If you carry it on , it could be stolen at the checkpoint either by a TSA agent or by another passenger . TSA does n't keep track of whose bag is whose when they go through the conveyor . If someone grabs your bag or takes something out of it before you clear the scanner , they are n't going to know that the bag does n't belong to that person until it 's too late . For checked luggage , you are separated from it from the time you check in until you get to the baggage carousel at your destination . Airline agents , TSA agents , baggage handlers , ground crew , etc. at each airport you transit have access to your bags when you ca n't see them , so it would be nearly impossible for you to catch the culprit if someone decided to help themselves to some cash . If you do have to fly with large amounts of cash , <URL> has useful advice .
Yours spider is not listed by <URL> , so it is not forbidden to bring your pet to one of the member states if you comply with the <URL> import rules . It seems that your friend would need to apply for an import permit : For species not listed , the requirements are not known . However , exporters wanting to ship livestock or germplasm whose requirements are not listed above , should have the interested party ( importer/buyer ) in the country of destination apply for an Import Permit at the appropriate ministry . This Import Permit will most likely outline the specific requirements
Japan is an extremely safe and largely cash-based society . As I remember , if you use a cash machine the smallest amount you can withdrawal is the equivalent of 200 USD . Also , there is virtually no crime . So it is quite normal to walk around with a lot of money in cash . Second , it is no problem to pay for a small thing with a giant bill . In some countries if you pull out a # 50 note or a 100 USD bill to pay for a magazine , there is no end of scrutiny , as though you are doing the cashier a personal slight . In Japan , it 's perfectly fine , except at some vending machines . So make sure you get large bills when you change your currency -- to reduce the physical bulk in your wallet ! Personally , I would not leave this kind of money unattended in a hostel . That is simply asking for trouble . There will be no disadvantage in keeping it with you , except I suppose the possibility of losing it . If you do keep it on your person , use the typical precaution of breaking it into bundles and keeping most of it somewhere else on your person or in your bags where it wo n't be discovered every time you pay for something . All of this said , even though Japan is largely cash-based , I think it is more sensible to arrange with your bank a card with a 0 % forex rate , pay with card when you can and make cash withdrawals as you need them .
Illegal ? I doubt it , in most places . It 's purely a courtesy thing , I suspect . Maybe some jurisdictions have rules or regulations , but I 'd be astonished to see them enforced . You 're more likely to get shouted at by a taxi marshal or the taxi driver for the taxi you join , as they do n't like to see their fellow taxi drivers disadvantaged . They might well refuse to take you . Do n't forget that in most very busy places ( big airports etc. ) there is often a long ' off-site ' line you are n't seeing , so even though they look like they 've just joined the line , they may well have been waiting hours . You saving them 10 minutes from their wait is n't going to seem like a big deal to them , it 'll just look like you 're doing something odd . Having said all that , in most places ( for example , London ) taxis are n't strictly allowed to refuse a ride , as long as you fulfill all the other standard criteria ( e.g. requesting to travel within their " jurisdiction " ) . If they get disagreeable about it , insist . It might be polite to give a generous tip for a short distance , though .
Here 's my take , which is n't actually based on anything empirical as much as about a decade living on the East Coast : If you 're along the Acela corridor , served by the Acela Express and the Northeast Regional lines , your best bet is probably the train . This is rooted by two experiences : Boston Logan is built out in what is essentially the Atlantic Ocean . It also has delays and closures at the drop of a hat . I hated flying out of Logan in the winter . During the massive snow emergency last year ( Winter 2010 ) in the Eastern U.S. , the trains kept running long after the airports shut down . One train I was on was indeed crowded with people from canceled airline flights trying to make it to their destinations , and it was so apparent that Amtrak actually ran a print ad campaign in some East Coast cities about it .
I believe " standard " tubes of toothpaste are about 6 ounces or more . This would not be allowed within the US as TSA regulations limit liquids and gels to containers of at most 3.4 oz ( 100 ml ) . Larger containers which are partially empty are specifically forbidden . See <URL> .
You 're proposing to bring this device through a security checkpoint : The more interesting question is , will they even realize that it contains liquid ? Seems doubtful to me , simply because it does n't look anything like a water bottle . Chances are it 'll go right through without comment . But based solely on the device 's construction I would not want to take it in hand luggage unboxed , before arriving at your destination , because of the risk of it being damaged . And if you 're going to declare it and pay import duties on it anyway , then you may as well leave it in its sealed packaging until you get home . Which means it 'll travel a bit large for hand luggage and you 're better off sticking it in your suitcase . Besides , what are you going to do with it on the plane ?
<URL> : Passenger : Dear Lufthansa My sister is flying with Lufthansa on Thursday , from Johannesburg to Zagreb . She will be flying with her musical instrument , the violin . Please let me know how we can get permission for her to take her violin on board as hand luggage , as she can not let it out of her sight , even for a second . In the past , it was no problem to take it on board , but lately I know of some challenges . The violin in its case is les than 2 kg . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , if your sister is travelling in Economy Class , then she is allowed to bring on piece of hand luggage into the cabin . The maximum weight is 8 kg and the maximum dimensions are 55 cm x 40 cm x 23 cm . If these restrictions are not exceeded than it should n't be a problem to bring her violin into the cabin . More information about hand luggage can be found here : <URL> Passenger : Thank you . The dimensions are 15 x 25 x 85 though . Lufthansa : Dear Katrien , as one of the given dimensions is exceeded I ca n't guarantee from my side that your sister will be allowed to bring her violin into the cabin . This decision needs to be made by my colleagues at the airport . So it 's going to depend on what size your case is , I suspect , and the feelings of staff at the airport , on the day , as to whether it 's allowed as carry-on . As for checking it , Lufthansa , like other airlines does their utmost to ensure it 's safe . However , airports employ non-airline staff to handle luggage , so sometimes it 's out of Lufthansa 's control . In the event it IS damaged ( unlikely but possible ) , <URL> : Report the damage immediately at the airport Make a subsequent complaint about damage and that they 'll compensate you <URL> - roughly 1200 Euros , which can fluctuate . So ideally you 'll want good travel insurance , with your instrument itemised on that policy beforehand , with photos and details to prove it before you depart .
I just went through and looked up all the ratings . Below is the list of National Parks , sorted by rating and then by number of reviews as of September 1 , 2016 . * Glacier and Denali National Parks both stated 3.8 with no review count on the Google homepage , but 3.7 and review count when looking on Google Maps . I do not know why there is a discrepancy , but all other ratings are from the Google homepage .
What the law says In California , as in most jurisdictions , exceeding any posted speed limit is considered speeding . You can be ticketed for going 1 MPH above , <URL> . You can also be cited for speeding if you are driving faster than a <URL> , even if it 's slower than the posted speed limit . In practice It 's all about staying " street smart " . Exceeding the posted speed limit is extremely common on California freeways , even in the right lane . In fact , driving at the posted limit slower than the flow of traffic is likely to be unsafe . If you drive no faster than the surrounding traffic , and you stay alert and slow down for the Highway Patrol , you are unlikely to get ticketed . Everyone follows the same reasoning , counting on " safety in numbers " . If you are the first car in a pack or the fastest car on a wide-open road , you are definitely at risk for a speeding citation . That said , if you do get cited for speeding , " going with the flow of traffic " is a defense that is not likely to work in court . None of what I said above constitutes legal advice .
It probably depends on how your cheese grater is constructed . You can see the official list of <URL> on the TSA web site . The most relevant section seems to be the " sharp objects " section , which lists : Box Cutters Ice Axes/Ice Picks Knives - except for plastic or round bladed butter knives Meat Cleavers Razor-Type blades - such as box cutters , utility knives , and safety razor blades ( disposable razors and their cartridges are permitted ) Sabers Scissors - metal with pointed tips and blades shorter than four inches Swords - cutting or thrusting weapons , including fencing foils I suspect most cheese graters ( like the <URL> and <URL> ones below ) would not be technically classified as a sharp object . However , <URL> likely would be considered ' sharp objects ' . It also almost certainly depends on the judgement and mood of the person on duty who checks your bag . I was once forbidden to take marshmallow cream in my carry-on , because it was " liquid . " ( Try pouring marshmallow cream , and then tell me its a liquid ! )
It 's not hard to identify flights which may fly over the Grand Canyon -- but finding out which ones definitely will , and whether or not you will have a view if you take one , are a different story . With some trial and error , you can find flights that pass over the area on any of the websites that offer flight tracking , like <URL> . Grand Canyon National Park is labeled on the " Aviation Sectional " map view , and its contours are visible on that view as well as the " Earth View . " Since FlightAware and similar services show the actual reported flight paths of aircraft , they are more reliable for discovery than , for example , tools like the <URL> , which rely on purely mathematical calculations . The <URL> shows aircraft currently reports in an area , though this will include many non-commercial flights . As there is a good amount of traffic through this area headed to and from Southern California or Phoenix , you can try plugging in city pairs like MSP-LAX , SLC-PHX , or SEA-TUS in the " <URL> " for some ideas . There is a great deal of variation in actual flight paths , however . Flight plans take into account the winds and the weather , and flights are subject to rerouting by the air traffic control system . Consider that on 25 September 2014 , <URL> passed straight over the eastern Grand Canyon , but today , <URL> flies well to the northwest , bypassing it entirely . Even if you had been on the 25 September flight , you might not have had much of a view . There could have been clouds ; or the plane might have been turning , banking your side of the plane towards the sky ; or you may have passed at an angle that showed only a vague gap on the horizon , and not any view into the canyon itself . But most importantly , of course , you 'd have been flying through the area after sunset . While approaches to airports are somewhat more predictable -- airports have certain prevailing wind patterns and certain preferred runways -- the path an aircraft will take over such a large area is much less certain . If you 're really excited about the idea of flying over the Grand Canyon , I suggest you look into booking an <URL> . Otherwise , enjoy the flight as best you can , and think of any Grand Canyon sightings as a nice bonus .
If the liquid is red , it 's mostly likely alcohol ( ethanol ) , not mercury ( so less of an issue - even if it broke it would be no worse than spilling a few drops of wine ) . Even small mercury thermometers are <URL> , as Johnny says : By the TSA and some other authorities ( but Cathay Pacific , for example , does not allow them ) . So I think it should be okay , but you never know - you might lose it if some overzealous agent deems it a danger .
Most major airlines are fairly lax regarding the weight of carry-on bags - even when they do officially publish a limit . Unfortunately for you , AirNZ is an exception . Both Air NZ themselves , as well as the major airports in New Zealand , do frequently check carry-on bags and if they are over 7Kg you will be forced to check them . If your bag looks light then you 'll probably get away with it regardless of weight , but if it even remotely looks like it might be more than 7Kg then there 's a very good chance that it 's going to get weighed and rejected ...
There is catering on some local Intercity trains as well . It used to be served using small trolleys , but a few years ago they switched to backpacks and added more brands like Starbucks . The NS is not providing structured information about where they are . " On Intercity 's throughout the Netherlands and on the NS Hispeed train ... " <URL> ( Dutch ) However , you 'll have most change to find them on the longer IC tracks , e.g. : Utrecht < > Zwolle Zwolle < > Almere Utrecht < > Den Bosch Utrecht < > Deventer Zwolle < > Groningen There is some info <URL> , but I 'm not sure how acurate it is .
Several years ago IATA ( International Air Transport Association ) recognized that baggage charges on tickets which multiple carriers were a mess . For example , if you were flying a domestic flight on one airline followed by an international flight with a different airline then there was little consistency around how you would be charged for checked bags - especially if the airlines had different " free " baggage allowances . In order to resolve this problem , IATA passed Resolution 302 which sets the rules for how baggage allowances and charges should be applied on multi-airline itineraries . The rules in Resolution 302 are not simple , and they are not intended to be used directly by humans at check-in counters - but instead are intended to be built into the booking/check-in systems of airlines so that the correct price can be calculated by the system . Google will find no end of references on <URL> for you , but in short it states that the baggage rules of the " Most Significant Carrier " ( MSC ) apply . To work out the " MSC " for a flight you need to understand how IATA " regions " work , but for a simple case like an domestic flight followed by an international flight ( or vica versa ) the baggage rules/fees of the carrier operating the international flight will apply . Do not confuse which airlines rules/fees apply with who will actually charge you those fees . If you are flying a domestic flight on one airline followed by an international flight with another , then the international carriers rates will apply - but they will be charged by the first airline you fly - ie , the domestic carrier . The implementation of this resolution by carriers is still patchy . Although most ( all ? ) larger airlines have implemented the rules , many smaller/regional carriers have not . There are also issues introduced when non-standard rules apply to a passenger , such as when you have status on an airline which results in free baggage ( especially for a flight other than the first ) where the systems are not necessarily capable of correctly calculating the fees .
The restrictions made by the Congress on those possessing Iranian nationality are only to the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . Canada is not a participant in the Visa Waiver Program . Canadians entering the US on Canadian passports do not do so under the VWP . I do not believe your parents will be affected by these changes . <URL>
I am not sure about the skyscrapers , but it is definitely possible to access <URL> , which is right in the centre of the city .
end question
start question
Will I get the TSA Precheck benefits if I purchase Global Entry ?
Yes . If you are approved for Global Entry ( the standards around criminal history are more stringent than for Precheck alone ) , you will receive a Known Traveler Number that you may supply with your airline reservations and you will be eligible for Precheck ( assuming you 're flying a participating airline , at a participating airport , and you are n't randomly selected for more intense screening ) . It will work the same as if you applied for TSA Precheck . Applying for Global Entry requires that you be interviewed by CBP at their <URL> , which are different locations from the TSA Precheck enrollment centers . Global Entry reserves the right to disqualify you for basically any criminal history or even just a fishy history with CBP , while <URL> follows a more constrained set of rules where even pretty serious offenses are ok if enough time has passed . People have had <URL> with Global Entry applications , though many are obviously accepted without incident . If you are denied for Global Entry , you wo n't get either Global Entry or TSA Precheck and will be out the application fee , requiring you to apply again just for TSA Precheck if you qualify for that . Note also ( with thanks to James McLeod in comments ) the existance of the <URL> , which includes both Global Entry and TSA Precheck benefits along with expedited entry into Canada . Best of all , it only costs $ 50 for five years . The catch is that you can only enroll at limited locations near the US-Canada border , and the eligibility requirements are a bit different ( must be a US or Canadian citizen or permanent resident ) . There 's a handy <URL> of all the trusted traveler programs you can consult to decide which is best for you . Weirdly , according to the chart , Canadian permanent residents will not receive TSA Precheck with NEXUS though . For an <URL> : If you are a member of Global Entry ( GE ) , you do not need to sign up separately for TSA 's PreCheck program . TSA PreCheck is an added no-cost benefit offered to members of Global Entry , when passport and fingerprints are on file in our systems . Note that your Global Entry application , passport , and airline reservations all must use the same name for this to work . Personally , I 'd go for Global Entry unless getting to an enrollment center was inconvenient or you have a concern that you might not be approved and do n't want to risk wasting the money or time .
A UK entry clearance gives you ' formal ' permission to arrive/depart any time between its start and end dates . The form asked for your travel dates so that they can try to align the visa 's start date so that your time in the UK is maximized . Once the entry clearance has been issued , it 's ok to change your actual travel date . You can arrive at 12:01 AM on the start date of your visa or any time after that over the visa 's life time . Trying to arrive earlier than the start date is not allowed . And remember , you will still have a landing interview , and if your actual dates somehow contradict the premise of your visit , the IO may become worried . Also remember that you signed an agreement to advise the British issuing post of any significant changes in your circumstances . It 's down to you to determine if your change of plans is derived from a reportable event .
Charging fees per guest is very unusual for the US hotels . Most charge per room , and as long as the room legal max occupancy is n't exceed , they do n't care how many people are there . Typical max occupancy is two adults ( sometime two adults and two children ) , and when you book your hotel , the booking site typically tells you this . You can test it yourself when you book your hotel by first trying to book it as " 1 adult 1 room " , and then as " 2 adults 1 room " . If you can book the same room , you 're not exceeding max occupancy , and if the price does n't increase , there are no per-guest fees . Also many US hotels , especially in the lower segment ( Motel 6 , Super 8 etc ) have open planning , meaning their doors open into the courtyard which is also a parking lot , meaning the hotel staff does n't even see you entering your room . To summarize , the easiest way would be for you to : Book a room for two adults ; Tell the hotel during check-in that your girlfriend will join you later : If you only hear back ' huh-huh ' ( I 'd say in US hotel this is 95 % probability ) , you can assume they do n't care . If they say she needs to stop by the front desk and show her ID , ask what if she arrives at 4:30 am ? If they still insist , then they do care , and in this case it is worth stopping by and showing her ID . If they say she can stop next morning , where you 'd be already leaving , then they do n't really care .
The TSA was created by the <URL> , which also empowers it to make and enforce regulations , and gives the executive branch the authority to press charges . In addition there are also FAA regulations which are also authorized by the Congress . Acting against the TSA/FAA regulations is acting against regulations placed by an agency authorized by the Congress to place it . It makes it illegal . Consider " Speed Limit " sign - there 's no law for every street and road limiting speed on that particular road . But there 's a law allowing designated agencies to put and enforce speed limits on various roads based on various conditions . TSA regulations are similar in nature .
Australia like most other countries have <URL> which is currently governed by <URL> . In addition there are rules for <URL> . And while Public Nuisance may not qualify as a <URL> , although there was a <URL> , you may not pass the <URL> which states among other things : having regard to the person 's past and present general conduct , the person is found to be not of good character This means that it is within the discretion of the Immigration authority to deny you visa if they find this sufficient cause to do so . So I would direct the question to an Australian Consulate on whether your particular case need to be reported as criminal record . As far as payment of a fine is concerned you can look at the results on <URL> which lists payment facilities for various states in Australia .
GoSim 's " Global Number " is just a term for the UK ( +44 ) number they allocate to your phone . When you are in any of a relatively large number of countries , you do n't pay to receive a call when someone calls your " Global Number " . The reason they can do this because the number they allocate you is a UK " non-geographic " number , which charge a premium to the caller , and GoSim receive a percentage of that premium - basically the caller is subsidizing the call so that you can receive it for free . Some other similar companies work on the same principle but instead use numbers from the Isle of Man or Estonia . ( GoSim used to use Estonia +372 numbers , but changed a year or so ago ) . GoSim also give the option of a US number , which may be more convenient and frequently cheaper for the caller depending on what country they they are calling from , however you will be charged to receive the call whenever someone calls you on that number . This charge is because the caller is no longer paying extra to call the premium UK number .
There are two answers here . The correct thing to do would be to get an <URL> ( " Temporary Admission " ) , which basically certifies that whatever you 're importing is going to go back out again , so you do n't have to pay taxes and duties on it . <URL> , although there are some awkward conditions about them being " restricted to goods imported for display or use at approved exhibitions / fairs and similar events " , although this is <URL> . Opting for this route will entail a full-on battle with Indian bureaucracy and you will almost certainly want to engage professional assistance . If you ca n't get a carnet , you 'll need to post a Customs bond equivalent to the value of the taxes and duties you 're not paying , which will be even worse to deal with . In case that all sounds too scary , the practical thing to do would be to just import it with no declaration of any kind and hope Customs does n't realize how valuable your item is . The odds of success are 99 % , particularly if you 're white ( unfortunate but true ) and can project the well-connected-businessman-so-don ' t-even-think-of-hassling-me vibe ... but it could get seriously complicated and expensive if you luck out .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
Your passport and visa ( and I-94 , see below ) should , on theory , be sufficient . Also , you should know the address of the place you 'll be staying when you arrive , and the name of your employer and what kind of work you 'll be doing . However , definitely bring all key paperwork with you in your carry-on luggage , for two reasons : This is important stuff that you may need in the future - either because you have to produce it or because you want to be consistent in how you fill out forms . You do not want these documents to travel to Hawaii instead and stay there . In case there 's anything wrong with your documents ( I had an official signature missing once , I 've seen people mis-entered into the system ) , it 's very important that you can demonstrate that you did everything right and that you are fully documented . In principle they can reject you regardless of whose fault it was that your paperwork got messed up , but the will be much more lenient if they realize that you 're just some poor schmuck failed by the system . Otherwise , just relax , smile , and go to the bathroom before standing in line . Be polite , accept that they 're always right , and trust that you 're one of the many , many people who enter the US without any problems . EDIT Please note that even if you have signed up for ESTA ( which means that you do n't need to fill out the green I-94 form ) , you have to fill out the white I-94 for visa holders , since you 're entering with a work visa , rather than under a tourist visa waiver program ! The I-94 will be distributed during the flight . If it 's the first time you fill out such a form , ask the Flight Attendant for two copies :)
For a variety of reasons , unlike most countries , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . To repeat with a footnote , there is no sterile international transit through the United States . * For a foreign traveler , even a Canadian , this is a darn good reason to <URL> * The Transit Without Visa ( TWOV ) and International-to-International ( ITI ) programs were suspended in 2003 ; all passengers connecting from and to international flights must obtain a <URL> or be covered under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . If your flight is " <URL> , " say SNN-JFK or YUL-DCA , you will be processed for health , agriculture , customs , and passport/immigration at your departing airport . Your flight into the U.S. in effect becomes a " domestic " one and your transit " domestic " as well . But Costa Rica does not have a pre-clearance treaty with the U.S. , so that is besides the point . In other words , there is no transit lounge in an airport where through passengers can wait to transfer to an outbound flight . Upon landing at your gateway airport , all passengers will disembark directly to a processing facility where they will claim their bags and go through customs and immigration procedures for entry into the United States . An immigration officer can not just take your word that you are immediately connecting to an outbound international flight , because once you have been stamped in , you are inside the United States , and could simply leave the airport if you wanted to . So if they have cause to deny you admission to the U.S. , they will deny you . As when you are denied entry to any country , the airline that brought you there is required to fly you back to your port of embarkation on the first available flight . I do not know if you would even be allowed to use your onward ticket . So , given the risk of having your trip ruined , it seems a worthy investment to avoid connecting in the U.S. and/or to get some legal advice on removing whatever blocks there are to your admission to the U.S.
AA reserve seats in coach for their frequent flyers . They provide most , but not necessarily all of these for payment if the passenger does not qualify by status . These are the preferential seats such as aisle seats near to the front , main cabin extra seats or exit row seats . All the seats available for free are no longer available and you must pay if you wish to select a seat . If you do not wish to pay for a seat , AA will start providing these seats for free as the flight approaches , or at the gate , including the MCE seats with extra legroom . It 's unlikely that you will be sat next to your partner however . If the flight ends up oversold , AA is required to seek volunteers for voluntary denied boarding ( VDB ) compensation prior to selecting passengers for involuntary denied boarding ( IDB ) . These passengers will be compensated too . The answer to your question is the risk you will not have a seat is low if you do n't pay now . Make sure you check in as soon as possible as that is one of the selection criteria for IDB .
An adult cicada will not shed its skin , rather a young nymph will shed it exoskeleton as it grows . Likely what you are talking about is the final shedding when the nymph emerges to become a winged adult cicada . I never knew cicada shells were popular in the USA ( they are in China ) as there are plenty of cicadas in the USA . You can bring a shell in * , as long as there are no body parts or debris left inside the shell . Agricultural agents are looking for any thing that might harbor eggs , larva or other insects . But that said , ultimately it is up to the agent inspecting your shell to allow it or destroy it . Being able to bring it in is not guaranteed , even if you meet all the rules . * Under 7 CFR 330.200 , " Biological specimens of plant pests , in preservative or dried , may be imported without further restriction under this part , but subject to inspection on arrival in the United States to confirm the nature of the material and freedom from risk of plant pest dissemination . "
Following is <URL> . The key para within this is : ( 2 ) to arrest any alien who in his presence or view is entering or attempting to enter the United States in violation of any law or regulation made in pursuance of law regulating the admission , exclusion , expulsion , or removal of aliens , or to arrest any alien in the United States , if he has reason to believe that the alien so arrested is in the United States in violation of any such law or regulation and is likely to escape before a warrant can be obtained for his arrest , but the alien arrested sh all be taken without unnecessary delay for examination before an officer of the Service having authority to examine aliens as to their right to enter or remain in the United States They have the powers to deny you entry but this again is tracked , recorded and in most situations the immigration officers are very vigilant not to allow their personal beliefs and apprehensions dilute the facts of the case at hand . It is true that they might not be polite with you or behave in manner showing respect - but when it comes to denying entry - they would be very careful not to be seen as biased or prejudiced . One has ability to <URL> . This would then become a fight which one can take it to a finish if one is committed enough . But yes as mentioned in the question here - there are chances of one being denied entry with no proper reasons which depends on the type of immigration officer one encounters
Almost certainly your " exit " was recorded when you left the country , despite the fact that they did n't take the card . The airline provides these details to the US government , and they are tracked using that rather than the I-94 itself ( this is one of the reasons that the I-94 cards are no longer used when entering by air ) . Your can confirm this by going to the <URL> and clicking on " get their I-94 Number " . You can then request a " Travel History " which will show all entries and exits from the US . If your exit is correctly recorded then you can simply throw away from I-94 . If the exit has not been correctly recorded , but you have subsequent entries/exits ( which it sounds like you do ) , then you can also safely throw away the I-94 - but I would suggest keeping a copy of any " proof " that you have related to when you left the US on that trip ( eg , copies of flight itineraries , tickets , etc ) just in case it ever becomes an issue - although the odds of that are extremely low . As a more generic answer , if you have not had any subsequent entries to the US then you can post the I-94 back to the US DHS/CBP , as <URL> .
Yes , they are both members of the Star Alliance . So , for being gold on USAirways , you are automatically " Star Gold , " across the entire Star Alliance network . The benefit of first class upgrades ( unfortunately ) is NOT one that you will be able to get when flying on Continental . That being said , most other benefits are reciprocal . For example , priority boarding ? Yup ! Lounge access ( when flying internationally ) ? Yup ! Free checked bag with a higher weight limit ? Yup ! The next question is about miles . Because they are both in the Star Alliance , you can redeem your USAirways miles for flights on Continental , or any of the other 26 + partners they have . Same goes for anyone with Continental miles - they could redeem for flights on USAirways or any of the other 26 + partners as well . So , the key is to not have a few thousand with CO and a few thousand with US . If you 're flying on Continental OR USAirways , make sure you earn miles on USAirways . It will not only help you keep your elite status , but will help you earn miles to later use on partner flights . Be careful though ... Not all flights will earn 100 % of the miles you actually fly . For a full list of which " fares " will earn you miles , check out <URL> . It shows which Continental flights you will be able to earn USAirways miles on . For US ' other partners , <URL> is the link you want to check to ensure you can earn miles . It will show you ALL of their airline partners and which flights you can earn miles on .
Cell phones run on two different types of networks : GSM and CDMA . These network types themselves are subdivided into various bands ( e.g. GSM 850 MHz ) . Most recent phones will support a wide range of bands within one network type . GSM is predominant in most countries except the US , which uses both . To verify that your current phone will work in another country , you first need to find out which bands your phone works on . This will be listed on the technical specifications , which you may be able to find online ( if you ca n't , try calling your carrier ) . You 'll then need to check which bands are used by carriers in the country you 're going to . Wikipedia is good for this -- for example , <URL> . Data basically works the same way , although it is a bit more complicated . Basically , there are a number of different network technologies : HSDPA , HSUPA , HSPA , HSPA + , LTE ( I 'm not sure how complete this list is ) . The best way to do this is to check Wikipedia and work backwards ( if their network supports , say , 1800 MHz LTE , you 'll want to check if your phone does ) . In addition , if your phone has not been unlocked , you will be forced to keep using your current SIM . This seems to be what you 're planning to do , but I just want to emphasize that switching to a local SIM will not work , so if your carrier is willing to unlock your phone , do get that done . The other thing to make sure to do is check with your carrier is that you do have international roaming enabled . If not , your phone basically wo n't work outside of the US , and it 's a lot easier to get that enabled before you travel instead of trying to dial your carrier from abroad .
You can buy an Octopus at basically at all transport terminals . This includes all MTR stations ( including the airport ) , major light rail stations , major bus and ferry terminals , etc. . Look for the " Customer Service Centre " , which is basically the manned ticket booth .
Like any country , a visa is just an endorsement allowing you a specific period of time in a country based on your citizenship ( and other potential factors ) . However , once you 're at the border , the border agents / authorities can and will still make a further assessment . They might evaluate : your ability to support yourself while in the country your intent in the country ( you might be on a tourist visa , but they suspect you 're coming to work/do business ) your possessions ( eg if found with something illegal ) your history ( some countries wo n't let you in if your passport shows you 've been to countries that they 're not fans of ) as a result , yes , even if you have a legitimate visa , it 's still possible ( generally unlikely , but possible ) for you to be rejected at the border . For another question we have which is related to this , see <URL>
I never found the stereotypical rude Parisian I was warned about . Several people went far out of their way to help me in ways I would n't expect in my own city . I did not find a great number of people outside the tourism industry in Paris that spoke English . I did always use the French words and phrases I knew " excusez moi " , " salut " , " merci " , and if I could struggle by with those I would n't even ask " parlez vous anglaise " I got the impression people appreciated that . Using single words goes far , French or English , if you ca n't form a sentence . If you manage to form a broken sentence people will often help out by correcting your mistakes ! More people know more English vocabulary that you know French vocabulary but may not be able to make or parse English sentences . Be patient . Smile a lot . Never act rude or arrogant . Do n't talk loud when people do n't understand . When you get to your hotel or tourist information people will be able to speak English .
end question
start question
What regulations should a European driver know when driving in the US ?
The other two answers pretty well covered things , but here are a few more notes : <URL> ( In other words , one can treat the red light as a stop sign . ) In some ( maybe all ? ) states , one can be ticketed for driving too slow , even if there is no posted minimum speed limit . ( The citation is usually for something like , " Impeding the flow of traffic . " ) In most states , it is illegal to be seen drinking alcohol in public , including ( and especially ) as a passenger in a car . However , <URL> . In Mississippi , it is still legal for drivers to consume alcohol while driving , as long as their blood alcohol content is below 0.08 % . From personal experience , I 've noticed that in some European countries it is common for cars that are about to overtake on a highway to hover for a while between two lanes ( I saw this a lot in Iberia ) . Also , in Scandanavia in particular , I saw a lot of cars in the right lane actually move onto the shoulder while being overtaken . In my experience , I have never seen either of these practices in the US , and they likely violate many states ' regulations . Given the automotive boom of the mid-20th century , many large , multi-lane roads were built . As such , putting traffic lights at the intersections of these 3 + lane roads to allow left turns became a bottleneck . Therefore , some states implemented other means of turning left on large roads . For example , the <URL> is very common , especially in the Northeast . The " <URL> " is also very common in Michegan . This last note is n't so much about regulations , but I 'd highly recommend bringing or renting a GPS/SatNav . Unlike in most of Europe , I find signage in the US to be particularly bad . For example , in Europe there are often signs in the countryside pointing one to the direction for the nearest cities . In the US , such signs usually only point to the closest highway , so unless you know specifically which highway will point you to your destination , you may be out of luck . Additions ( 2011-07-19 ) : In an increasing number of states , it is illegal to operate a mobile phone while driving . The wording of the laws varies by state ; in some it is even illegal to touch a mobile phone while driving . In most ( if not all ) states it is okay to use a hands-free device ( e.g. , a bluetooth headset ) , though . In some states ( e.g. , Oregon and New Jersey ) it is illegal to pump your own fuel ; all of the gas stations are " full service " ( i.e. , an attendant must pump the fuel for you ) . In these states it is not necessary for you to tip the attendant for his or her service , although I am sure it is appreciated . I am not sure about Oregon , but at least in New Jersey I know that it is illegal to exit your vehicle while your fuel is being pumped ( presumably for the safety of the attendant ) . I believe these laws were enacted in the late 1940s/early 1950s because the government thought that pumping fuel was too difficult and hazardous an activity for the average motorist . The laws have probably persisted because repealing them would mean the loss of a great number of gas attendant jobs . In Oregon , it is possible to find yourself stranded after hours in the middle of nowhere until the gas station opens , so plan ahead . If you plan on using a radar detector , <URL> ( much in the same way that they vary by country in Europe ) . In general , it is legal to use a radar detector in all states except Virginia and Washington , D.C. . In some states ( e.g. , Minnesota and California ) , it is illegal to mount the radar detector from the windshield , since it obstructs the driver 's vision .
I think the current usual solution is to get a debit card ( or failing that a credit card ) with low/no foreign transaction and cash withdrawl fees . ( In the UK , the Halifax Clarity Card is the best for this at the moment ) Then , when you get to the country , take out cash periodically . Not too much in case of issues , but do n't assume you can do it too often as you may not always be able to find a cash machine depending on where you are . It 's worth getting a little bit of currency before you go ( if you do n't have it left over from another trip ) , so you can buy a coffee while you wait for everyone who got off the plane quicker than you to finish using the cash machine at the port/airport/station ! Edit : Since you 've said you 're in the US , I ca n't suggest the best card for you to get to avoid/minimise foreign transaction fees , but asking on the <URL> is likely the best bet for finding out what that card is .
If you are a foreigner then it is ok , you can show them or hide them no one will actually care . It is not something common there for middle easterners to have but people do not judge foreigners for having or showing them . Regarding Egypt in particular , it is common for criminals and people who been prisoned to have them , so that will be the first impression . The answer in that question was meant for a person who wants to blend in and look like Egyptian . But for a tourist it is totally fine to show them . I live in Saudi Arabia which is considered to be the most conservative country in the middle east and locals do not make tattoos at all but we totally accept foreigners with tattoos like they do not have it ...
Are there any statistics showing the likelihood of mainland Europeans crashing in the UK ? ( my emphasis ) No , not that I can easily find , Rural Scotland The Scottish government publish the following : Tourist activity does significantly boost road accident numbers in the rural tourist areas of Scotland and visitor drivers , including foreign drivers , are involved in a measurably greater number of accidents in the case study areas . Half of the drivers involved in accidents in Scotland were within 5km of their home address and fewer than 2 % were more than 240 km from it . However in the police areas of Grampian , which includes Aberdeenshire and Northern which contains Highland , fewer of the accidents involved drivers who were close to their homes . The involvement of tourists compared with locals in road accidents is probably not excessive in relation to their numbers and the increased mileage they probably drive . The exposure data for foreign drivers is not adequate to establish whether they are at greater risk of an accident than local drivers . The majority of accidents caused by foreign drivers arose from the drivers ' unfamiliarity with driving on the left hand side of the road . The accidents caused by UK visitor drivers may reflect their lack of driving and overtaking experience on rural single carriageway roads , since the crashes in which they were judged to be at fault involved losing control , the negotiation of bends and collision with pedestrians or animals . Local drivers who had caused an accident were most likely to have lost control or to have been driving too fast . <URL> Note the second point there . It may be important to distinguish between " tourists " , " foreign drivers " and " UK visitor drivers " - It is n't immediately obvious if the authors include Welsh , English and Northern Irish tourists in " foreign drivers " . The fourth bullet point suggests not . It is also worth noting that driving on rural roads in Scotland is very different from driving through London in the rush hour . The report draws this useful conclusion : The data revealed that foreign drivers appear to have difficulty remembering which side of the carriageway to drive on . This may occur when no other traffic is around or when they come to the end of a single track road and rejoin a two lane single carriageway , or at view points and resting places So , drill yourself to pay extra attention in those situations :-) UK in general There are some other UK statistics that might be used to produce some measure of the additional risk - if other data could also be found . For foreign truck-drivers , the accident rates on motorways are eight times higher . A third of accidents involving foreign lorries happen on motorways -- nearly eight times higher than the national average rate for the UK 's 70 mph highways -- with experts blaming drivers unfamiliar with UK highways , driving on the ' opposite ' side of the road and often blind-sided . <URL> For foreign drivers in general , there were 18,865 accidents in the UK in 2006 giving rise to insurance claims . Insurance claims involving foreign EU drivers in the UK have grown every year from 2001 to 2006 according to data from the Motor Insurers Bureau ( MIB ) . Since 2001 , collisions involving EU drivers have risen by 61.4 % from 11,685 to 18,865 . <URL> Unfortunately these figures are insufficient to work out the increased likelihood of foreign drivers having an accident in the UK - I think I would need to find numbers of drivers ( and/or road-miles traveled ) for each group )
According to <URL> ( in Dutch ) the <URL> , you 're required to have a warning triangle and a safety vest . While a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are only required for Belgian drivers , they still recommend taking them as well . Another <URL> says that local police does not always take into account that some rules do n't apply to cars registered in foreign countries . Legally speaking there is a difference between rules that apply to the car and rules that apply to the behavior of the driver . The requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are legally specified as rules that apply to the car , and therefore only apply to cars registered in Belgium . As for the warning triangle and safety vest , <URL> ( in Dutch ) , the Belgian law does not state that these are required to be present in a car , like the other two items , but instead specifies that when leaving the car in the middle of the road , you need to be wearing a safety vest . If you have an accident , you 're required to put out a safety triangle . So you 're not technically required to have these items in the car , but it would be difficult to follow the law otherwise . For the safety vest this was quite literally explained in a <URL> : La modification du Code de la Route ne s ' accompagne pas d'une adaptation de la réglementation technique des véhicules . En effet , si la veste réfléchissante était imposée comme équipement obligatoire du véhicule , seuls ceux immatriculés en Belgique seraient concernés . Il est donc plus logique d'introduire cette obligation sous la forme d'une règle de comportement même si l'utilisation de cette veste suppose nécessairement que le conducteur en dispose d'une dans son véhicule . Translated , this says : The modification of the highway code is not accompanied by an adaptation of the technical regulations for vehicles . Should the safety vest be imposed as an obligatory equipment of the vehicle , then this regulation would only apply to vehicles registered in Belgium . It therefore makes more sense to introduce this obligation as a rule of behavior , although the use of the safety vest necessarily implies that the driver has one in his vehicle . Edit : It has been pointed out to me that Belgian law does also have a rule for safety vests which applies to the car . This is the result of a <URL> . It was issued about 2 years after the above one , in 2009 . As they stand , there is now a behavioral rule which applies to anyone driving in Belgium , and a car equipment rule which applies to any car registered in Belgium . There is no accompanying text for the 2009 Royal Order which explains why the extra rule was introduced after all . I suspect the first one did not give enough legal basis to fine people for not having the safety vest in the car , as it only " implied " you needed to have one . As far as I know , the requirement of having a fire extinguisher and first aid kit are ( still ) only specified as rules that apply to the car . However , in summary , rather than trying to argue the finer points of these legal distinctions with local police , I would recommend following the advice of the Royal Dutch Touring Club by simply taking all four items . It avoids the need for discussion , the possibility of fines , and they might be useful if you do have an accident .
I 'm not familiar with regulations and expectations in Clinton Hill , but in general for Brooklyn : Is this legal ? Yes , and it turns out , necessary . Is it safe ? Different neighborhoods have different levels of safety , and I 'm not sure how to compare to where you live in Ecuador , but most people who own a vehicle in a residential neighborhood do it . Is it possible ( or advisable ) to leave your car overnight parked on the street ? There is very little parking in the residential neighborhoods , so almost all of the residents leave their cars parked in the streets over night , as there is no alternative . On thing you should be aware of is alternate side of the street parking rules . These rules are in place to allow for street cleaning and the specifics will be posted on signs in your neighborhood . The general rule is that on a specific day of the week for a specific time window , no parking is allowed on one side of the street . You may not get caught , but if the street sweeper shows up and your car is parked on that side , you will get a ticket and possibly towed . As an example , for your street maybe Tuesdays from 8-12 you can not park on the left side and Wednesday from 12-4 you can not park on the right . This has become a way of life in these neighborhoods and if you are around at the start or end times you will often see people watching for an open spot so the can move as soon as the time changes .
Indonesia uses European-style two-pin round plugs ( ' C ' - type is the most common variant found ) : Voltage is at 220 V 50 Hz ( as opposed to 110 V 60 Hz in US ) . Most modern electronic equipment that has auto-sensing capability should work without needing a voltage converter , you will need a plug adapter though which can buy cheap online . As for Apple products specifically have a look at <URL> .
I am the Online Media Specialist for STL Metro , and I can see your point that rules and regulations may not have a cohesive home on the website . Are there specific questions I can answer for you ? Basic riding rules including must have valid fare , no eating or drinking , no loud music , no pets except for service animals , no leaving your bags unattended .
It depends on the terms of your travel insurance . Usually these insurances include some extras that are not covered by EHIC . Here is a non-exhaustive list of services they can offer , and that are not offered by the basic insurance : Repatriation services , including repatriation by plane . Services for family members . If you get sick during the holidays , they take care of your dependents . If you have to cancel a holiday because of health reasons ( or related ) they can cover cancellation fees . Or fees that arise when you have to interrupt your holiday prematurely . They cover extra costs for doctor visits , medical treatments or hospital stays , not covered by the EHIC . They reimburse costs for special mountain rescues , e.g. when you go skiing . They provide assistance in the case of lost luggage . They provide assistance in the tragic case where you or one of your family members dies abroad . If all these services are covered or if there are other elements covered , and to what extent the are covered , depends on the precise terms and conditions . Just read them or talk to your insurance broker . Or get into contact with a consumers ' association if you want a more neutral point of view . Insurance regulations can differ from one country to another , even in the EU .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
If you can stay in or near the new ' SoMo ' area - south of Moorhouse Ave , it 's the new vibrant post-quake rebuild area . My understanding is that the are some accommodation hostel / guest house spots open nearby . If you 're eyeing up motels , then Riccarton Road ( Riccarton area ) - there are lots in Papanui / Merivale as well but that area has been hit harder . There 's a mall and lots of restaurants in the area . Both ' SoMo ' and Riccarton have become more focused ' nightlife ' areas since the quakes . Riccarton will have more students , while SoMo is a slightly older demographic - late 20s/30s ( although depending on events on that night this can easily change ) .
What I can tell you about northern Italy ( anywhere between Milano and Venice ) is that the cities basically closes down in August ( except for tourist destinations such as museums and churches ) , and even more so in the afternoon . If you will be walking the streets of any town in that area ( Modena , Padua , Ravenna , Verona , etc ) , it will be like in a Zombie movie - except no Zombies . The city will wake up again in the late afternoon once the sunlight begins to fade . If you have been walking around in the afternoon , you will be ready to take a nap right when everyone wakes up and goes down to the street to take a drink . So the best is to do as the locals do : Get up at 8:00 -9:00 to get breakfast , buy something at the local markets , maybe have an early lunch , visit a museum . Then go to bed , take a nap , wake up at 6:00 pm and start at the local cafe with a cocktail , stay up until 2am carousing the streets , stopping everywhere to enjoy , rinse &amp; repeat . Now Venice is a different animal . Since it is THAT popular with tourists , you need to prepare mentally and physically for what you are up to . ANY tourist destination at all , wherever you go , as opposed to even the most famous places west of Venice will be packed . And with packed I mean 2 + hours of waiting time to get in . It 's literally insane . You will not want to do it . On top of that , the prices are ridiculous . Venice is best in October or similar , in August , all the world will be there , and you will be at the end of the line . My recommendation would be for an unforgettable holiday , if you chose to go to this area : Get a list of the world heritage sites in that area , there a MANY . Book small hotels right between the towns , not in the town center , they hardly cost anything . If you want to spend more , there are AMAZING boutique hotels right downtown rent a cheap , small car , the distances are small anyhow enjoy . You will not have seen Venice , but you will have seen a large , culturally and historically VERY important part of Europe : The <URL> , the 2000 year old mosaics of <URL> , the <URL> ( with the Ferrari HQ ) , <URL> , <URL> and many more . You can spend a day in each city and never stop being fascinated about the architecture , the churches and the general feel of italian summer - with VERY few people around . They are ALL in venice .
The <URL> has a page about your rights to camp in Iceland . Camping with no more than three tents is allowed on uncultivated ground for a single night , unless the landowner has posted a notice to the contrary . However , campers should always use designated campsites where they do exist . Do not camp close to farms without permission . If a group of more than three tents is involved , these campers must seek permission from the landowner before setting up camp outside marked campsite areas . So , if there is no sign , and the land is n't being used to grow things , you have the right to camp there for one night . That is pretty much all the law says . So , yes you can camp at the side of the road , IF there is a place to park your car . You should not park your car on the land . Do not drive off the road or track . Motor vehicles can leave marks that last for generations . Driving off roads or tracks is against the law except when the ground is frozen and covered in snow . See further information under " Practical Information/Driving in Iceland " . Staying away from houses is just a basic courtesy . The best rule of thumb to follow in my experience is to never be close enough that you can see anything in the windows , and definitely stay away from gardens and obviously enclosed personal space . 300 meters at the minimum . Sources : <URL> my own personal experiences camping in the wild in Iceland , Sweden and Finland .
In my experience there are two situations where people tend to get on the wrong side of the road : After stopping for whatever reason . If you 're thinking about something else when you get back in your car and start driving , you can very easily do the wrong thing based on your usual driving side . Visualise how you 're going to start out ( enter the street ) before you start driving . When transitioning from a narrow ( perhaps a winding mountain ) road to a wider one . This is particularly important if you are in an area with one lane bridges . Here in New Zealand , the road is often marked with a forward arrow in the correct ( left ) lane when the two lane road resumes . It is also helpful to have somebody else in the car who is paying attention to your driving and can let you know if you 're doing ( or about to do ) something wrong . Another pair of eyes definitely helps . For lane changing , well I 've never driven in India so all I know is what I 've seen in pictures and videos . I understand the concept of " lanes " is not widespread . In the US , generally you can change lanes whenever there is a broken white line between the lanes ( assuming both lanes are in the same travel direction ) . Signal your intention to change at least a couple of seconds in advance . Do n't change lanes while going through an intersection . There are likely many online driving tests for any particular US state that you intend to drive in . It might be helpful to run through some practice tests if you are unsure what you need to know . Most rules are the same throughout the country , but some states have particular rules you may need to know ( rules that often vary are things like U-turns and right turns on red ) .
It has an impact , but it is n't problematic . The Sabbath runs from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown , though in practice it could extend from Friday afternoon to Sunday morning . In planning your trip , it is much like planning in other countries where shops are closed on Sundays or museums are only open on certain days . The key thing is to plan your time carefully around these limitations . From our trip to Israel , I was probably most surprised by the fairly large Arab population . Since their holy day is on Friday , their shops are open on Saturday during the Sabbath and the Jewish shops are open on Friday when the Arab shops are closed . At least in the places we visited , there was always something that was open . I think the most problematic aspect of the Sabbath in our trip planning was public transport . However , we ended up renting a car , so it was n't a concern for us .
Have you canoed along the rivers there ? It provides a different aspect on the countryside . Have you visited any of the vineyards for tastings ? Have you explored the goat cheeses produced in the area ?
Anything not going through Switzerland will be much cheaper . Switzerland sells annual toll tickets ( 'M ärkli ' ) only , which for a single trip easily beats any other toll . Each countries ' toll road agencies will have websites where you can calculate the expected amounts . Note that in some countries , different toll roads are handled by different agencies .
The IDP is only valid together with a regular driver 's license . It might be necessary or not but it does not replace the original license . In Florida , it 's actually <URL> . So the real question is wether your original license is recognized in the relevant jurisdiction . Apparently , all licenses from countries party to the 1949 Geneva Convention on Road Traffic ( which India is ) allow tourists to <URL> . So you should be fine , at least if you are only visiting for a short time .
In principle , maybe not . In practice , <URL> For a closed loop cruise ( one which leaves and enters through the same port ) , a US citizen does not need a passport to renter the country . They do need you to present some sort of proof of identity and citizenship , such as a birth certificate or government issued ID . That said however , it is highly likely that the passport will be needed in order to disembark from the ship at a port of call - and furthermore many cruise lines , in order to reduce their administrative load , will simply require all passengers to present a passport before boarding . Specifically in the case of the Bahamas , <URL> In the end , the best and most important thing to do is check with the cruise line , but it 's most likely that the answer is going to be yes - especially if they have any intention of , y' know , getting off the boat . Which they should ! In that case , they need passports , or , if they are residents of Michigan , New York , Vermont or Washington , they could get by with an Enhanced Drivers License .
Driving the road is 830 miles and not that hard except for the narrow roads , blind curves , etc. . There are villages all around the coast of Iceland . <URL> . Now driving in the unpopulated highlands ( the desert part in the middle ) means driving in areas where there are no gas stations , no farms , no towing and you may have to drive across rivers . Here is a <URL> of driving in Iceland . As you can see , at the time I 'm writing , most all interior roads are impassable . The roads do open up in the summer . Travel guides advise taking spare parts and gasoline . One of the highland roads , <URL> , has an interesting name -- it means Bursting-sand , as in the trail that was long and dangerous enough that you 'd ride your horse as fast as possible ( until they burst ) , or else you 'd run out of food or run into dangerous weather along the way .
end question
start question
Can I search for a train ticket from A to C via B ?
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
For most purposes , German train tickets have three price categories : local and regional trains ( branded S , RB or RE ) , ' regular ' long-distance trains ( IC or EC ) and ' express ' long-distance trains ( ICE ) . Your ticket is only valid for transport in the cheapest train categories ( S , RB or RE ) . The easiest option to find only these trains in the DB route planner is to tick the check-box for ' local transport ' . You can also select ' further search options ' and under ' connections / less means of transport ' select exactly which train category to search for .
Yes , you do need one . The US does n't share the concept of " in international transit " that a lot of other countries have . When you step off a plane on US soil [ * ] , you must clear US customs and immigration . Only then can you proceed to board your next flight . The DHS have an entry about this in their <URL> : Do nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require travel authorization if they are only transiting the United States in route to another country ? Eligible nationals or citizens of countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program require either a travel authorization or a visa to transit the United States . If a traveler is only planning to transit through the United States en route to another country , when he or she completes the travel authorization application in ESTA , the traveler should enter the words " In Transit " and his or her final destination location in the address lines in the Address While In The United States field on the application . . [ * ] In a few places ( such as Canada an Ireland ) , they have juxtaposed border controls and you end up clearing US customs and immigration before boarding the plane . Either way , you still need to clear immigration on an international connection .
<URL> sounds similar to what you are looking for . It presents fares in cash/miles/points , and lets you specify how many points you have in various award accounts . The results are ranked via " the best ways to pay based on your rewards " . A major drawback is that the service can not be used for American , Delta , or Southwest .
<URL> offers a very rudimentary version of this service , and has recently added prices ( no idea how accurate they are ) , to at least some searches .
<URL> allows ' today ' flight searches . You should also be able to make bookings with airlines on their websites directly .
For train travel stuff your best first resource is Seat61.com , here 's the relevant part for <URL> . From the info there ( <URL> ) it seems you can not book on-line directly , but you can go through a travel agent to have them book the tickets in advance . The trains do sell out , but you do n't need to book months in advance ( unless you want to ) . Passengers are allocated seats and although the train will likely be full it 'll not be packed , the amount of people / space will depend which class you 're travelling in ( there 's pictures and more info on the link ) . I ca n't define the best way to buy the tickets , the cheapest would be to get them at Beijing station a week or so in advance . Anything else will involve paying a cut to an agent . However it sounds like you 're not there for that long so I 'd use one of the agency websites on the page I linked above . One other option is to contact your hotel / hostel and ask if they can arrange tickets for you and have them ready for when you arrive . As the site says large stations will have English speaking staff , plus you can get your hotel to write down the details in Chinese for you . In my experience if a place does n't have English speaking stuff , but has a lot of tourists , there are normal people hanging around willing to help you translate for a small tip ( although be careful about being scammed , etc ) .
Any ticket you buy having used that search will be valid for that journey . In some cases this may mean you actually have to buy two ( or more ) tickets , because the " via " station would not normally be on a valid route . Note that if you purchase advance tickets , you are not allowed to leave the train ( or at least the stations ) except at the end points specified in the ticket .
It appears that the minimum connecting time according to the airlines is 40 or 45 minutes between Terminal A &amp; C , so you should be just fine . If you 're flying United , they run a transfer shuttle between Terminals A &amp; C inside security , so you do n't have to go through security again .
Yes , you can . You should be able to buy a card at the train station or the Albert Heijn supermarket on the airport . The Schiphol has a train station which functions just like any other train station , there is no special ' airport train ' like you might find in other places . It 's not even an end station , it has trains leaving in two directions . As you can see on the <URL> ( pdf ) there are quite a few trains running through the Schiphol station .
Typically , 90 minutes for immigration at EWR is quite safe . To be on the safer side , ensure that you queue up soon after you exit the aircraft . Your seat position will also effect where in the queue you end up . Try , if possible , to get a seat towards the front of the aircraft ( numerically lower seat numbers ) . Also , at 1400 hrs not all counters will be open . This may delay immigration a bit . Of course , it also depends on whether someone ahead of you has an immigration issue and holds a counter busy . With regard to the second part , make sure you actually can check in till 1600 for a 1630 flight .
Personally I did n't plan much , just went with the flow , but that depends on how much freedom you have . Work out how much time you have . Bear in mind that a Russian tourist visa is 30 days , but you can get a Business visa for tourist purposes ( I had zero problems ) and that 's valid for 60 days , multiple entry . Work out your budget . Hostels are pretty cheap in most cities . However , Moscow and St Petersburg are expensive - European expensive . Starbucks in Moscow ( I use it for my price gauge ) was frightening ! Work out what cities you want to stop off in . You do NOT want to just train from end to end . Remember , Russia is BIG . Russia is LONG . Russian trains are SLOW . There are frequent stops - although they are almost to the minute reliable , in my experience . As an indication , Moscow to Novosibirsk takes 52 hours . Work out what class you want to travel in . Platzkart is fun to do for some segments - you get beds in a 54-bed carriage . It 's social , you meet lots of people . Kupe class is 4-beds in a cabin . More secure and quiet , but if you get crappy roommates , it can suck . Work out if you want top or bottom bunk - the price varies . Also some trains ( Between St Petersburg and Moscow , for example ) can also offer merely seating class - but you always seem to get 2 seats or more to yourself , so can sleep quite comfortably , although it 's a lot less secure , and you quite often get drunken soldiers or louts keeping you awake . Work out what sites are near each city , and therefore how long you want to spend there . As a starting point , Moscow does n't near nearly as much time as St Petersburg . Also be aware that if you stop in Irkutsk , you 'll want to go to Lake Baikal , which to do properly you 'll want three days , minimum . Work out a rough guide for length , activities , price and see if this fits into your visa . Look at flights in and out of start and end points ( I assume you 're not going both ways on the train ) . Look at visas for Mongolia and China - but you can pick these up in Irkutsk , Russia quite easily ( Mongolian visa takes 2 days , or less if you 're prepared to pay ) . Do you want to go into the desert in Mongolia ? It 's a minimum 4-5 day tour from Ulaanbaatar . Assuming you finish in Beijing , allow time to travel there as well . Put a couple of buffer / rest days in here and there . Although you will get a lot of resting time on the trains . Learn the ten most useful phrases . Hello , thank you , train station , bus station " where is x " , your country in Russian , and " what time is x " is an excellent start . Decide if you 're going to buy all your tickets outside the country . Personally I would n't , it gives you more flexibility and I 've never had a problem getting a train ticket even the day before in Russia - well , aside from in Irkutsk after 7pm . Get invitation , get visa , buy flights . Go to Russia , and enjoy it !
As far my knowledge , the arrival and departure gates for domestic flights in Mumbai Airport are nearby . However you will have to go through security checks again at departure gate . So , to answer your questions : If both the flights are operated by same airlines ( in your case GoAir ) and you have a single ticket for your journey , you do n't have to worry about your checked-in luggage . You can get direction and information about departure gate from the flight attendants of your first flight . There will also be other security personnel to help you out . From my personal experience , they will only show you the direction and will not come and guide you . So , you will have to figure out rest on your own . Ideally you should be able to make it to your next flight on a 30 minute window if you plan smartly . Inform the flight attendants of your first flight about your connection flight and ask them if you can get off first . Take your seat near the exit . Get boarding pass for both the flights before beginning of the journey and find you which get number you need to go .
<URL> says that tickets can be booked on the online website of CFR , the Romanian Railway company . <URL> . Quoting from The Man : How to book trains within Romania [ ... ] You can book Romanian domestic train tickets online at www.cfrcalatori.ro , the Romanian Railways ( CFR ) website , including domestic sleeper trains . It will only book the compulsory-reservation mainline trains , not local services , but it 's easy enough to use and should have no problem with non-Romanian credit cards .
No . <URL> with an overview of the situation in each country . <URL> ( though it does look somewhat incomplete , at least for South America ) . Overall , each country has , or does n't have , its own network . There is currently no railway crossing any border anywhere between Mexico and Columbia , at least . According to <URL> , in South America , the only international connections are between Bolivia , Argentina and Brazil ( neither of the two links between Bolivia and the Chilean coast , to <URL> or <URL> , carry passengers , and the Arica line is currently closed ) . If you want to go from Mexico to Panama , railways wo n't help you much . Guatemala has none . <URL> has only a few commuter trains that would save you at most a few miles . <URL> has a few goods trains and commuter trains but there too I do n't think any are helpful to cross the country . Nicaragua is another trainless gap . <URL> currently only has a commuter line around San José . In <URL> the only railway is the one that runs parallel to the Canal . From Colombia to the South , you 'll need to go via Peru or Venezuela . In <URL> , the existing tracks would n't help you much , and anyway the only passenger train is in the Bogotá region . <URL> has a few trains but there are still large gaps if you want to reach Brazil , and then the only trains in the north of Brazil are on the coast . In <URL> , finally , there are trains that will take you part of the way between Ecuador and Bolivia , but with several large gaps . You can go from [ Cusco to Puno ] ( <URL> to Puno ) on the shore of Lake Titicaca , then a ferry to Guaqui in Bolivia ( if it 's currently running -- I ca n't find reliable information ) and there a train to La Paz . <URL> has several passenger networks , but here too there are gaps between these networks , and there are no tracks connecting the eastern and western network . The western network runs to <URL> on the Argentinean border . The <URL> no longer runs to La Quiaca , so you 'll need a combination of buses and optionally a tourist line , the <URL> , in Salta , to reach the main network at Tucuman .
Note : Posting as an answer on Mark 's suggestion Indeed , the deals of ViaRail unfortunately only cover a few itineraries , and usually only between major stops . There are few ways to get a good deal with ViaRail . The main one I know of , for cross-country tourism , is the <URL> . It allows you to travel for 21 days and/or 7 one-way trips ( whichever comes first ) . The pass costs from $ 630 to $ 1100 ( plus tax ) In your case , the trip from Winnipeg to Churchill ( round-trip ) is worth $ 300-370 when bought at full price . As I suppose you do n't live in Winnipeg , you can also use the train to get there . It is purely hypothetical , but then , a round-trip from Toronto is worth over $ 400 , and the pass becomes pretty competitive . Especially as you will probably visit Churchill in low season ( I heard best time is around end of October ) , so the pass price is comparable to the round-trip price from Toronto , so you can add some free train rides to your agenda . To add a bit about the pass conditions : you are allowed 1 stopover for each of the 7 one-way trips . With the pass , you can only have access to seats with supersaver/discounted fares , so book ahead ( but you can cancel any trip before train departure ) .
Yes , the observation deck of Haneda 's international terminal is the public landside area and open to all . Incidentally , Narita stopped doing checks on entry some time ago , but even when they were doing them , they wanted only ID , not tickets . Plenty of people visit airports to meet or see off passengers .
<URL> is easily reachable by foot from the train station - just follow Karl Johans gate ( " gate " is Norwegian for " street " , not an actual gate ) . <URL> is a nice place to watch the harbour . <URL> is also nearby if you 're interested . <URL> from 1290 and the <URL> should fit the " ancient architecture " ticket <URL> nicely .
According to Wikipedia , <URL> Attempting to conceal it by disassembling will not change the legal status , but will leave you open for further legal issues . The Canadian regulations are similar , but obviously not that relevant if you ca n't first take is to Sweden .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
end question
start question
How to book a bassinet for an infant on a flight ?
It varies for different airlines , so it 's best to telephone your individual airline or check their website . It seems to be standard for international flights but not so for domestic flights . These depend on the model of plane and some airlines also have a weight limit for allowing a child to use the bassinets . Check with your airline to determine if your child is below the weight limit specified for use of your airline 's bassinets . On long haul flights most airlines will provide Bassinets providing for by infants under the age of 2 years with the condition that the infant does not way more than 10kg and under 6 months of age Article Source : <URL> These are fitted in front of the parents seat , so it 's best you get the first row of seats in each block of the airline as these have more legroom . How do you book it ? Once you 've checked the website , call them to request for one . Ideally ee-confirm 48 hours before your flight that your bassinet is available . Sometimes you might have to wait till check-in to get it confirmed on certain airlines . Is it tied to your seat assignment ? Yes - I assume you will get a seat with enough legroom to install the bassinet . And if the seat with the bassinet is taken by someone without an infant , will they change your seat assignment ? They should do so - provided you inform them in advance Additional Info From a few websites , you can see the policy for some airlines . <URL> offers bassinets for ticketed infants weighing 22 lbs ( 10 kg ) or less on international flights operated with 777 , 767 and 757-200 aircraft . Bassinets attach to the wall in front of the specific seats . Qantas - If you require a bassinet onboard , you must notify Qantas at the time of reservation . Bassinets may be requested for infants up to 18 months of age , but the recommended age limit for bassinet use on international flights is eight months United - A limited number of bassinets can be reserved for use , free of charge , on international aircraft ( Boeing 747 , 767 and 777 ) . These bassinets are large enough to hold a child up to approximately six months old . Air NZ only allows pre-booking for infants of 8 months and less , otherwise you must wait until check-in to see if a bassinet is available
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
I took the novel step of calling Air New Zealand , and they said the flight was booked directly through them even though he used ( which was why I was reluctant to call them in the first place ) the flight is connecting and he will be issued tickets and have his bag checked through from his point of departure .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
Here 's a complete list of instructions attached to the " appointment confirmation " document : Instructions Welcome We look forward to seeing you at the U.S. Embassy/Consulate . For your safety and convenience , we ask that you arrive at the time of your appointment , and not earlier . We do n't want you to have to wait on the street , particularly during periods of harsh weather . As a reminder , you will need to bring the following required documents : A printed copy of your appointment letter Your DS-160 confirmation page , One recent photograph , Your current passport and all old passports , Additional documents depending on the visa category Security Screening As you prepare for your visit to the U.S. Embassy/Consulate , there are a few things you can do to help speed your entry . The safety and comfort of our guests and employees is something we take very seriously , so all visa applicants and American Citizen Services ( ACS ) customers must go through security screening before entering the Consular Section . To help avoid unnecessary delays for yourself and others , there are a few things which you should not bring : Large shoulder bags/purses -- bigger than the size of an A-4 format page and zip folders . Applicants may bring one plastic bag or folder with application related documents or a small purse or handbag . Immigrant visa applicants may bring their visa application materials and the sealed envelope with the results of their medical examination . Luggage , such as suitcases , backpacks , briefcases , and other travel bags . These items can not be brought to the Embassy/Consulate and can not be left outside the Embassy/Consulate on the sidewalk or with individuals waiting outside . You may wish to leave your luggage in your hotel room or a train station locker . Battery-operated or electronic devices such as cameras , laptops , recording devices or portable music players . Food and drink . Sealed envelopes or packages , except for sealed envelopes containing medical exam results . Cigarettes , cigars , match boxes , lighters . Sharp objects such as scissors , pen knives or nail files . Weapons or explosive materials of any kind . Cellular telephones must be left with Embassy/Consulate security personnel . This list is not exhaustive . Other items may be prohibited at the discretion of security staff . There is no facility at the Embassy/Consulate to store prohibited items ( aside from cellular telephones ) . You will need to make arrangements to store these items elsewhere before entering . Only American Citizens seeking ACS services or visa applicants and ACS customers with a confirmed appointment will be admitted to the Consular Section . Unfortunately , there is no parking available at the Embassy/Consulate and cars can not stop or stand on the street in front of the building . Visa applicants and ACS customers arriving by car should park in one of the paid public parking spots near the Embassy/Consulate or arrange to be dropped off down the street . Once again , to provide you with better and faster service , we ask that you arrive at the time of your interview and not before . Judging by the document itself , you can easily tell that the security procedures are going to be annoying . Below I 'll describe how the procedure looked like in my case - an interview in Warsaw . Please excuse the verbosity and feel invited to write a " TL ; DR " section : Since I did n't know anything what would happen if I happened to try to bring in one of the forbidden items , I decided to wear informal clothes and carry only absolutely necessary items before going through the security check . . When I reached the U.S. Consular Office , I could see about a dozen people waiting outside the office . I was 15 minutes earlier , but one woman from the crowd told me that she 's just waiting to be let in because she had to turn off her mobile phone and that I 'll probably be allowed earlier . While waiting , I could see a big sign next to the door . It said that it is strictly forbidden to bring any mobile phones , weapons and some other objects that I ca n't remember anymore . I felt worried , because the instructions said that I would be allowed to leave it at the security check . On the other hand , another sign on the door said that it 's allowed to deposit turned off mobile phones . A rather impolite man let in people one-by-one and when it was finally my turn , made sure that the phone is switched off by pressing a key , then took it and gave me a token . Then I went through the metal detector , the procedure reminded the one in the airports . A woman before me had some metal detected in her small bag and had it manually inspected , so if you plan to bring one , try to bring as few private things as possible . On the other hand , it was definitely bigger than an A4 sheet , so it looks like they are n't extremely strict when enforcing the instructions . I was let in and after walking through a rat
Short answer , no -- not really . You could always take a change of clothes ( or at least a different top ) in your carry on and attempt to freshen up in the toilets . Take some wet wipes too . You could also try and find a shower in the city before heading to the airport . Depending what airport you 're in there may be a way to pay for lounge / shower access -- if there 's a transit hotel they let you pay for a room for an hour . However , I really would n't worry about it that much . If you can change at least some of your clothes it 'll make a big difference but your sense of smell is significantly dulled in flight so once you 're airborne I doubt people will notice . And planes are generally pretty smelly anyway ( although you never really notice until you land and you leave ) . If you 're really worried about it try to get a seat with noone beside you ( reserve a seat at the back of the plane , do n't check-in too early , check the seat plan when you check in and change seats if it looks like there 's a better chance of getting an empty seat beside you ) . Also , do n't use the aftershave . Or any other way to mask the scent . Putting on deorderant in the morning before everything is fine . But I 'd much rather sit next to someone who 's organically a bit wiffy than someone who 's tried to douse that in aftershave . The first I 'll get used to after a while , the second is likely to give me a headache and make the flight much less enjoyable . But thanks for worrying about it -- most people do n't ( which is why you probably should n't too much either ) .
Car rental is one of the most obscurely priced services with varying conditions . It is very hard to predict and my advice regarding car rental bookings is " compare " . Compare multiple car rental agencies , compare with brokers , compare with the deal you can get booking with an airline or online travel agent ( OTA ) . The reason you are suggested this car rental is not so much that they are offering you a particularly good deal but just that the OTA - or Emirates , through their ecommerce department - is making a margin on every flight/hotel room/car rental booking ( or in the case of flights on all the small extra called ancillaries , like seat reservation , upgrade , shuttle ... This margin is usually the same for all bookings on one provider ( to be confirmed ) and is determined by the GDS ( which is the bookings wholesalers ) . Specifically regarding car rentals , there are some conditions that vary depending who sells you the package , like insurances , included kilometers , driver 's age ... There are a lot of fees for options like additional driver , fuel refills , one-way rentals . So overall the price depends more on these - and they also often matter to you - so that every booking price is different ( <URL> ) . I just tried to book a car rental through the airline I booked a flight with recently ( they apparently have a contract with <URL> ) and compared with a booking from the website of the same rental agency and in 2 cases I got a lower rate using the airline link . I tried with another booking with another carrier and this time it was through an OTA . In that case the booking through the rental agency was priced the same but maybe the insurances were not exactly the same ( I could not see the conditions ) . In the end what matters is that the price of a car rental with a specific combination of options might be different based on who sells it to you ( the rental agency , an online travel agency or a broker ) . In my experience , the broker was usually cheaper , but I would not consider it a rule . And the conditions - especially the liability insurance - are not always clear . I make a point always reading the conditions ( at least insurances and distance limits ) because there might be tricks . So if the price matters to you , get a quote with Emirates , go to the rental company website and get another quote , and go to an online travel agent like Expedia/Hotwire / ... and get a third quote . Compare the prices and the conditions and pick your favourite .
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
Here how it goes : After you pass the passport control desk , you will pass the customs desk . The guys at the customs desk will scan the luggage , if they found books or CDs they might ask you to show them . If they do not like them from the cover , they will take the books and/or CDs and give you a slip . The books will be sent to a department where they will check the books/CDs and you can visit them few days later to collect them if allowed , or to be informed that they are confiscated if they were n't allowed . No more or less , no charges or any other things will be taken against you . Sometimes you will have to pay a fine , usually the fine is 500 SAR ( $ 134 USD ) per prohibited item , but I guess this only applies to CDs/DVDs and rarely happens . If you are not Saudi most likely they will pass on the fine because you do not know the local rules . Regarding anti-religious books , they are not allowed . But again , only if they notice and are in the mood to apply the rules . Regarding Da Vinci code , I bought a copy of this book in Saudi Arabia so I guess it is allowed . In 2000 or 2001 , I brought 3 " inappropriate " CDs , the customs checked them and I had to pay 1500 SAR and they were confiscated . I guess I paid because I was stupid and I argued and shouted . Otherwise they would have just taken them and let me go without paying . Remember , the above is applied to books and CDs/DVDs , alcohol is not allowed and will be confiscated right away . Drugs smuggling is a serious problem and is punishable by the local laws . Last thing , inside Saudi Arabia , no one will care about the book in your hands :)
Considering champagne is a non-flammable liquid , the TSA apparently <URL> as checked luggage . And this does n't really surprise me . A bottle of Pepsi , deodorant spray and even compressed gas canisters are all ok to check in .
This seems to be in violation of their stated policy . See <URL> which for " international to USA " states " Please note that your bags will be automatically transferred to your connecting flight . "
The <URL> has a <URL> . This document mentions toy guns as being forbidden in carry-on luggage ( emhpasis mine ) : PASSENGERS AND CABIN BAGGAGE Without prejudice to applicable safety rules , passengers are not permitted to carry the following articles into security restricted areas or on board an aircraft , on either their person or in cabin baggage : guns , firearms and other devices that discharge projectiles -- devices capable , or appearing capable , of being used to cause serious injury by discharging a projectile , including : firearms of all types , such as pistols , revolvers , rifles , shotguns toy guns , replicas and imitation firearms capable of being mistaken for real weapons It would therefore be safe to assume that since both nerf and water gun can be classified as toy guns , neither will be permitted as cabin luggage on board a British Airways flight . To be extra sure <URL> and ask them directly .
You can use child carriers like the Ergo Baby carriers for transporting your infant on and off the plane , but they not appropriate to use while seated / seat belted . Once you are on the plane , the safest position for your infant is in a car seat ( but that means buying a seat for the infant , unless you are lucky and have a half empty flight ) or being held in your lap . You never want to buckle your seat belt around yourself and the infant . Some airlines have a second little seat belt that attaches outside your seat belt for the infant , but these are not real safe and not allowed in some countries .
The amount of radiation you 're exposed to on an airplane flight depends on a variety of factors , including the altitude , latitude , and duration of the flight . As an example , a flight from New York to Tokyo is probably about 150 μSV . For comparison , natural background radiation is about 2,000-7 ,000 μSv per year , a chest x-ray is about 50 μSv , and a medical CT scan is about 10,000 μSv . Some of the other answers have referred to the BED ( banana equivalent dose ) , but unfortunately the BED is scientifically wrong , because the body maintains a constant amount of potassium , so ingesting more does n't increase your exposure . The question asked about the comparison with the radiation exposure from airport scanners . There are two types of full-body scanners , backscatter x-ray and millimeter wave . In the US , the TSA is eliminating all backscatter x-ray scanners by June 2013 , so the only type remaining will be millimeter wave scanners . Millimeter wave scanners do not use ionizing radiation , so the radiation exposure is zero . I assume backscatter x-ray machines will continue to be used in airports in at least some other countries ; the radiation exposure is about 0.05-0 .1 μSv per scan , which is about a thousand times less than exposure during the flight . There is strong evidence that small doses of radiation do not cause even a small negative health effect in proportion to the dose ( which would be the LNT , linear no-threshold hypothesis ) . In fact , there is quite a bit of evidence that small radiation doses provide a health benefit , an effect called radiation hormesis . This may be because the radiation activates cellular repair mechanisms . However , the dose received from an airplane flight is much too small to provide any positive or negative effect worth considering on an individual basis .
<URL> does that . When you do the search , one of the options is to subscribe for updates for the route and dates you 've selected , and they 'll email you when the prices change .
<URL> . If the delay was not caused by " extraordinary circumstances " , you may be entitled to some monetary compensation .
There is a EUR 430 allowance but it 's <URL> . So if you want to sell them , you 're not OK , no matter their value . Incidentally , even a single brand new Apple Mac Book for your own use would not be OK either because it would be over the limit ( bringing back your own used laptop is a different question ) . It was a long time ago ( before the EU rules detailed in the link above ) but someone from my family once got in trouble for a handful of baby napkins or something like that . The issue is not merely the value but the fact that having several identical items , especially with receipts or intact packaging is taken as a sign that the goods are new and you might want to sell them instead of carrying them for your personal use . Under this logic , the answer to the title question would therefore appear to be " one " even if there is no explicit limit . A suitcase full of identical laptops is certainly likely to attract attention .
Basically , it 's because the the fare rules for these flights explicitly disallow what you 're trying to do . Firstly , AT do n't have a specific fare published from SID to NSI . This is n't surprising , and does n't in itself normally stop you from booking a ticket between them as you can ( normally ) just book it as two separate fares for the two flights - all on the same ticket . They do have fares published between SID and CMN , and between CMN and NSI - so you can book those two sectors individually . The problem is that all of the fares that they have published between those cities include the following rule : An " End-on-end " ticket is what it 's called when you use two separate fares to create a single journey . As you can see , they are allowing end-on-end combinations ONLY with domestic fares . This means that although you can book these two segments individually , you ca n't book them as a part of a single ticket - as the rules explicitly disallow it when the connecting flight is international like yours is . Combinability rules like this are common on cheaper fares , but in this case they have the exact same rule on even the full-fare ( Y ) tickets , so it 's not just bumping the price up like you 'd sometimes see , but actually stopping you from doing it at all . The reason you can book SID-DLA is because they have a specific fare between those two cities ( TA0W0CVA SID to DLA ) , so you 're booking it as a single fare rather than attempting to combine two fares . This could be an oversight on their part ( eg , someone forgot to create a fare for SID-NSI ) , or it could be deliberate - nobody but the airline fare management people will know , and you 're not going to be able to get in touch with them ...
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
That is extremely unlikely , since your id does n't show your title . I am expecting the ability to choose title has much more to do with how they address you in their e-mails . Also , TSA and equivalent organisations are n't paid to deal with academical fraud .
end question
start question
Restrictions for an EU citizen travelling through EU and working along the way ?
Freedom of movement for workers is one of the fundamental building stones of the EU and EU citizens do n't need to get prior authorization to work elsewhere in the EU . In practice , some countries used to ( and perhaps still do ) deliver some form of residence " permit " but unlike non-EU citizens , you are entitled to get one ( i.e. formally the permit just documents your pre-existing treaty rights , it 's not up to the authorities of the country to give you one or not ) . In my experience , it 's a formality you complete after starting to work , nothing much happens if you do n't get one . For example in Ireland I showed up a couple of times at the local police station where apparently only one garda knew the procedure and he was never there ; his colleagues just told me not to bother . In the Netherlands , I got one from the town administration where I was asked if I want one or not and told it 's mostly useful to simplify things like getting welfare benefits if I lost my job , etc. ( I do n't have personal experience with that but I believe you only qualify for welfare after living several years in the country , you ca n't go " benefits-shopping " and move to a country just for that ) . All of this is not yet true for citizens of Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia who still suffer from restrictions in certain countries for up to 7 years after their country joined the EU under transitory rules and do sometimes need to go through a lot of red tape to get a work permit . Of course , if you want to practice a regulated profession ( starting with lawyers and medical doctors but in some countries the list is really long ) , you need to get your qualifications recognized . Getting this type of things working as smoothly as possible is a big part of what the EU does but that 's unlikely to be an issue for short-term jobs . In many countries , you also need to get a tax/health insurance number that locals would have had since their birth and that employers will require . In some countries , I suspect working legally would also mean that you need to register as a resident with the local administration irrespective of the time you intend to stay ( in Germany , Switzerland , the Netherlands , residents have to officially register any change of address within days of moving -- it feels kind of creepy to me but it 's very easy to do in practice ) . So there can still be some red tape involved even if you do n't need a permit per se . Furthermore , a small number of defense , health or policy-related positions can be closed to citizens from other EU countries ( but certainly not all public sector jobs ) . Info on all this <URL> is very good . PS : Immigration is mostly off-topic on this site but then again we do have questions about working in Georgia or Argentina and , if you are a citizen from one of the member states , the EU rules obviously also allow you to work for a short time while traveling around Europe .
You can check if you need a visa <URL> . If it does n't ask a question , this is likely because it is not relevant to your requirement for a visa . In this case you almost certainly do require a visa . Your permenant residency and ( presumably ) good reasons to return to the Schengen country in question should help improve the liklehood of being granted a visa however .
Coming off the planes you come in the same halls as those going to the planes use . All of the airside that is ' non Schengen ' is connected , if by a long ( ish ) walkway . That means that the first to arrive can go to the gate used by the second to arrive and meet there . Although at most of the airside space is open , there might be some parts of the airport still locked off by security for the whole of the area . In that case you will be able to meet just outside of the security check for the area of the airport . Arriving plane gates are not announced so you will have to have your phones at the ready , call as soon as the gate is known . And sometimes passengers are bussed into the airport and might arrive at a door very close to passport control . If you ask your flight attendants , it is likely that they can include the information in the ' welcome to Amsterdam ' message , but otherwise you can see it on the outside of the airport buildings as well as on the signs within the halls as soon as you come into the buildings . Remember that you might have to go to different locations of the airport to collect your luggage . You do not need to use a particular part of passport control , and you are free to walk from one set of luggage carousels to the other set , and you are allowed to pass out of the secure zone at any of the exits . Both of your flights are from outside the Schengen area . If either of you had come from within the Schengen area , you would earliest be able to meet at the luggage carousels . This answer is from personal experience , having used Schiphol many times , but for within Schengen as out of Schengen flights . And I have met my friend in luggage reclaim on some airports myself . If you have people meeting you outside the secure zone , you might need to call them which exit you use ( based on which luggage you collect last ) or arrange to meet them at a set point in the airport . Edit : Based on the answer by @EcD , the area at the top of the stairs/lifts to passport control , on the side of the airport where the flight from China is using the gate , is the most likely point . But I am not sure as I never arrived from a ' non clean ' area . Luggage reclaim will certainly be possible , as those are for all flights in two huge halls .
[ Disclaimer : my predictions of the behaviour of insurance companies are based on my experience with North American ones . I have no reason to believe European ones are different . ] The word pothole has two meanings . The first is a small area of road a few inches lower than the rest , with sharp edges : This really should n't damage your car . If it does , any insurance company could probably say it was your fault for not driving in accordance with the road conditions . With proper driving , a steady diet of this kind of road might require a " front end alignment " more frequently than usual . It is not worth your time to try to get someone else to compensate you for that . If you break an axle or something else dramatic , it will probably be as a result of improper driving . The second meaning of pothole is a huge round hole that can swallow entire cars : This picture might be fake , but it depicts something that does happen Should you meet one of these , I suspect your insurance company will go after whoever designed , built , and maintained the road , seeking compensation for your damages . They 'll pay you and save you the trouble of pursuing the relevant local government yourself . That 's one of the purposes of insurance .
Freedom of movement for workers is one of the fundamental building stones of the EU and EU citizens do n't need to get prior authorization to work elsewhere in the EU . In practice , some countries used to ( and perhaps still do ) deliver some form of residence " permit " but unlike non-EU citizens , you are entitled to get one ( i.e. formally the permit just documents your pre-existing treaty rights , it 's not up to the authorities of the country to give you one or not ) . In my experience , it 's a formality you complete after starting to work , nothing much happens if you do n't get one . For example in Ireland I showed up a couple of times at the local police station where apparently only one garda knew the procedure and he was never there ; his colleagues just told me not to bother . In the Netherlands , I got one from the town administration where I was asked if I want one or not and told it 's mostly useful to simplify things like getting welfare benefits if I lost my job , etc. ( I do n't have personal experience with that but I believe you only qualify for welfare after living several years in the country , you ca n't go " benefits-shopping " and move to a country just for that ) . All of this is not yet true for citizens of Romania , Bulgaria and Croatia who still suffer from restrictions in certain countries for up to 7 years after their country joined the EU under transitory rules and do sometimes need to go through a lot of red tape to get a work permit . Of course , if you want to practice a regulated profession ( starting with lawyers and medical doctors but in some countries the list is really long ) , you need to get your qualifications recognized . Getting this type of things working as smoothly as possible is a big part of what the EU does but that 's unlikely to be an issue for short-term jobs . In many countries , you also need to get a tax/health insurance number that locals would have had since their birth and that employers will require . In some countries , I suspect working legally would also mean that you need to register as a resident with the local administration irrespective of the time you intend to stay ( in Germany , Switzerland , the Netherlands , residents have to officially register any change of address within days of moving -- it feels kind of creepy to me but it 's very easy to do in practice ) . So there can still be some red tape involved even if you do n't need a permit per se . Furthermore , a small number of defense , health or policy-related positions can be closed to citizens from other EU countries ( but certainly not all public sector jobs ) . Info on all this <URL> is very good . PS : Immigration is mostly off-topic on this site but then again we do have questions about working in Georgia or Argentina and , if you are a citizen from one of the member states , the EU rules obviously also allow you to work for a short time while traveling around Europe .
Yes you can . Starting from May 8 , 2013 every EU citizen can enter to Kosovo with ID card only , as mentioned on the <URL> ( at the bottom of the page )
It is an ICAO ( International Civil Aviation Organization ) standard , and as you know ICAO is the organization that standardize all international travel documents . From the document <URL> ( Machine readable Travel Documents ) which regulates all kinds of travel documents worldwide including passports : 11/II Sex of the holder , to be specified by use of the single initial commonly used in the language of the State where the document is issued and , if translation into English , French or Spanish is necessary , followed by a dash and the capital letter F for female , M for male , or X for unspecified . Anyway , there are some studies to remove the gender field from travel documents , such as the review from <URL> , things are still under study and it will take long time for this to be implemented , as such a change will require a lot of policies and procedure all over the world to be changed as well . To answer the why part , the gender field is/was important to identify the passport 's holder along with other features , some guys do look like girls with long hair and vice versa , it also reduces the risk of issuing the passport to the wrong identity or issuing multiple passports to one person , I guess the gender field is there to help in these cases . Read the review by the new Zealand passport office mentioned earlier for more details on this .
The <URL> " allows citizens of participating countries * to travel to the United States without a visa for stays of 90 days or less " . ( Ireland IS a participating country ) . Each traveller must have authorisation under <URL> . It costs US$ 14 , and the <URL> has all the information you would require . It takes up to 3 days to process , is valid for 2 years , and you need to have it approved before you leave for the US . It 's all done online . ( - and is fairly simple - I 've done it twice before , myself )
You do n't need to apply for a visa in advance to enter the UK with a Nicaraguan passport , as long as your period of stay is less than six months , <URL> . However , the length of the visa issued on arrival is at the discretion of the immigration official who processes you at border control .
Go for <URL> . Tried to buy ticket from ManUtd website and it redirects to <URL> This website allows you to view the seat location and if there is no available seats , it can notify you if there is more seat available . Note that you should arrive early in the stadium since usually they separate the tribune for the home and visiting team .
According to the European Aviation Safety Agency , a <URL> on child car seats for flights states the following : Regarding the use of a car seat as an acceptable child restraint device , this is regulated under the Regulation on Air Operations , through Annex IV ( Part CAT ) , specifically CAT.IDE.A .205 . The basis for the provision on child restraint devices is JAR-OPS 1 guidance material . To conclude , the proposed examples for acceptable child restraint devices include car seats , and item 2 of AMC1 CAT.IDE.A .205 lists the standards with which the CRD should comply . This includes the UN standard ECE R 44 , -03 or later series - this is commonly indicated on the car seat 's label . Information regarding this standard is available from a car seat manufacturer <URL> . Warning : from April 2008 , all child car seats that were manufactured before 1995 and approved to the ECE R44/01 and 44/02 standard are no longer legal and must not be used or sold . Only seats displaying the European Standard orange label , indicating approval to the Standard to ECE R44/03 , ECE R 44/04 or i-Size ( UN R129 ) may be legally used . It appears that the current standard version is R44/04 and should look like this : Source : maxi-cosi . com ( external link from above site ) Note that the FAQ also states that you must check with each individual airline : In the first instance , passengers wishing to use their car seat as a child restraint device ( CRD ) on board an aircraft should contact the airline or travel agency through which the ticket has been booked , in order to obtain information on which CRDs are acceptable and also to ensure that the car seat can be installed properly on the seat of the particular aircraft with which they will fly . For example , BA <URL> : If you have paid for a separate seat for your infant , or your child is under 3 years , you can bring your own forward facing car seat to secure into the aircraft seat . The car seat : can only be used for infants over six months old and children up to three years old must be designed to be secured by means of a normal aircraft single lap strap and face the same direction as the passenger seat on which it is positioned must have a 5-point restraining harness must not exceed the dimensions of the aircraft seat , and should fit into an area of 45cm x 45cm ( 17.5 ins x 17.5 ins ) must be strapped in place ensuring that the adult lap strap buckle does not lie directly over any part of the frame or under the structure of the car type seat after tightening
You can apply to replace a lost I-94 by filing <URL> . It 's very expensive though . It might be worth checking the <URL> in case they have it there , in which case you can print it out ; though it 's unlikely in your case . How are you leaving the U.S. ? According to <URL> , if you leave by air , you do n't have to turn in an I-94 . But if you leave by land , then you need to turn in an I-94 , so you might need to get a replacement . Or maybe if you do n't turn it in you can try to resolve it out with CBP the next time you try to enter , with proof that you entered Canada or Mexico .
No , you do n't need a transcript . Here is the list of the requirements from the <URL> : A Form I-20 , endorsed for travel and signed by your DSO You have been out of the United States for less than five months A current passport valid for at least six months after the date of your reentry or , if you are from one of the countries listed below , a passport that is current through the date of entry A valid , current visa or you traveled to contiguous country or adjacent island for less than thirty days Financial information showing proof of necessary funds to cover tuition and living expenses If you are from a visa exempt country , you do not need a visa to reenter the United States from the western hemisphere , but make sure that you present your I-20 to be admitted as an F-1 student and not a visitor .
The rules will apply to the operating carrier . ie , the one that is actually flying the flight - not the one that you booked with . EU Compensation applies to EU airlines regardless of where the flight is to/from , AND to non-EU airlines for flights DEPARTING an EU member state . eg , a Lufthansa flight between the US and Frankfurt would be covered in either direction , whilst a United flight would only be covered from Germany to the US and NOT in the other direction . So if you book a Lufthansa codeshare that was actually operated by United , then the regulations would apply only on the legs that depart from the EU , and not for any other legs as United is the operating carrier .
TL ; DR : Get them to contact <URL> , which they 'll have to do anyway to initiate the process in the US , and the staff will either walk them through the process or say that they ca n't process them in the US . Indian citizens need to get <URL> to enter Australia as a tourist , as they 're not included for <URL> or <URL> visas . <URL> . <URL> include : Notarised copy of all pages of current passport . Two recent passport-sized photographs . Details of tourism-related bookings , and itinerary giving details of activities within Australia . Copies of financial documents indicating a consistent savings history , any assets , and taxation documents for three years . Letter from employer indicating job status and confirmation of approval of leave , or ( if retired ) evidence of retirement . Other health and character documents if required . This first three are probably doable while on the road . The last three are probably going to be more difficult and may make it impossible for your parents to apply from overseas . If all of these documents are able to be compiled while overseas , to apply for a visa while in the USA <URL> which ( presumably ) walks them through the process including getting the required documents to the local consulate .
If you are in Suwon , the very first thing you should do is to try suwon galbi . Suwon is one of the best places in South Korea to try galbi . Also , do n't forget to visit Hwasong , a fortress which was built after imjin japanse invasion . There is also a famous amusement park in Korea near suwon called , ' everland ' . Plan on spending about 2-3 days to look around and try things I suggested above and you should be good .
What ways are there of establishing and maintaining a connection ? <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
European Transport Safety Council Directives Pre May 2015 Up until recently , individual European countries would set-up bilateral agreements regarding traffic regulation enforcement . This is the case for example for UK and Ireland ; Switzerland and Italy ; to name a few . Talks of unifying or regulating cross-border traffic infringements date way back . In 2011 an EU directive ( n. 2011/82/EU ) was approved and came into force in 2013 , allowing drivers to be prosecuted cross-border . T <URL> , and thus the EU began studying a new directive . The Current State of Affairs ( post May 2015 ) According to <URL> , the new European cross-border enforcement regulations ( EU directive 2015/413 ) were approved in March 2015 , and are to be transposed into national rules by all member countries ( with the exception of UK , Ireland and Denmark ) by the 6th of May 2015 . This directive will allow countries to follow-up traffic infringements from foreign drivers , by accessing national vehicle registration details without the need for bilateral agreements . <URL> describes eight major driving offences which can now be prosecuted cross-border : Speeding ; Not using a seatbelt ; Not stopping at a red traffic light or other mandatory stop signal ; Drink driving ; Driving under the influence of drugs ; Not wearing a safety helmet ( for motorcyclists ) ; Using a forbidden lane ( such as the forbidden use of an emergency lane , a lane reserved for public transport , or a lane closed down for road works ) ; Illegally using a mobile phone , or any other communications device , while driving . The functioning of the system is also described in the linked FAQ page . In short it leverages <URL> , and a new cooperation system by which countries elect dedicated contact points responsible for handling such cross-border enforcement requests by other countries . It follows that a mechanism for prosecuting road traffic infringements cross-border within the EU exists , and is gradually being enforced . This is not to say that all fines for offences committed abroad will be sent to your home , since the directive is left vague enough to allow countries some wiggle room . In particular , individual countries can choose whether or not to begin the cross-border prosecution procedure on a case-by-case basis - the mechanism is not launched automatically by all countries . How About Point Systems ? The afore-mentioned directive does not mention point systems . To my knowledge <URL> , in terms of the number of points on a clean licence , the addition or subtraction of points , and the points per infringement . It would therefore seem that at the time of writing the lack of a common European driving licence point system determines a lack of control and prosecution mechanisms for point deduction/addition following traffic infringements . And Country-Specific Driving Bans ? Being enforced in the country where the offence was committed ( if applicable ) it is safe to assume that driving bans will not depend on cross-border regulations . As <URL> if committing a driving offence will cause you to be banned from driving in a country , then the ban will be effective as soon as the offence is processed by that country . You might or might not receive notification of this ( this is not specified in the afore-mentioned EU directive ) but you should nevertheless make sure you are aware of any bans you might have . You wo n't like it should your driving licence come up as banned in that country during a random police check .
In general the way it works is that you pay duty when you import something permanently to a country . If you are visiting a country , you generally do not pay import duty on something you are bringing in temporarily . That 's why you do n't have to pay duty on things you bring with you when you visit a country as a tourist . The issue is that they have to believe that , if you are visiting for a short time , you will be taking these things out again when you leave . If you arrive with one laptop and one phone , that both look used , they do n't usually worry . If you arrive with three laptops still in their boxes they will expect you to prove that they are not going to be imported . Some countries might make you register the things you bring in , and/or pay a deposit which is returnable when you take the things out again . The only way to find out for sure is to check the rules of each country you are visiting
I actually remember on Netflix watching an episode of a TV show where these adventists actually spent 48 hours in Chernobyl . Turns out the town is so isolated that the people and camera crew actually had to transfer from a passenger train in the Ukrane and finish the rest of the commute in a freight train car for 48 hours from the main transit hub . From there , they actually interviewed some people who actually were living fairly normally despite the geiger meter being about 8x the safe radiation level , and they were saying how the reason they still lived there was because of family tradition . Surprisingly the people never wore hazmat suits but still survived , although they were taking a ton of iodine and did get sick after awhile , but in the show they did go near the powerplant ( still covered with cement blocks ) and the radiation was ~ 32x higher than the safe limit -- even at 2-3 miles from the plant . I wish I had the name of the show in my head , but I 'm pretty sure the channel was Sy-Fi or something like that -- and overall it was a pretty interesting episode , especially how they showed the residents still living there actually have genetic changes to adapt to the higher radiation ( although the area near the plant is literally a dead zone )
end question
start question
If I am from Canada and my girlfriend is from Sweden , what visas do we need ( each ) for traveling to South East Asia ?
Will you need visas ? Yes Based on hippietrail 's great comment , here 's the breakdown : Canadian : Fiji : No visa Indonesia : Visa on Arrival ( VOA ) Thailand : No visa ( expect to get entry stamps in your passports ) Cambodia : VOA Laos : VOA Vietnam : Visa required before entry ( or pre-approval , read below ) Swede ( same requirements as Canada for these countries ) : Fiji : No visa Indonesia : visa on Arrival ( VOA ) Thailand : No visa ( expect to get entry stamps in your passports ) Cambodia : VOA Laos : VOA Vietnam : Visa required before entry ( or pre-approval , read below ) Notes Many countries require at least six months of validity left on your passports when you enter . This means that when you enter the last country of your itinerary you need at least six months of validity . It looks like you 're getting close to 30 days in Thailand . The limit for you in Thailand is 30 days . Do not overstay your visa in any country . It is not worth the risk of complications and it 's usually easy to get your stay legally extended . Prevention in better than the cure . Indonesia VOA will require money ( not a bribe , a legitimate charge ) . They accept Indonesian Rupiah , US dollars and credit card ( I would n't count on the credit card , the system may be down ) . There is an ATM right next to the area where you pay for your visas . However , I would make sure I have the funds in US dollars before I arrive in Indonesia . Visas for Vietnam There are two ways to go about this for your particular situation . Pay online to get you visa preapproved . You 'll get a letter e-mailed to you with your name , passport number , and date of entry and departure on it . When you pass through immigration present the letter and your passport to the agent and you will get a visa put in your passport by them ( you may need to submit a passport photo too ) . It feels a little sketchy doing it online but it works . Do your due diligence to make sure you are n't getting scammed , it looks like there are a lot of websites you can go through . The price varies depending on how quickly you want the approval done . Request your visa through your nearest Vietnamese embassy or consulate . This will require , among other things , mailing your passport to the Embassy or Consulate ( with a self addressed andstamped return envelope ) and they will put the visa in .
Update , 2/27/15 : In approximately 7 days from the writing of this edit , it is possible ( Likely , in the opinion of this author ) , that <URL> . While similar to the shutdown that occurred in 2013 , this current budgetary impasse does not apply to most government agencies . Parks , museums , etc. , should continue to operate as usual . The only government workers affected by this shutdown are DHS staff , such as Customs and Border Protection , TSA , and Immigration and Nationalization employees . Most of these employees are considered ' essential ' , and will thus be required to report to work , even in the event of a shutdown , but they will be working without pay . Expect them to be grumpy , and cut them a little slack . They may also be shorthanded , or short on supplies , as their funding has been abruptly severed . Document processing , and other services that go through an office will probably severely delayed , if not completely halted for the duration . Again , this should not affect any national parks , museums , or tourism sites , and the FAA/Air Traffic Control are similarly unaffected . Expect delays when dealing with security , customs , and border crossings however . You should n't notice much impact on the actual getting around part of travel . Public transport , as well as things like highway maintenance and management are all done at the state level , and are unaffected by short term federal government shutdowns . Similarly , the TSA , FAA , and Border Patrol are all continuing to operate , with their employees being paid on the resumption of government activity . AMTRAK is a privately owned enterprise ; while they receive federal subsidies , they should be able to continue operating at full capacity for the foreseeable future . Where you will notice a lack of activity is in trying to use other government services . As a traveller , the primary impact you 'll see here is , of course the National Parks Service . This means parks and various monuments and historic sites are closed . This includes the Smithsonian museums in Washington , DC . Do keep in mind however , that much of the nations parkland , as well as many historic sites and monuments and museums are not federally maintained or operated , and at those facilities , it should be business as usual . <URL> , it wo n't be completely shut down . For the most part , as a visitor , you should n't notice much impact from the shutdown . If it drags out for more than a few weeks , the lack of available funds could cause larger issues , but for now , as a foreigner , you can safely not worry about it . ( N.B. Because of its peculiar governmental status , visitors to Washington D.C. specifically might experience a larger impact than visitors to other cities . In particular , most sites of tourist interest in DC are federally operated and will be closed . YMMV . ) For further details , <URL>
You could still use your iPhone , buy apps that work offline for maps , city guides , etc. , try to find Wifi for the rest including Skype calls back home and limit expensive roaming calls to a minimum . It 's obviously less comfortable than having unlimited Internet everywhere but it 's easy to set up ( compared to other solutions like unlocking/buying pay-as-you go SIM card or buying some secondary phone ) and still lets you use some of the iPhone 's functionality .
It is completely okay . I do similar things all the time , although the two passports I hold are both visa-free in most of the places I visit . The Greek official will not care whether you have a stamp from Turkey in your passport . She or he will be concerned only with stamps from Greece and other countries in the Schengen area , to determine whether you have ever overstayed your visa . Assuming you have not , there will be no problem . Of course , if the Greek official does ask about your travel to Turkey , or whether you have Iranian nationality , you should tell them that you are an Iranian national , and if it seems they want documentation of that , show your passport . In general , you should volunteer as little information as you need to , but always give any information that they ask for . I would add that I once entered Turkey with some Bosnian/Canadian dual nationals who did not have their Bosnian passports . Turkey is ( or was then ) one of the few places that Bosnians can go without a visa . I was traveling on a US passport , and my visa fee was something like USD 15 or 20 . The Canadians , entering on their Canadian passport , had to pay a fee of $ 60 , if I recall correctly . I think the disparate fee amounts are based on the fees that Turks have to pay for visits to the country in question . My friends regretted that they had not brought their Bosnian passports ; you 'll save a decent amount by remembering your Iranian one .
I believe the answer is immigration , immigration and immigration ( real or perceived ) . In Europe at least , visa requirements and enforcement measures are motivated mostly by the risk that the people in question would try to enter the country and stay there illegally ( and of course all the political posturing around that risk ) . It could be argued that immigration is generally a net gain for a country ( cf. your point about talented people ) or that the risk of illegal immigration is overblown or entirely the result of an overly restrictive policy regarding legal immigration but none of this changes the politics . Just to provide some direct evidence of all this , the following is from the preamble of the Schengen visa code : In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty , the creation of an area in which persons may move freely should be accompanied by measures with respect to external border controls , asylum and immigration . [ ... ] As regards visa policy , the establishment of a ' common corpus ' of legislation , particularly via the consolidation and development of the acquis ( the relevant provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 and the Common Consular Instructions , is one of the fundamental components of ' further development of the common visa policy as part of a multi-layer system aimed at facilitating legitimate travel and tackling illegal immigration through further harmonisation of national legislation and handling practices at local consular missions ' , as defined in the Hague Programme : strengthening freedom , security and justice in the European Union . [ ... ] It is necessary to set out rules on the transit through international areas of airports in order to combat illegal immigration . Thus nationals from a common list of third countries should be required to hold airport transit visas . Nevertheless , in urgent cases of mass influx of illegal immigrants , Member States should be allowed to impose such a requirement on nationals of third countries other than those listed in the common list . Member States ' individual decisions should be reviewed on an annual basis . This is only one example but it 's explicitly all about immigration . I think the other considerations ( reciprocity , passports ) only factor in tangentially . Note that until now the EU has not really been insisting so strongly on reciprocity , so that US citizens still enjoy visa-free visits to the whole Schengen area despite the fact that after years of discussion there are still several EU countries whose citizens are not eligible for the Visa Waiver Program . Similarly , some or all EU citizens enjoy visa-free ( or visa-on-arrival ) access to countries such as Turkey , Morocco , Tunisia and most of South America so reciprocity is clearly overemphasized as an explanation .
You should bring your passport , you do n't need anything in addition to this . Northern Ireland is part of the UK , so it 's a domestic trip with no " immigration " or similar . However , almost all airlines require passengers to have photo ID ( for their own commercial reasons - basically to ensure that person flying is the same as the person named on the ticket ) and a passport is the best form of photo ID for a non-European citizen to use .
I believe if I book online and travelling to another Schengen country , I would not need to show ID and only the boarding ticket ? That depends on the airline 's policy ( and to some degree , the gate agent 's knowledge of that policy ) . The EU no longer requires that airlines check for their passengers ' identification so long as they do not check in luggage . Many airlines ( SAS , Norwegian ) do not care and do not check in line with regulation . Ryanair , however , systematically checks . I regularly fly between Sweden where I live , the Netherlands , Germany , Spain , and Italy and I never have to show my ID . But if the airline does ask ... However , as a whole , being in a different country without an ID is not recommended and as Alexander points out , some countries such as Spain and France do require you carry some form of identification at all times e.g. national id card or driver 's license
Here is a Canadian government website that will <URL> , whether briefly in transit or for a more extended visit . You can enter your country of citizenship and all other information about your trip , and it will tell you if you need a visa , and what visa you need . Some general rules : If you do n't need a visa to visit Canada , you do n't need a visa to transit Canada . This includes citizens of the US , UK , EU and many others . You can not stay more than 48 hours with a transit visa The Transit Without Visa program ( TWOV ) and the China Transit Program ( CTP ) allow certain foreign nationals to transit through Canada on their way to and from the United States without a Canadian transit visa , if they meet certain requirements . You can apply for a transit visa by filling out the application for a Temporary Resident Visa and selecting transit visa from the list of options on the form . You may not need a transit visa if you are travelling to or from the United States . If you are in doubt about your eligibility you can contact your nearest Canadian embassy by email or otherwise .
Yes , U.S. Customs and Border Protection can and does search electronic devices entering the country . No , it does not matter if the device belongs to a US citizen or not . There have been <URL> about this practice , but so far the courts have decided it does not constitute unreasonable search and seizure since the searches occur before the traveler has entered the country , they are happening " outside " of the USA and probable cause does not apply . U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents encountered more than 221 million travelers at U.S. ports of entry and performed about 1,000 laptop searches . Of this number , 46 were considered " in-depth , " meaning the agents examined individual files . Source : <URL> It 's not clear if you would be forced to give a password during a laptop search , but it seems likely that not doing so could be used as grounds for seizure of the laptop or denying entry to a non US citizen . EDIT : Edited to be clearer that US citizens can not be denied entry into the US as pointed out by @littleadv . EDIT December 2013 court case finds against EFF : <URL>
Here 's my own answer : It 's OK to ride a bicycle on any road in Switzerland except an Autobahn/Autostrasse . These are easy to recognize ( for Americans ) because they 're akin to interstate highways in the U.S. : Limited access points , multiple lanes each direction , and high speeds . You 're not that likely to accidentally enter one on a bicycle . You can also recognize them by this sign : Given that the road 12 I was asking about was only single-lane each way , had low speed limits , and had numerous businesses and houses with street-front access , it was pretty clearly not an Autobahn or Autostrasse . As best I can tell , the road I rode on was the " old " highway 12 between Bern and Fribourg before the Autobahn/Autostrasse was built and also given a designation of 12 . We do that kind of thing here the U.S. as well , but we usually remove the designation from the old road .
Will you need visas ? Yes Based on hippietrail 's great comment , here 's the breakdown : Canadian : Fiji : No visa Indonesia : Visa on Arrival ( VOA ) Thailand : No visa ( expect to get entry stamps in your passports ) Cambodia : VOA Laos : VOA Vietnam : Visa required before entry ( or pre-approval , read below ) Swede ( same requirements as Canada for these countries ) : Fiji : No visa Indonesia : visa on Arrival ( VOA ) Thailand : No visa ( expect to get entry stamps in your passports ) Cambodia : VOA Laos : VOA Vietnam : Visa required before entry ( or pre-approval , read below ) Notes Many countries require at least six months of validity left on your passports when you enter . This means that when you enter the last country of your itinerary you need at least six months of validity . It looks like you 're getting close to 30 days in Thailand . The limit for you in Thailand is 30 days . Do not overstay your visa in any country . It is not worth the risk of complications and it 's usually easy to get your stay legally extended . Prevention in better than the cure . Indonesia VOA will require money ( not a bribe , a legitimate charge ) . They accept Indonesian Rupiah , US dollars and credit card ( I would n't count on the credit card , the system may be down ) . There is an ATM right next to the area where you pay for your visas . However , I would make sure I have the funds in US dollars before I arrive in Indonesia . Visas for Vietnam There are two ways to go about this for your particular situation . Pay online to get you visa preapproved . You 'll get a letter e-mailed to you with your name , passport number , and date of entry and departure on it . When you pass through immigration present the letter and your passport to the agent and you will get a visa put in your passport by them ( you may need to submit a passport photo too ) . It feels a little sketchy doing it online but it works . Do your due diligence to make sure you are n't getting scammed , it looks like there are a lot of websites you can go through . The price varies depending on how quickly you want the approval done . Request your visa through your nearest Vietnamese embassy or consulate . This will require , among other things , mailing your passport to the Embassy or Consulate ( with a self addressed andstamped return envelope ) and they will put the visa in .
There 's an important distinction between leaving the US temporarily , and leaving permanently , which is as much as anything dictated by you returning to your place of residence . If you are in the US under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) and you leave the US for a few weeks to visit Canada ( or Mexico ) with an intent to return to the US then you are deemed to have only temporarily left the US for that period , and thus your 90 days carries through - even though you 're out of the country . In the days of the I-94W forms ( the green form you used to fill in when arriving in the US ) , you would actually keep your I-94W in your passport even when you left the US . If you are leaving US to return to your place of residence , then you are leaving permanently . In this case your VWP period would end when you left the country , and historically that 's when you would have turned in your I-94W . As you have a work visa to be in Canada , for the period of that visa Canada would be your place of residence . That means that every time you leave the US your visit will have deemed to have ended as you 've returned to your place of residence , and thus permanently left the US - which means that when you re-enter the US the VWP clock will be restarted . At the end of the day the Canada/Mexico condition is intended to stop people doing visa runs from the US to Canada/Mexico , thus getting another 90 days on their VWP . If it 's clear that 's not what you 're doing then you 'll have no issues . Do n't forget that to enter the US under the VWP you will first need to <URL> . ( Note : Usual provisions apply . IANAL , but I 've entered the US around 40 times both on VWP and on Visas so I know the processes fairly well ! If you want a definite answer , either contact <URL> , or talk to a qualified immigration lawyer )
<URL> , a visa is indeed required for Kazakhstan . However , only Kazakhstan . It redirects you to an <URL> : So the only weirdness there is that it does depend on which airport you fly into , but assuming you 're using one of the main ones , you should be fine there . For further information , we defer to the <URL> : Here you can find the actual form for <URL> . Note that nowhere on it does it require any other visas . Short version - aside from a visa for Kazakhstan , no further visas are required , UNLESS you 're going to other countries before Kazakhstan , in which case you 'll need visas for those countries , if required .
This varies from Car Rental company to Car Rental company . I 've found <URL> of most major car rental companies and their policy w.r.t. to driving the car to Mexico . Most do n't allow it . Some do allow it with additional coverage for just such an occasion like <URL> . So if you know which car rental company you will be renting from you can look at their terms and conditions and get the real answer . P.S. Technically though you could drive your rental car to Mexico and not tell anyone and border control will likely not bother you about it but would you really want to take the risk ?
Although I agree 35L can be enough if you only intend to carry two changes of clothes and some small gear , I 'm not sure you 'll be comfortable enough having most of your things hanging outside your backpack ( and this will be the case for at least your tent , your sleeping mat - either on top or bottom of your bag - , and maybe your stove and tins . Even your shoes , if it 's summer ) . You can put your camera , your first aid kit ( bring one ! ) and your clothes inside . You 'll still be fine with a 35L , but if you are also bringing food and water you might consider a 50L . It really depends on what sort of trip you are planning , what places you want to visit and what 's available around those . You 'll still have to carry whatever you chose to bring , but backpacks do n't have much weight by themselves so a bigger one is not that costly .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
There appears to be no self-service laundromats or laundrettes in the Peak District proper any more . Instead there are only laundry services in <URL> ( GBP 9 per load ) or <URL> ( GBP 4 per kilogram ) , both of which are decidedly more expensive than doing laundry yourself but correspondingly more convenient . However there are a couple of options just outside the Peak District itself . There is a laundrette in <URL> if you are in the northern half and one in <URL> if you 're staying further south . These are both easily accessible by public transport from various parts in the Peak District depending upon your location .
<URL> shows that SCAT Airlines flies from MCX to Aktau , Kazakhstan , which technically is in Asia ( despite being only 300 km away , it 's on the other side of the Caspian Sea ) . These flights did n't seem to show up on Kayak , but it may be that SCAT does n't sell tickets through Kayak . All the other flights listed are within Russia .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
According to Wikipedia , <URL> Attempting to conceal it by disassembling will not change the legal status , but will leave you open for further legal issues . The Canadian regulations are similar , but obviously not that relevant if you ca n't first take is to Sweden .
end question
start question
What happens if you are caught ( accidentally ) not declaring something at customs ?
In Switzerland it will depend if it 's an illegal article or if you fail to pay duty . In the first case ( if it 's mildly illegal , usually counterfeit watches , I 'm not talking guns or anything ) they 'll just seize it and <URL> it , no fine involved . There is a slight chance that the copyright owner might <URL> , but I think the chances are you 'll just lose the product but be fine . I guess the same will happen if you take some seeds or some meat from outside the EU or something else that 's prohibited . If you fail to declare something that you have to pay duty on however , you 're likely to have to pay a fine on top of the duty fee . That happens quite often to people <URL> on the other side of the border .
Most of the major travel websites such as <URL> and <URL> will allow you to search multiple rental car companies in one search . My personal preference is <URL> who display the results in a clean table of company v 's car size . Where rental cars differ from airlines ( and thus services like " matrix " that you 're referring to from ITA Software ) is that they work far less on published prices , and far more on discounts , " corporate " codes , and coupons . The rates you 're going to get from any of the search engines above are generally not going to be as good as those that you 'll get directly from the rental car company using a discount code or a company code for something like AAA ( if you 're a member ) , your airlines Frequent Flyer program , or even just a promo code or coupon listed on the rental companies website ! Personally I will normally use Orbitz to get a general feel for which of the rental companies is cheaper for the dates I 'm after , and then head to those companies website and see if any coupons/AAA discount/etc will make the rate shown even cheaper . And remember , most rental car companies do not charge to change/cancel bookings ( except for pre-paid rates ) , and prices do change over time , so re-checking your rates as you get nearer to the booking can save you some real money !
It 's complicated , but as always , <URL> . The short version is that in the vast majority of cases , the baby will inherit one or more citizenships from its parents through <URL> , and nothing more . If the baby is born within the territorial limits of a country that applies <URL> , including flying overheard and within nautical limits , the baby may be eligible for citizenship of that country as well . If the baby 's parents are of unknown citizenship , stateless or citizens of countries that do n't do jus sanguinis at all ( not sure any exist ? ) , and they ca n't get any citizenships via jus soli ( eg . birth occurred in international waters ) , the <URL> will kick in : Article 3 For the purpose of determining the obligations of contracting states under this convention , birth on a ship or aircraft shall amount to birth in the territory of the State that gives its flag to that ship or aircraft . So the birth will be treated as if it occurred in the country that registered the plane or ship . This does n't mean the baby automatically gets that country 's citizenship , but the Convention aims to ensure that if they ca n't get anything else , they 'll get this as a fallback . Since not all countries have signed the Convention , and not all countries that signed it have enacted it in law or in practice , it 's still possible to fall through the gaps . Post any interesting cases in the comments ;)
Because Kings Cross station is one of the handful of big stations both owned and managed by the infrastructure operator Network Rail , the best source of information is n't National Rail Enquires ( as normally would be the case ) , but <URL> , and more specifically <URL> This contains quite a bit more showering details : By the entrance to platforms 9-11 . Monday to Sunday 07:00 - 21:00 # 5 , pay at Excess Baggage , soap included . Towels available - deposit required . This is almost all correct ... On arrival at Kings Cross , head towards platforms 9-11 . Go past platform 9 3/4 ( really ! ) , and by the stairs up to the Parcel Yard pub is the Excess Baggage Company office . Go in there , pay them a fiver , and they 'll give you a receipt . Next , follow the corridor by the Excess Baggage Company signposted as Toilets . At that barrier , ring the bell , and show them your receipt . They 'll get you a towel ( no charge/deposit ) and some shower gel , then unlock a hidden door in the appropriate toilet area ( male/female ) . You then go in and lock the door . The shower , at least on the male side , is in good condition and quite large . The non-shower area in the room is a little small , but does have 3 sturdy coat hooks . One downside - no shower curtain , so you 'll need to hang most things up to avoid it getting wet ! Plenty of water pressure ( maybe too much given no shower curtain ... ) , nice and warm water , decent shower gel and pretty good towel . For a fiver , and after a long journey , it 's not bad .
No , it 's fine . Unused visas are common for business travellers ( I have several in my passports ) , and are not considered a problem for future visa applications , at Immigration , etc. .
Short answer : The captain has to divert to the nearest airport in case the urgent medical attention will save a life . Long answer : The first thing the crew should do once there is a sick passenger is looking for a medical professional onboard . A doctor will be preferred but a nurse or so will do the job in case no doctor is available . Now if there is a medical professional onboard then he/she will be in charge of deciding whether to land the aircraft in the nearest airport or not ( emergency landing ) . The confusion comes when no doctor is available onboard , usually the pilot will decide to land right away in case of heart attacks or seizures or when the passenger is unconscious . Meanwhile the crew will try their best to save the passenger 's life , all crew members are trained for <URL> and almost all aircrafts are equipped with <URL> , doctor kits and first aid kits .
The contents of the main page in a passport is dictated by standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization ( ICAO ) , specifically the Machine Readable Travel Documents standard ( <URL> ) . This document states that all passport photos should meet the following requirements : Pose 1.1 . The photograph should be less than six months old . 1.2 . It should show a close up of the head and shoulders . 1.3 . The photograph should be taken so that an imaginary horizontal line between the centres of the eyes is parallel to the top edge of the picture . 1.4 . The face should be in sharp focus and clear with no blemishes such as ink marks , pen , pin , paper clip , staples , folds , dents , or creases . 1.5 . The photograph should show the subject facing square on and looking directly at the camera with a neutral expression and the mouth closed . 1.6 . The chin to crown ( crown is the position of the top of the head if there were no hair ) shall be 70 -80 % of the vertical height of the picture . 1.7 . The eyes must be open and there must be no hair obscuring them . 1.8 . If the subject wears glasses , the photograph must show the eyes clearly with no lights reflected in the glasses . The glasses shall not have tinted lenses . Avoid heavy frames if possible and ensure that the frames do not cover any part of the eyes . Sunglasses can not be worn or appear on the person 's head . 1.9 . Coverings , hair , headdress , hats , scarfs , head bands , bandanas or facial ornamentation which obscure the face , are not permitted ( except for religious or medical reasons . In all cases , the person 's full facial features from bottom of chin to top of forehead and both edges of the face must be clearly visible ) . 1.10 . The photograph must have a plain light coloured background . 1.11 . There must be no other people , chair back , or objects in the photograph . Lighting , Exposure , and Colour Balance 2.1 . The lighting must be uniform with no shadows or reflections on the face , eye-glasses or in the background . 2.2 . The subject 's eyes must not show red eye . 2.3 . The photograph must have appropriate brightness and contrast . 2.4 . Where the picture is in colour , the lighting , and photographic process must be colour balanced to render skin tones faithfully . Submission of Portrait to the Issuing Authority Where the portrait is supplied to the Issuing Authority in the form of a print , the photograph , whether produced using conventional photographic or digital techniques , should be on good or photo-quality paper . Compliance with International Standards 4.1 . The photograph shall comply with the appropriate definitions set out in ISO/IEC 1974 -- 5 . The last of the points above is probably the most important as far as " why " - <URL> defines standards for Biometric data interchange formats , with part 5 specifically being Face image data . According to the ISO/IEC 19794 documents : To enable many applications on variety of devices , including devices that have the limited resources required for data storage , and to improve face recognition accuracy , this part of ISO/IEC 19794 specifies not only a data format , but also scene constraints ( lighting , pose , expression , etc. ) , photographic properties ( positioning , camera focus , etc. ) , digital image attributes ( image resolution , image size , etc. ) .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
Arguably , no . What if you do n't have an address ? What if you 've just moved back ? <URL> and assume you 're staying somewhere - and as a result , hotel addresses are acceptable . So if you wanted to legally dodge it without any possible problems , book a night at a hostel , and use that hostel 's address on the form . As for refusing , I 've seen people try , and it does n't work . The border guys want an address . However , it 's just process - I 've seen one backpacker literally turn and ask anyone behind in the queue if they know the address of a hotel , and someone named the one from Pretty Woman on Rodeo Drive . So he wrote that in , and handed it to the border guard , who shrugged , stamped , and completed the process .
They are different . The reason people use the terms interchangeably is that at many border crossings ( especially at airports ) one set of people handle both . Customs is about the stuff you are bringing into the country . Is it allowed , should you pay duty , should it be confiscated and burned , etc. . By default , none of your stuff is allowed in , even if you 're a citizen returning home . Immigration is about a person who is visiting , immigrating , or returning home . By default visitors are ( technically ) turned away unless they have a good reason and meet other criteria ( for example visitors to Canada may be turned away if they have a criminal record ) and those who live here are let in . Immigrants are let in if the paperwork they 've done in advance is all correct . Both processes involve " who are you , where are you coming from , why are you coming here , why were you there " and so on . Both involve a uniformed person , your passport , and probably your baggage . For example if you say you are visiting for 3 days , but you have brought weeks worth of clothing - probably all you own - along with more permanent possessions like books , photo albums , and CDs , an immigration officer may suspect you are moving here . Customs officers may want to inspect your baggage for contraband , and your explanation for your visit may make the difference between being inspected or not . As a result they are considered a single process in most people 's minds . To add to the complication , many airlines wo n't let you board unless you convince them you will be let in at your destination , and some airports ( especially in Europe ) want to look at your passport and other immigration-related documentation several times before you get to the boarding gate . None of this counts as " clearing customs and immigration " but it may sure feel like it .
Ultimately there is no penalty for writing the country name wrong on your Immigration form . The list is there to allow the immigration officer quickly determine if any secondary questions should be asked or to inform customs that perhaps a secondary inspection might be warranted ( often used by Agriculture Department to route people for Ag Inspections ) . Since Crimea currently is sort of a no man 's land when it comes to being officially recognized , I would just write down Crimea by itself . If the Immigration officer feels it should be written as Ukraine or something else , they will either change it for you or ask you to update the form . They will likely be more concerned as to why you were in Crimea , rather than how you wrote it on your form .
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
In principle overbooking does not happen in ryanair and in most LCCs . There might be other reasons but one of them is to assure that you take your hand luggage with you . Ryanair charges extra for checked in luggage therefore almost everyone carries hand luggage . This used to be a problem because there is not enough space inside the cabin for everyone to put their luggage . Currently hand-luggage that does not fit goes to the cargo hold . They usually start distributing the tags to put the luggage on the cargo hold among the last persons on the queue . If you want to be sure your luggage flyes with you the only way is to queue early ( or buy the priority boarding ) . If your luggage goes into the cargo hold under this conditions you do n't need to pay extra . You actually deliver the luggage when you walk to the airplane .
While I could n't find anything that pertains strictly to FedEx , I found <URL> website which offers a similar service . Their terms seem to answers your questions . The luggage would go through customs just like any package being sent through the mail would be . Having the contents packed into a suitcase instead of a cardboard box makes little difference to them when screening . There would be no way to avoid a fee . Any fee incurred would be charged to you once your luggage arrives at it 's destination . Just like mailing a package , the customer must provide a list of everything contained in the suitcase . Any duties , taxes or other fees incurred during the customs inspection process will be passed on to the customer . To ensure an expedited customs clearance process and to minimize duties , taxes or other fees imposed by customs or similar authorities , customer is responsible for supplying Luggage Free ® with the complete contents of each Item in the shipment .
In many hotels you can just drop your keys in a box on your way out ( or leave them in your room ) and the charges will go to the credit card on file . Should you become aware that the card wo n't work , one approach would simply be to stay as long as you had intended , pack your bags , and just leave . Undoubtedly the hotel will call or email you within a few days looking for their money , and you can sort it all out then . Nobody detains you , there 's no talk of police or fines or jail , you settle your bill and that 's that . What if you discover the problem only as you are checking out ? Pretty much the same approach . You try a few things - another credit card , offering them a debit card , and so on . If one of those works , great . If not , you put your stuff back in your room and leave the hotel to go sort it out . ( Dragging your stuff around while you settle a problem would be a pain , so you want to leave it , and it makes them feel they have a hold on you . But it 's in your room and you have a key , so really they do n't , right ? ) If you 're sure you ca n't sort it out anywhere in this town , and it 's a large hotel so they ca n't really track your coming and going , you can go out for a while , then return to your room and leave with your stuff , leaving the key , and sort it out over the next few days . If it 's a small hotel , a B &amp; B almost , that will see you every time you come in or go out , then just plain leaving is a little more problematic . They could try to prevent you from leaving . You will have to be open with them . Try all the possible solutions . For example , in Canada we can email each other money , so I could ask a friend to email me money , which would go into my bank account , then pay with a debit card all in about 20 minutes ( after locating a friend who is willing to help of course , and with a device available for getting my email and clicking links . ) Or the same thing , but I go out to an ATM and withdraw cash if the hotel does n't take debit . If you try all these solutions in front of them - emailing and calling people , calling your credit card company and so on - they may begin to trust you that you are n't trying to rip them off , and let you leave to sort it out at home . It is going to boil down to whether people believe you are trying to cheat them , or really had a problem . A business traveller in a large expensive hotel will have a lot less trouble than a backpacker in a small hotel . I do n't think any authorities will lend you money ; the best they might do is vouch to the hotel ( for example that you really were robbed ) so that you can leave and pay the bill when you get home .
You can easily fly to Zurich . The connections from Brussels to Zurich are way better than the connections from Brussels to Basel . And from Zurich you 're in less than a hour in Basel when you take the train . The prices for that train travel start around 15 Swiss franks . The SBB ( Swiss national train carrier ) has an <URL> . I found flights for around 300 euros for next week ( with <URL> ) You could also fly over Geneva to Zurich which is cheaper ( around 200 euro ) . Then I would think about only take the first leg of the flight , leave the plane in Geneva and take the train . But this really depends on the actual date and time you 're going to fly . You could also fly to Geneva , but this is a little bit further away from Basel . The train takes <URL> . There are also other airports nearby which may be useful ( even if I doubt it ) . This are particularly Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein .
Generally , if you have a through booking , then if you miss the flight because of the airline 's fault then you become their problem . This does n't mean you 'll automatically get put on the next flight . You 'll need to talk to the airline and ask for help , and ask for re-booking . If the next flight has spare seats , then all should be well . Most likely though , you 'll get put on standby for the next flight , and hopefully will make the next one or the one after . As it 's the airline 's fault , you should get meal vouchers , help with a hotel if needed etc. ( Note - the exact level of help you get depends on the jurisdiction you 're in , and the home jurisdiction of the airline ) However , if you miss the connecting flight because of your own fault ( eg you fall asleep while waiting near the gate ) , then it 's probably no different to if you have two independent bookings ...
I would n't worry about it . Other than wikileaks activists , I 've never heard of anyone having the data on their electronic devices searched when entering/departing the U.S. or Europe . If it 's going to cause you anxiety and make you act strange , however , it would be better to delete the files just to give you peace of mind . This is not because there is any chance that the files would get you into trouble , but because acting strange could cause trouble .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
They are worthless . Happened to me some years ago , drove to Miami , walked in the airport , just to find the counters closed ; at the neighboring counter they told me that they filed for bankruptcy this morning . I had to buy a new ticket from another airline ( for an arm and a leg , of course ) . Note that if you bought the ticket through a provider ( like kayak , expedia , or travelocity , etc. ) they are probably responsible for the price . In my case , they refunded the original price without discussion . They do not pay the newer , higher price ticket that was needed , though .
end question
start question
Where can I rent a suit for a wedding in Tehran , Iran ?
It 's actually really easy and common , it turns out . Pity , as I bought a suit in Canada in advance . If you come out of Sa'adi metro station , and walk west - between the station and Ferdowsi avenue on both sides , there are a LOT of suit hire places . Many of them have tuxes as their show pieces in the window , but have regular suit hire too . I 've seen it elsewhere in Tehran , as well as other Iranian cities , but this was the biggest grouping that I found .
They are called Goodwill Guides . Your description is spot on . They only want to have travel etc paid for . But you will not only find students but also retirees and housewives . I know <URL> with a huge list . <URL> that covers several areas of Japan . If you are in Tokyo , you might want to go directly to <URL> .
You 'll want to go to a locutório ( like a small shop ) . It 'll be called that - " Locutório " with a purple sign saying " SUBE " in the window . Where are these shops ? There 's a handy website that <URL> . Then according to a <URL> : You 'll fill out a small application with your name , address , and passport/DNI number and pay the $ 20 ARS . However , your card will not come loaded with funds and the locutório may not charge SUBE cards . So you will have to find a kiosko that does . There are many along Santa Fe that sport the SUBE logo in their windows . These places may or may not be able to charge your card at that time , so again , you 'll just have to ask . When you find a charging station , you can have up to $ 50 ARS put on the card at a time . The clerk will charge your card on a space age sensor machine and hand you a receipt with the proof of funds .
Where you live or what other passports you hold is irrelevant . If you apply for your Iranian visa with your Canadian passport , you will enter as a Canadian , not an American .
Here 's a community wiki to add to if there are more than these two : Embassy in Hanoi , as expected : 46 Hoang Dieu Rd , ☎ +84 4 3845-3736 . Consulate in Ho Chi Minh , as expected : 175 Hai Bà Trưng , District 1 , ☎ +84 8 3829-2463 , fax : +84 8 3827-5845 These first two answers are from Wikivoyage . I went through each page for each city in Vietnam and did not find any others . But you never know ... The <URL> agrees that these are the only two . The <URL> and <URL> pages on the Chinese Ministry of Foreign website also agrees these are the only two .
This liability insurance issue depends on every country . As for the US in particular , every state may have a different policy . It is indeed required in many states to have liability insurance . In most states where liability insurance is required , the rental car company will provide a minimum coverage . But be careful , as stated in <URL> : Financial Responsibility Limits by State The following chart lists the Automobile Financial Responsibility Limits of the various states . Hertz is not required to provide such minimum protection in all states . However , the purchase of LIS will include primary protection which combines these minimum limits of protection with an excess insurance policy to provide the first $ 1,000,000 of combined bodily injury and/or property damage for each occurrence . Georgia : 25/50/25 ( Per Person Bodily Injury/All Persons Bodily Injury/All Property Damage ( in thousands of dollars ) ) Hertz clearly says the liability is not always provided . They add : At many Hertz locations , you receive secondary liability protection , and , in a few locations , no liability protection under the terms of the Rental Agreement from claims of injury by others against you resulting from an accident with your rental car . Some locations provide primary protection under the Rental Agreement . However , in those situations where protection is provided by Hertz , such protection is generally no more than the minimum limits required by individual state law . ( See chart for these Financial Responsibility Limits . ) So , clearly , it depends on every rental location . Avis , <URL> ( Protections/Coverages > Automobile liability ... ) is clearer on which states are concerned : there is no provided coverage for California , Texas and Utah . In Missouri , the state 's minimum coverage is provided if the customer has no coverage on its own . From the name ( SLP ) of the suggested liability insurance option , it is possible your rental company is <URL> . Even if not clear , the words they use suggest they do NOT provide any liability insurance at all without SLP : If the renter accepts SLP , Enterprise provides third party liability protection up to the applicable minimum financial responsibility limit . the renter should examine his or her personal insurance policies or other sources of coverage that may duplicate the coverage provided by SLP . So I would recommend you to read the fine prints of your rental car company to figure what its policy is exactly regarding Georgia , to know if you need to suscribe a liability insurance option or not .
I just found a Tesla Model S ( " or similar " , which is what they put on every car , but they say they 'll contact you to confirm after you book ) from Sixt searching for a pickup from Frankfurt Airport ( I randomly used 06/20/2016 -06 / 22/2016 ) for a mere US$ 360.71 / day . So they appear to have at least one for rent . Whether it 's available under the exact terms you want is something you might need to contact them about .
70 Euro 's per day is indeed ridiculous . It is however not uncommon to demand a large deposit . So could it be that the 70 euro is to cover the deposit ? It will be difficult to find a sport bike . The surroundings of Amsterdam are really flat , so you only would need a sport bike if you go for speed . When renting a bike , you could ask a city bike with gears . It is not uncommon for city bikes in the Netherlands to have at least 3 gears . A good renting spot for bicycles are the train stations of the Dutch rail ways . Their <URL> is Dutch only which shows that they typically do n't aim for a audience of tourists . Which does n't mean that you ca n't rent a bike there as a tourist . Their prices are however quite affordable : Om een fiets te huren , heeft u een geldig legitimatiebewijs nodig . U betaalt een borg variërend van $ 50 , - ( voor de eenvoudigste fiets ) tot $ 145 , - ( voor een tandem ) . Een merkfiets zonder versnellingen met terugtraprem kost circa $ 7,50 tot $ 15 , - per dag . Dit bedrag is inclusief verzekering tegen diefstal . Vaak is het ook mogelijk om een toerfiets met versnellingen , een tandemfiets of een elektrische fiets te huren . Which translates to : You 'll need formal identification to rent a bike . A deposit ranging from 50 ( for the simplest bike , to 145 ( for a tandem ) is required . A bike from a known brand without gear costs between 7,50 and 15,00 . This includes theft insurance . It is also possible to rent a tourbike with gear , a tandem of an electric bicycle . There are a few train stations in Amsterdam , which offer rental bikes . Amsterdam Central is included , however I would advice to go to a less central station ( e.g. Amsterdam Amstel ) , to avoid the crowds a bit . The bicycles from the train stations are quite decent . In know people who traveled > 200 km in one day on such a rental .
Good luck if you want to take a bus in Marrakech ... According to the Moroccan Airports Authority there is <URL> . This shuttle is running at an hourly frequency , between 6.25 am and 12.25 am on the following route : Departure Airport - Hivernage - Jemaa El Fna - Bab Doukkala - Gueliz - ONCF Station - Arrival Airport The one-way ticket costs 30 MAD and the round trip 50 MAD . There is a place not far from the Jemaa El Fna square where you can catch the main city buses . On the other hand , note that the main sights can and must be visited on foot . For instance , there is no bus crossing the Medina . If you want to go to a place a bit outside , such as the Majorelle Gardens , you can take a so-called small taxi . These taxis have meters , and the drivers are supposed to use them ( you have to insist ) . Note that 25 MAD will take you rather far already .
My Japanese friend tried this week in Islamabad ( not near the border but better than nothing ) , at the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran . Conclusion : It is hard to get , but not impossible ! The first time she tried , she was turned down . The second time she tried even harder , and that worked ! She paid a Rs . 5000 visa fee .
<URL> is rather helpful and includes these Usually , Rent-A-Wreck requires renters to be at least 18 years old , but some locations may require a minimum age of 25 years . For consumers under 25 , a credit card is usually required for payment and the rental rate may be higher . Please contact the individual Rent-A-Wreck car rental location for their specific age policies . Many , but not all , Rent-A-Wreck locations will rent to cash customers . Most locations will require that cash customers fill out a cash qualification questionnaire at the rental location during normal business hours so that it may be verified . A cash deposit will be required if a credit card is not presented for payment . If you are interested in renting a car using cash , please contact the individual location for their specific prices and policies . Debit cards or ' check cards ' carrying the logo of a major bank processor like VISA or MasterCard that are linked to checking accounts are also accepted as a form of payment at most Rent-A-Wreck locations . In Canada they redirect to <URL> which have many , many Toronto locations . Good luck !
Here 's a <URL> I found which would explain your options in detail . As far as options go , you have several . Now since you mentioned you do n't want to do check in luggage , you can either carry it on you or in your cabin luggage . Fold it Up - This is what I usually do . Now I admit that doing the same in a cabin luggage is a little bit difficult but most cabin luggage which completely utilize the dimensions allowed on typical international flights would suffice . Of course you will have to fold your suit into a quarter to fit it in though . Wear It ! - It 's a great option especially because it shifts a lot of weight from your suitcase to yourself allowing you extra room to carry other stuff . The good part about this option is that you look great ! The bad part , your suit might get wrinkled on a long flight ( Not the best option if you have a meeting the next day ) . Roll It ! - I have n't personally tried this one , but I 'm a bit skeptical regarding whether the suit would not wrinkle or come out as mush . I would n't like to try this in the near future either though . But it does save a lot of space . Hanging Bag - I 've tried this one too , but I would n't recommend it at all , simply because it 's too painful and it might count as a separate item ( akin to a laptop bag or a guitar ) . Policies on airlines differ regarding it as well , but it is theoretically the best way ( for your suit ) to do it .
I 've had a look at a few US based RV hire websites , and they all seem to say the same thing . That is , for normal sized RVs you need to be over 21 , you need to have held your license for over a year , and for Europeans you need an International Driving Permit if your license is n't in English ( which I guess your Belgian one wo n't be ) . Very large RVs , and those with air brakes seem to be different though . I did see a few discussions suggesting that you may wish to take your C1 course ( the license class needed to drive large RVs in Europe ) . The main reason for that is to ensure you 're happy and safe driving a large vehicle . It 'll also have the bonus that if you like RVing , you can continue doing it when you get home ! One slight wrinkle is that licensing in the US is handled state by state , and in Canada province by province too . The best advice seems to be to ring up the hire car company you 're planning to use , and ask them . It 's not impossible that their insurance will have stricter requirements than the legal minimum , so that may be the limiting factor anyway . Most of the big companies should be used to visiting Europeans , so ask them and see !
If you do a search with the terms sushi com chocolate ( sushi with chocolate ) you will find plenty of recepies . Nevertheless , it 's certainly not a trend , I have ate sweet sushi before but I had never heard of norimaki with chocolate before . It 's really common to find sweet temakis ( " sweet kones " ) for dessert , I would n't be surprised to find one with chocolate , but they certainly do n't have fish on them :) They are not temaki in my opinion , as they are normally not rolled in nori . It depends on where you are , but I 'd search for temaki doce ( sweet temaki ) , along with the name of the city where you are to find places to eat .
<URL> do offer what you 're looking for . It 's also possible to bathe in a large champagne glass : <URL>
The <URL> is pretty central and offers a view from 168.60 m over the city . Just make sure you go there when it 's clear , and not foggy/rainy outside .
Let me share my actual experience . I flew with Delta two days ago . I had a small backpack , and a booster seat ( I did n't bring another bag ) . I flew alone . They allowed me check in the booster seat for free , and told me that it would have been free if I had another carry-on bag . It might be that the person was just good , but it seems that they give generosity to child items .
The tourist information offices in Ireland ( <URL> ) sell booklets with maps of campsites . I got one in the Dublin office for $ 5 . It lists loads of campsites , has some photographs of them , lists details ( opening days , phone numbers , directions , facilities , etc. ) . They also sell booklets of B&amp;B 's / Hotels . That has an overview map , but would n't count as a street atlas . As far as I know most road atlases ( which can be bought almost anywhere , in many bookshops and newsagents around the country ) will mark campsites , they wo n't have the level of detail ( like phone numbers so you can ring ahead and book or get directions ) that the one from the tourist information office will have , so I recommend supplimenting your street atlas with this campsite directory . Are you camping , or taking a caravan/mobile home . ( Caravaning in Ireland has other problems )
Right , this took some searching , as most sites just mention the artists like Youssou N'Dour . According to the <URL> , number 687 ( in the edition I looked at ) is experiencing Mbalax in Dakar , Senegal . And apparently , local and international legend Seck hosts live mbalax nights at the Kilimanjaro club , next to the Soumbedioune evening fish market .
There are many resources you can look at . You can probably start with official tourist guides for the states such as <URL> or <URL> , but if not you can probably <URL> or use <URL> , which has some of the many rodeos listed state by state .
end question
start question
Which side of the Zagreb - Ljubljana Train has more scenic views ?
I did that train ride a few years ago and remember sitting on the right side of the train . The River was on the right side for most of the time as well . We were in a compartment and we could always go outside to stand in the corridor to look out on the left side as well . I do n't remember it being a very narrow valley , so I think you have some views on both sides . Also I do n't think the whole two and a half hours were super special . Edit : I just realized you are going from Zagreb to Ljubljana , I went the other way , so in that case sit on the left side of the train .
I see that every answer here is going on and on about special , luxury trains . This is specifically what the OP does NOT want . <URL> , trains higher up in the hierarchy are usually costlier . There are some exceptions , such as ' Garib Raths ' where the air-conditioned fares are lower than those of ' Express ' or ' Mail ' trains , but by and large this list shows the hierarchy of trains . Within a specific hierarchy ( such as ' Express ' ) and for a specific fare class such as ' sleeper ' or ' third sleeper ' , the fare is proportional to distance . This implies that for ' regular ' trains , the most expensive fare simply depends upon the distance . This can be found from the list of <URL> .
I use <URL> and must say that it is amazing . That 's a subjective description and now for the objective one : First my tests at home I tried putting it in a pint glass ( 0.5 liter ) full of water and it absorbed about 85 % if not more of it . It did drip though but let 's be honest , you 'll never gon na be that wet to start with . It does n't drip at all if you spill half a pint of liquid on it . It can dry up any surface much quicker than the cotton towel as it absorbs the liquid more efficiently . After a " pintful " test , the towel dried up in about 40 minutes in a room with 40 % humidity and around 20 ° C ( 68 ° F ) . A damp towel dries in about 15-20 minutes in the same conditions mentioned above . In the wild It is unbelievably light , only 15 dag ( 1/3 lb ) . It will be a bit weird at first but you do n't wipe yourself with it , you just pat it over your skin . It dries in half an hour in shade or only 5-10 minutes in sun . Of course , you ca n't just bundle it and expect it to dry that quick , just put it on a clothesline . The company offers other models as well , check them out <URL> .
Oh this is mine . Firstly , you 'll want the flight path . This is <URL> , provided they stick to it . <URL> . This is correct . I 'll now explain why . As you can see from the map , you fly over water a bit , down the coast . The only visible land is to your left . So initially , you definitely want the left . Then you 'll cross over part of the Taranaki coast out by New Plymouth . If you 're lucky , you 'll have a clear view of Mt Taranaki / Egmont . If it passes slightly more inland , to your LEFT again , you may have a view of volcanoes Ruapehu ( erupted in 1997 ) Ngauruhoe and Tongariro . You may recognise Mt Doom from Lord of the Rings ;) Further south you may get a glimpse of Wellington , before crossing Cook Strait and seeing the beautiful Marlborough Sounds , or if slightly further west - Golden Bay and Farewell Spit . Then the best part starts - the South Island and the imposing Southern Alps . There 's some snow at all times of the year , but it does n't matter when - they 're stunning to see and fly over . You 'll also get to see the amazing lakes - Tekapo , Pukaki , Hawea and Wanaka , and finally Wakatipu - the lake alongside the alpine city of Queenstown . With the Remarkables range in the background , this setting is spectacular , and initially the left side is best , although the plane will then turn in towards the airport . And then you 'll have the final approach . One of the most amazing approaches you 'll ever do by air - flying between the mountains ( with no radar , btw ) and down to the little airport , 10 min outside of Queenstown . At this point LEFT or RIGHT is fine - it 's spectacular both ways , and the plane usually circles once before going in . Finally , touchdown ! Welcome to Queenstown . Do n't forget to Bungy jump ;) EDIT And naturally , flying back up to Auckland , you 'll want to sit on the right hand side for this scenery . However for the South Island part , either side is spectacular - it 's just the North Island that the left pretty much just looks over ocean ...
As of today , no . Nothing has currently changed ( other than currency prices , which are of interest to international travelers ) . There will be a prolonged negotiating period over the next several years ( specifically , two years after <URL> is invoked unless a different agreement is reached ) , and immigration controls will inevitably be a large part of those discussions . The results of those negotiations , along with potential future events in the UK and EU , may bring any number of future changes for anybody , regardless of citizenship , interested in short or long-term travel to the UK and for UK citizens looking to visit EU countries . There are also no current plans for immigration changes for Commonwealth or other visa-free nationals ( such as US/Canadian citizens ) . Until these negotiations are completed and implemented , the UK remains a member of the EU , and all existing laws apply with no changes . As changes are proposed and enacted , travelers will need to remain alert for potential effects .
Gurgaon has a lot to offer to its visitors . You can check out the following places : Damdama Lake : Damdamaa reservoir in Sohna , Gurgaon district in the Indian state of Haryana . It is one of the biggest lakes in Haryana and with an area of 3,000 acres ( 12.14 km2 ) . Damdama Lake was formed when a stone and earthen dam constructed by the British was commissioned for rain water harvesting in 1947 . <URL> <URL> Sultanpur National Park : <URL> ( Hindi : सुल्तानपुर राष्ट्रीय वन्यजीव अभयारण्य ) ( formerly Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary ) is located at Sultanpur fifteen kilometres from Gurgaon , Haryana and 50 km from Delhi in India . <URL> Sohna : <URL> is a town and a municipal committee in the Gurgaon district of Haryana , India . The City of Sohna is a popular tourist location , especially as a weekend and conference retreat . It is located 24 km from the city on the highway from Gurgaon to Alwar , near a vertical rock . It is famous for its hot springs and ancient Shiva temple . <URL> Nuh : The place is the district head quarters of the Mewat district . The place has few historical monuments , like shaking minarets ; they are the only vibrating minarets in India . Only due to lack of maintenance it did n't attract many of the tourists . It requires great attention from the government . <URL> <URL> <URL>
It 's actually a lot simpler than the WikiVoyage article makes out , so no need to worry ! ( I 've now fixed that page ... ) . The bus company website has changed recently , and the new timetable page is now <URL> If coming on foot from the city centre , your best be is to walk along Ul . kneza Branimira past the Graffiti wall , then turn onto Avenija Marina Drzica . You 'll see the bus station on your right , and the Airport bus goes from the first building you come to in the bus station , which is white and labelled with Croatian Airlines and Eurolines . Walk through the ticket office and out to where the bus goes from . Pay the driver on boarding . If coming by tram , take a 2 , 5 , 6 , 7 or 8 to Autobusni Kolodvor ( the bus station ) . Cross over to the bus station side , and turn right . Walk north ( towards the railway line ) to the end of the bus station , with the shops on your left . The very end part of the building is labelled with Croatian Airlines and Eurolines , and that 's the part you want . If you need to change trams to get there , be aware that the stops at Drziceva are all a long way apart , so it 's not a good place to change . Either get off there and walk ( it 's only a couple of minutes ) , or change at Olipska where the platforms are opposite . The airport buses do n't leave from the main part of the bus station , so if you 're in there you 'll need to exit down to the street , walk to the end of the building and enter the dedicated airport buses part there . It currently costs kn 30 one way , payable to the driver in cash on boarding . There are cash machines outside a few of the shops on the main road outside if you need them , and coming from the airport there 's a cash machine inside baggage reclaim , and others in the main airport building .
Since I got an answer to my inquiry to eurail/interrail and it is too long to post in a comment I will put it here as an answer : Thank you for your email to Eurail.Com Customer Service . Yes , as a rail passenger , you are entitled to several rights according to the European Union Law . You can find more information on the page of the European Commission : <URL> You can also find the European Union regulations on : <URL> Since the Eurail Pass entitles you to use the train in Europe , you are of course protected by the EU law when you will be traveling with your Eurail Pass . I believe this boils down to the same regulations and rules that was stated in the original question , but I did not have time to go through it all to make sure . However I do find the links provided by the eurail/interrail customer service to be a lot easier to read than the actual regulation texts , which is why I have posted them here . Also note that the first link also has maritime and air travel rights information .
It is very difficult to answer since there are hundreds or thousands skis resorts in the Alps . But to narrow down the potential candidates , I would focus on very small ski resorts in Austria . The reason is quite simple , smaller resorts are generally cheaper than big resorts and Austria is generally way cheaper than Switzerland , and cheaper ( at least concerning ski resorts ) than France . If had to recommend a single location , it would be <URL> in Vorarlberg , Austria . The first sentence of the homepage says that it is one of the cheapest ski resorts in all of Austria . This ski resort also offers a good opportunity called . This means you can pay for a ticket in the morning and then as soon as you 've had enough snowboarding you can give it back and then you will receive some money back . As a beginner this might be a good choice . Laterns is not the only ski resort that offer such tickets . Nowadays it is quite common in the Alps ( or at least Austrian Alps ) . A lot of ski resorts also offer perks if you 're a student or in military service . So do n't forget your student card if you have one .
<URL> ( I do n't know if this link is permanent -- just search for trains from Milano to Dijon ) . The train stops at Dijon-Ville . In fact only regional trains stop at Dijon-Porte-Neuve , only Dijon-Ville is on the line from Paris to Lyon , Switzerland and the Alps . Going from Milan to Basel via Dijon is rather roundabout . Unless you get a really good deal and want to save on a hotel night , I recommend taking an evening or morning train ( or even stopping on the way ) . If you leave Milano at 19:25 , you can be in Basel around midnight . If you need to leave later , you can take the last train to <URL> ( but since it 's a small town , check if there 's a hotel where you can arrive at 1am ) and from there get to Basel in the morning .
I do n't have any real inside in the tour business in Japan , I travelled there independently , but here are some thoughts : Being with a tour group does indeed speed up travelling in and between cities . You do n't have to find out which bus or train to take , no waiting for them . no need to look for a parking space . The tour bus picks you up and leaves . On the other hand , you lose all flexibility . I 've been to several places outside of Tokyo ( but not really the countryside ) and public transport was pretty good everywhere , so I am pretty sure you can get to places unless they are really remote . Do n't expect many people speaking English , but most would still be able to read a name of the place you want to go to in English , but having it written in Japanese would be better . I think Japanese are not very different from other people when it comes to tour groups . Yes many older and insecure people use tour groups but you also meet many young single Japanese girls or guys who travel independently and hate tour groups . Many Japanese people try to get out of the uniformity of the daily Japanese life . Even if their directions only get you to the next corner , they may help . Do you speak Japanese ? I doubt you can find a tour for Japanese people with a guide who speaks English . So unless you book a whole tour for foreigners from abroad , I think it 's better to do it independently .
<URL> : Any mileage not redeemed within 36 months of the date of accrual ( date of flight , start of hotel stay , time of car rental ) will expire at the end of that quarter ( e.g. miles expiring in August of any given year would expire at the end of September of that same year ) , failing other arrangements published in the Miles &amp; More communication media .
If you 're on international flight , staying less than 24 hours in airport , and are not leaving it , you do not need a transit visa . Look at <URL> .
There seems to be another way that would require you to hitch-hike for a part of the trip ( but you cross the border by yourself ) . Halifax , NS - St John , NB - bus ride Going with <URL> , it takes a bit more than 7h , with one morning and one afternoon bus ( leaving at 7am and 12pm ) . St John , NB - St Stephens , NB - hitch-hiking Here is the tricky part , going from St John to St Stephens , located near the border . The distance is a bit more than 100 km . I honestly do n't think it will be so hard to find a ride ( well unless you go with your family or carry a large volume ) , in Canada I heard it is all right ( and my little experience confirms this ) , and <URL> , the language might be the trickier part , so learn some French :) . You arrive in St Stephens , a border town , and you can literally cross the border by walking . As you would cross by yourself , you do n't take the risk of a driver refusing to cross with you . On the American side , the border town is Calais , ME . Calais , ME - Bangor , ME - bus ride Now , from Calais to Bangor , you can use the <URL> which runs one daily bus in the morning . It will take you less than 4h for this part . Bangor , ME - Boston , MA - bus ride Arrived in Bangor , you 've pretty much done the job . The buses to Boston leave unfortunately either very early morning ( 5am ) or late morning ( 11.30 am ) , so you will be forced to stay there . It takes less than 6h for this trip .
It would appear not , but there 's nothing stopping us from creating one . People can edit the answer as we find more . Airlines that ban the Knee Defender Air Canada <URL> American Airlines <URL> Continental Airlines <URL> Delta Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Qantas <URL> Southwest Airlines <URL> United Airlines <URL> Jetstar <URL> Virgin Australia <URL> ; <URL> WestJet <URL> Airlines that discourage but do n't ban the Knee Defender British Airways <URL> JetBlue Airways <URL> Airlines that allow the Knee Defender EasyJet <URL> Virgin Atlantic <URL> Airlines with seats that do not recline Allegiant Air <URL> Spirit <URL> Ryanair <URL>
They have <URL> that addresses this : 2.5 . Mileage expiry Any mileage not redeemed within 36 months of the date of accrual ( date of flight , start of hotel stay , time of car rental ) will expire at the end of that quarter ( e.g. miles expiring in August of any given year would expire at the end of September of that same year ) , failing other arrangements published in the Miles &amp; More communication media . Attention will be drawn in good time to the date and extent of the lapsed mileage in the Miles &amp; More account information or in the personal Internet mileage account . This is a harder policy than many other Star Alliance members follow . For example Air Canada Aeroplan miles last 7 years from the year you earned them , but if you have 12 months of no Aeroplan activity you can lose everything . You should consider these policies when choosing which loyalty program to put your miles in , since you can join any Star Alliance member and earn and redeem on your home airline .
One of the few ( or rather the only ) explanation I can find on the " Set number " is from <URL> Another number which appears on the train is the " set number " . This is displayed at each end of the train to identify its duty in the timetable . The number is set up by the crew preparing the train for service and it is retained by that train as long as it works that particular path in the timetable for that day . It provides a useful means of quickly identifying trains and is used whenever reference made to particular service trains . So long story short it 's a train number like <URL> basically identifying the route the train is running today including line and schedule , though if you feel like a project you can take a look at <URL> to figure it out . <URL>
According to <URL> : If your baggage is damaged , lost or delayed during an easyJet flight , you must advise a member of easyJet ground handling staff at the airport of arrival immediately . In the event of loss or damage to baggage the airline 's liability is normally limited to a maximum of 1,000 <URL> ( approximately # 820 ) . Essentially , it does n't matter whether your airline is low-cost or full-service . ( If I 'm not wrong ) They have minimum obligations for carriage that they must adhere to as declared in their terms and conditions . Baggage handling falls under the purview of airlines and that 's whom you must seek compensation from . In your case , you will have to contact EasyJet but they may argue that baggage damage was not notified to them at the airport , thus allowing them to claim they were not responsible for it . If you have travel insurance of some sort , then it could cover compensations . Alternatively , check if your credit/debit card has travel insurance included .
The circumstances that require a new ESTA are listed <URL> and include only : passport change name change gender change citizenship change something happens ( e.g. criminal conviction , overstay ) that might cause the loss of the VWP privilege and require you to get a visa instead . Otherwise the ESTA you applied for is good for 2 years regardless of how other information you included in the application changes .
Oh now this is my question :) If you like parks , there are the ' tourist ' ones in town - Hyde , Regents , St James and so on . But take the tube down to Richmond and walk up the hill to Richmond Park . Firstly you 'll get a great walk along the Thames on the way up , and then you 're in the biggest open air space in London . Originally a hunting ground for King Henry the 8th , I believe , he built a wall and kicked the peasants out . Fortunately today anyone can go in , and there are still 2 herds of deer - 300ish fallow and 300ish red , plus squirrels , foxes and more . It 's beautiful , and the view from Richmond Park to St Paul 's is so special that it 's protected by law ! For clubs , um ... Clapham Common has a great number of bars and so on around it which wo n't get the tourist crowd , but you may get a lot of Kiwis and Aussies who live in the area . For a market , try Borough Market - it 's near the London Bridge tube station , Borough High Street exit , open from Thursday to Saturdays in the mornings . Lots of great food , a little expensive perhaps , but you can actually do well by eating the free samples ;) One way we found to really get ' local ' Londoners was to catch the long tubes to the end of the line - Cockfosters , for example , has a fantastic pub called the Cock and Dragon , and you 're practically guaranteed not to find tourists there ! Epping is similar , but you may experience the music-stopping-and-locals-staring feeling as you walk through the door of the pub . London is huge , and so cosmopolitan that it 's hard to even define what is a Londoner these days ! But it 's a great city and there 's lots to find and explore .
end question
start question
How to use trekking clothes ?
That 's the kind of gear I 'd use when going to hike well into subzero temperatures . Attempting to hike in such a gear at +20 ° C , especially in humid air , you 'll not be comfortable at all . It 's a total overkill . Especially the pants . What I 'd use for such a hike : t-shirt , preferably non-cotton stay-dry kind ; soft shell fleece jacket ( Windstopper or equivalent ) waterproof , breathable jacket ( Gore-Tex or equivalent ) breathable hiking trousers ( not thermo insulated , either waterproof or quick drying ) waterproof , breathable hiking boots ( tall ones ) For sleeping at temperatures -5 ° C what you really need is not huge amount of clothes , but decent sleeping bag . With filling made either of goose down , or even better synthetic . You can find sleeping bags rated to as low as -30 ° C . As far as I know , in Cuzco you should n't expect torrential rains at that time of a year ( or much any rain at all ) . So rain poncho does n't seem necessary . Does n't weight much though , so you might take it just in case . Preferably the kind that also covers your backpack . Especially if your backpack is not waterproof .
Basically to be on the safe side , ask at each place you intend to use them . As the site you pointed out says , they may require a permit to use . <URL> also cites it as a concern : Any form of hobby that involves cameras , binoculars or telescopes may well be misunderstood by military or police officials if practiced anywhere near a government building , military site or airport . Of course , by misunderstood I mean they may arrest you , confiscate your equipment and wonder what it was you found so interesting about their military base . So , leave the bird watching or plane spotting for places where you 're less liable to look like you 're up to something dodgy basically . And the site <URL> says almost exactly the same thing : Hobbies that involve cameras and binoculars , such as bird watching and plane spotting , may be misunderstood - particularly near military sites , government buildings and airports . Long story short - it 's better to ask at your hotel , and at the ticket office or information center for every place you intend to use them . If you 're concerned , there are the built-in binoculars at the top , <URL> .
<URL> is the largest of its kind in the UK . This year it will take place at Herstmonceux Castle East Sussex , UK on the 24th , 25th and 26th August 2013 . Held annually since 1992 over the three days of the August Bank Holiday Weekend , England 's Medieval Festival at Herstmonceux Castle is Britain 's largest and most magnificant celebration of the colourful Middle Ages . Edit : Also of interest <URL> is now widely regarded as the largest medieval gathering of its kind in Europe , and attracts re-enactors , traders and entertainers , and visitors from all over the world . Its central attraction is a re-enactment of the Battle of Tewkesbury , on part of the site of the original 1471 battlefield . Many of the participants including wives and children live as a medieval army in authentic medieval encampments for the whole weekend . The event features a wide range of period entertainment , including music , dance and drama as well as a collection of fascinating characters from the past . This year the festivities will take place on the 13-14th July 2013 . See their <URL>
I 'll buy a Japan Rail Pass , but I did n't understand if I can use it on nearby subway stations such as Ningyocho , Kodenmacho and others . Is it possible ? No . These are part of the Tokyo Metro , which is not operated by JR , and thus the JR pass is not valid there . The nearest JR station is Shin-Nihombashi on the Sōbu line , but it 's a commuter line that goes only one stop into Tokyo to Toyko main station , where you could change to urban Chūō or Yamanote lines . The Yamanote line itself has the Kanda station a bit further , but that 's already a significant walking distance . is it possible to visit typical tourist places in Tokyo using the JR Pass ? There are some JR lines that are useful within Tokyo , namely the Yamanote and Chūō , and together they cover many of the main tourist attractions , at least if you 're prepared to walk a bit . But you 'll often take a lot longer than if you were willing to freely use all public transportation via the <URL> . Another factor is that with the JR pass , you can not use the normal entry/exit gates - you have to find one where there 's a JR employee and show it to them ( or climb over the gates and look like a criminal ) . So basically , relying only on a JR pass within Tokyo is possible but very inconvenient . Of course you can still use it to save some money when there 's a good connection to your target through a JR line , but that would be the case far more often if you chose a hotel near a JR station .
Yes , Iceland is closely associated with the EU and all EU citizens can go there with their ID card ( if they have one , of course ) . It 's also part of the Schengen area , which means there is no systematic border checks and it 's even possible you wo n't have to show your ID at all . Finally , Iceland is also a member of the <URL> , which means that Swedish citizens were already exempt from the passport requirement anyway , as mentioned on <URL> . Depending on airline policy and on the airport , you might still have to show an ID at some stage but your national ID card will be enough .
No . An F-1 visa is valid for study . You can only use it to enter the US when you are properly enrolled at an authorized institution and they have indicated this status in the <URL> database . When you arrive at the port of entry , the officer will check the database and you may well be denied entry . If your nationality is such that you need a visa to transit the United States , you 'll need to apply for a new visa .
In most border towns you can , further away not . Sometimes they might also give you small change back in CAD , or charge you a small fee for using USD . If you exchange the money in a bank you will get a much better rate . Try to pay with your Credit card whenever possible .
So I ended up going to the source , <URL> . They 've just <URL> , saying that YES , they are transferable , and provided a <URL> : The link is basically instructions on use of one of these certificates , and from those instructions it 's merely a code , so not bound to any particular passenger .
No . I am also registered with Uber in London and have successfully used it in Amsterdam , Cape Town , and other cities . It 's the same account , same process . Of course , you 'll be billed in local currency - and do n't forget you may have to pay roaming data fees on your phone contract .
I used to tie the zips of my backpack together with my hair , thinking that if notice the loose hair being broken my luggage would have been tampered with . On one occasion the hair , binding one zipper was broken , so I went to customs to express that I suspect somebody went through my stuff . There was nothing wrong with my luggage , but the custom officer also told me that in case something was found in my luggage , I would still be a prime suspect even after I reported it . So having a lock might not be waterproof against tampering . The answer by a very knowledgeable travel.se contributor might provide a better alternative then a locked suitcase , that is <URL> .
Being Dutch , I have never heard of such law . I also doubt there is a law that would cover this , I would take it as a try to intimidate you . But also as a ' please really , really do not do this . ' If caught out after you made the picture and before you had seen the sign , I would let them try to sue you . But if seeing the sign before you take the picture , do not take one . If the designs in the shop are unique , they have the right to protect their copy-right , but that would go for pictures of the clothing without it being worn . I would not let me be bullied into buying their clothing , but I would also not take photos of me wearing stock unless I have approval of shop staff . Added : Taking the photo is not breaking the copy-right laws , using the information from the photo might be . But that breaking of the copy-right laws can also happen after you have bought the item , much easier even . So I doubt the judge ( if it came to a court case ) would accept it as reason to be forced to buy the item . I am Dutch , I am not a lawyer but I am pretty much aware of customer rights .
According to <URL> , Visa Electron is accepted in South Korea in many ATMs ( make sure to choose the bank from the drop down menu ) . Also , According to <URL> Cirrus ATM cards are the most widely accepted in Korea .
Count the number of pieces you leave at the laundry shop in front of the laundry lady and have her write it down on a piece of paper . Then count the pieces you get back , again in front of her .
In his blog post <URL> , Tom Casady , former police chief of Lincoln , Nebraska , writes about the results of a quick host search he did in his city . Among the many search results , he found a known drug dealer , a registered sex offender , and someone who had recently threatened to shoot himself and was taken in by police . He concludes : So , if you 're going to couch surf , take advantage of the free [ state ] <URL> for background checks , email some of the references , do n't go it alone if you can help it , and bring your own sleeping bag : never know what 's been on that couch . No need to be paranoid , though . You ca n't live in a cocoon , and somehow the concept of people hosting travellers in their home is appealing to a guy who [ ... ] depended on the kindness of others to make his way for several years . Even though Mr. Casady is a man , I bet women can also rely on his advice while staying with or hosting other women . See also The Gift of Fear , by personal-safety expert Gavin de Becker , and its advice on informing and listening to your intuition . The book was a # 1 bestseller in the US . You can get it from <URL> or <URL> .
Here are some of the ' hacks ' that I 've used : It 's winter , there 's often a heater on , or heatpump , or fire . Try and hang the clothes near to ( but not on ) the heater . Turn them frequently - you do n't want them getting too hot or burnt . Use air - moving air . Hang in a doorway for the internal flow , or if possible , outside during the day . Beware to take them in before sunset though - it gets damp quickly again as it cools outdoors . Use sunlight . Move the clothes to a window or similar where light is shining on them for warmth . Move the clothes on a rack or item that keeps them aired ( ie the less surface of the clothes touching something else , the better ) . If desperate , a fan helps move air around the clothes . It also makes things feel colder though . Are you cooking something ? Keep your clothes near the warm oven for that electrical heat . Do you have a laptop/tablet ? Do n't do this for soaking wet clothes as you may risk damaging the gear , but I 've done this several times in the past - sit nearly-dry socks under my hot laptop , and by the time I 've checked email and Travel.Stackexchange I 've got warm and toasty socks ! Wear the clothes ? This one is debateable - I do n't risk it . Yes you can use your body heat to help dry out the clothing , but I 've been told it can cause the clothes to get a bit of a funky smell . I 've got no sense of smell so dare n't risk it - but apparently you can kill the smell with a bit of a vinegar mix in your next wash .
The short answer is no , as has been said . There are a few bus lines popping up . You can check them out at <URL> and <URL> . They typically take you between SF/LA and LA/LV and that 's about it .
US immigration does usually let family members join US citizens in the citizen line . This does not extend to friends . As always , there 's a possibility you 'll get away with it , but if not , the non-US citizen will be sent to the back of the other line . Source : I 'm a UK citizen with US citizen family . Depending on the terminal you enter , whether your friend has an ESTA and has visited the US before , they may be eligible to use the kiosks that allow quicker immigration now .
As far as I know Oyster card is only valid in London . They are trying to extend it to neighbouring towns ( I think at some point you will be able to use it on train services to get to some of the airports ) , but definitely it does n't work in Leeds . Note that if you have a contactless credit/debit card , you can use this one instead . There are daily caps on all travel in London which are the same as a daily ticket , and I think at least at the beginning there was a weekly cap . More details : <URL>
Getting hotel upgrades is indeed like getting flight upgrades -- the odds are low , and stay low even if you try to game the system , but occasionally you win . I 'm also assuming that you have no elite status with the hotel/chain , since that 's a whole different ballgame , although it is also by far the best way to get upgrades . First of all , it 's important to understand that there are " upgrades " and then there are upgrades . A slightly larger room or a room facing the park instead of the parking lot is a small upgrade and these are often handed out like candy , but putting you in an executive floor room with lounge access , buffet breakfast and complimentary minibar involves real additional cost to the hotel , and these " real " upgrades will be harder to score . You can usually tell the levels with careful reading of the room descriptions on the hotel website : eg . the <URL> has something like 20 room types , but " Superior " , " Deluxe " and " Premium " are all exactly the 32 sq. m. same room , just facing in different directions . The " Club " rooms are the same room again with lounge access , and it 's only " Executive Suite " ( 72 sq. m. ) and above that are genuinely different . So , here 's some ideas . Short stays are more likely to get upgrades . You might get the grand suite for a night if nobody 's using it , but you 're extremely unlikely to get it for a month . Ask nicely on check-in if you could have a room facing the Eiffel Tower ( or whatever ) . If it 's a small upgrade ( see above ) , you just might get it ; if it 's a big upgrade and they 've got a bunch free , you might be offered a discounted upgrade . When booking , request something restrictive but not obnoxious : eg . " high floor " or " away from elevators " . On check-in , ask if they can fulfill your request . If they ca n't find a standard room that fits , they just might bump you up . If something is genuinely broken in your room and you complain about it , you may well get shifted to a nicer room . I once ended up in the presidential suite because it was the only room they had left with functional internet ! ( Was n't a particularly nice hotel and I was staying with my boss on a business trip , but hey , first-world problems ... ) A high-risk , high-reward tactic is to simply check in late ; if all the standard rooms are gone , they 'll bump you up . Of course , if you check in too late , then all the rooms may be gone and you 'll probably end up at the Motel 6 instead ... and if you do get a nice room , it 's already late so you wo n't have much time to enjoy it !
I think you want an extension ticket , but see below . <URL> The idea is that you need to have one ticket that 's valid for your whole trip . Technically , on the journey out , you may step off the train at the last zone B station , validate the ticket , and step back onto the same train . But unless you know exactly where the validator is on the platform and position yourself accordingly , you 'll be stranded until the next train comes . On the return journey , you need to validate your single ticket at the start of the journey , and you 're supposed to step off and back on at the first zone B station . Technically , if a ticket inspector happens to step on at that point and realizes you did not have a ticket for the whole journey , the rules state that they should fine you . There is a different ticket , the <URL> ( Anschlussfahrschein ) , which is meant for use in combination with an ordinary A+B ticket to prolong one trip into zone C ( or start in zone C and continue through zone B and optionally A ) . This ticket is explicitly not allowed in combination with the A+B <URL> or with the A+B <URL> . I ca n't find a definitive reference regarding its validity in combination with a daily , weekly or longer ticket . The <URL> only explicitly excludes " WelcomeCards , CityTourCards , Schulklassen-Tickets und FamilienPass-Monatskarten " , so I surmise that it is valid in combination with other passes , but please confirm with a ticket office first ( and report back ! ) .
end question
start question
What is the average temperature in Kochi during mid-October ?
Apparently during October , the weather <URL> : Temperature varies from 22 to 31 ° C. October has intermittent post monsoon showers . The climate is moderate and good for outings .
Maui Weather Is Very Localized Weather on Maui is very localized , so the average temperature does n't really tell the whole story . Also , the rain tends to fall all at once like a flash food , so the quantity of rain is n't that relevant except for the windward shore ( i.e. Hana ) where it rains all the time . Key Aspects Determining the Weather You Will Experience on Maui In my experience here 's what you need to know about weather for Maui : The weather on the windward shore ( i.e. Hana and the road to it ) is wet and not hot . Unless you stay in Hana you can comfortably drive to most of the island on a day-trip basis , particularly if you stay in Kihei area . There is good weather ( sunshine , little wind , warm temperature ) somewhere on the island almost every day . It is relatively common for any one part of the island to have sort of lousy weather ( by tropical standards ) for a week at a time . Your Strategy Will Determine Your Odds of Experiencing Good Weather Assuming you 're not staying in Hana , you 've got two basic strategies that will determine the weather that you experience . Strategy 1 : You rent a car and drive to wherever the weather is good every day . Likely Outcome : You 'll enjoy a hot beach every day -- you just wo n't know which one until the day of . Worst Case : You 'll have one or two days of bad weather . Strategy 2 : You stay in one place all day every day . Likely outcome : You 'll have a few good and a few bad weather days . Worst Case : The weather is miserable for your entire stay . Recommended Clothing Even for those who are cold most of the time , and even when it 's raining , it is rare that long sleeves are required . ( The one exception is at elevation on Haleakala -- temperatures decline all the way to freezing as you reach the top the crater . ) My wife and I have been on several multi week trips to maui at all times of the year and have never needed more long pants than those worn on the plane . We normally wear short sleeves and swim gear ( i.e. bikini or board shorts ) Then we use cotton hoodies and hats or <URL> to regulate body temperature up , or go shirtless and into the water to regulate down . Sun Exposure Maui is pretty close to the equator which has two effects : the peak midday sun is very high and intense the days are fairly short so the peak is also short In other words , Hawaii has an extreme peak of UV exposure in the middle of the day . That peak is difficult to manage even with sunscreen , hats , and sleeves ; particularly if you are hard-starting a tan . This is demonstrated by the many tourists you 'll see with sunburns on the top side of their bodies . If you stay in the shade between 11a and 2p you 'll have a much lower likelihood of burning . Water Temperature The ocean water often feels cold when you get in , this is because your skin temperature is typically high in Maui , so <URL> when you first get in . Once you are in the water , it is warm enough to stay indefinitely unless you are completely sedentary . Many swimming pools in Maui are not heated and seem to be noticeably colder than the ocean . I usually ca n't stay in these unheated pools indefinitely because they are too cold .
There are a lot of options . It really depends on your preference , but my list of cities you can always visit no matter what season : Amsterdam ( the Netherlands ) Maastricht ( the Netherlands ) Delft ( the Netherlands ) Brugge ( Bruges ) ( Belgium ) Monschau ( Germany ) Edinburgh ( UK ) Grenada ( Spain ) Barcelona ( Spain ) Funchal ( Portugal )
According to <URL> , this is either <URL> line ( 3315 km ) , closely followed by Paris-Moscow ( 3217 km ) . I would have thought that the Venice Simplon Express on the route <URL> or the <URL> route would be a good candidate too , but I ca n't really find the distances . A google maps route plan using a car suggest that both are shorter than the above , but obviously this will depend on the exact route taken .
According to the <URL> , the park is closed from mid-September to April and the Christmas market was discontinued in 2009 . The <URL> supports this - it shows the park as open every day in August , only Thrusday to Sunday in September , and only concert events ( which are held on the premises while the rest of the park is closed ) afterwards .
The airport itself is in the middle of nowhere , I do n't think there is any walkable attraction around but the public transport connections are very good . If you did not plan to go there during the next days and did not have to worry about a small kid , taking the train to the center of Amsterdam would be the obvious choice . I do n't know Hoofddorp itself but note that the area was a lake until the 19th century . The city was created from scratch after the land was reclaimed so you should not expect a typical historical Dutch town ( but that might be interesting in itself ) . The pumping stations and the countryside in the vicinity ( <URL> and the area around Buitenkaag and the <URL> ) are definitely worth a visit if you are interested in the history of the landscape but they are not so easily reachable and you would need more time than an evening to go there . As far as restaurants are concerned , iens.nl is probably the most popular website in the Netherlands . <URL>
Which running event would that be ? I looked at several event calendars for Prague , and they all list only a marathon on May 11th . In any case , I would n't be concerned ; you 're in walking distance of lots of sights , and the metro should n't be affected by such events anyway .
DM was open at Berlin Südkreuz , 25th December Opening hours was : 13:00 - 18:00 It is also open today and all holiday days , in case anyone needs it .
I can think of a few reasons : Verifying the identity of Wi-fi users , in case a court subpoena comes in requesting information about a certain user . It 's not a bullet-proof method ( many countries offer anonymous sim-cards ) , but it 's probably good enough in most cases . Some countries may also ban fully anonymous Wi-fi ( such as Germany or Turkey ) . Making sure they can cut-off users who use too much traffic or time ( some free connections are limited to 15/30/60 minutes ) . It becomes harder to reconnect once banned since changing your MAC address is not sufficient . Denying access to long-term users . It 's often possible for local residents to connect to major Wi-fi hubs close by . Maintaining accurate statistics on the number of users/their country of origin/etc . Showing targeted advertisements based on your phone number . Having a database of phone numbers for future text advertisements/sales calls/etc . It 's probably hidden away somewhere in the long " Terms and Conditions " that nobody reads .
New Years day is a <URL> . So yes , many places will be closed . Indeed , many shops stay closed until the 6th , with winter sales starting again on the 7th of January . This is reflected in a post on <URL> : Restaraunt wise we were amazed at how many closed over New Year . I expected some would be closed on the 1st but some were closed from the 31st till the 6th ! We did struggle to find a place to eat a couple of times and ended up having to go to one of the numerous self service restaurants which are fine but not exactly what we were looking for on holiday . and this recommendation on the same page : I live in Milan and I personally do not reccomend to spend the new year in the city . Basically there is nothing to do . Milan people usually go out of the city for new year 's eve : to ski , on the lake , in the coutryside , to visit other cities . The situation is different in the other Italian cities , like Rome or Florence . Of course many restaurant and clubs are closed , maybe is the worste day to see Milan . So long story short ( unless you have specific sites in mind , in which case I 'd check their individual websites ) , in general a lot of stuff is closed during this holiday period .
There are different ways to compare price levels between countries . The <URL> ( which , in this form , is actually more a purchasing power parity index ; see <URL> ) can be pretty good : Consumer Price Excl . Rent Index ( CPI ) is relative indicator of consumer goods price , including groceries , restaurants , transportation and utilities . CPI Index does n't include accomodation expenses such as rent or mortgage . If city has CPI index of 120 , it means Numbeo estimates it is 20 % more expensive than New York ( excluding rent ) . The only thing that a typical traveller wo n't need are utilities ( <URL> , you 'll be interested in the items that have > 0 in the first column ) , though if utility cost is high , hotel costs are likely to be high as well . There 's also a specific restaurant index on the site linked above . There 's one caveat , though : If there is very little domestic tourism in a country , the costs of " touristy " goods and activities will most likely be de-coupled from the cost of everyday living , i.e. you ' r going to pay more than you 'd expect ) . The inverse ( i.e. you pay less than you 'd expect ) can happen after bad publicity - shortly after a terrorist attack or a natural disaster , prices are usually very low , since there will be many tourists who cancel their plans . In addition to such a generalized index , you may also want to sample specific comparable goods , for example the cost for a night at an international chain hotel , or the <URL> , if you 're into that kind of thing .
This is less than an answer , but more than a comment ... A large percentage of your travel budget will be spent on the cruise itself , given that it includes lodging , food , and transportation . As it appears you do n't have your heart set on seeing a particular part of the Caribbean , the next important question is : what is your " cruising style " ? I 've been on three cruise lines : Holland America , Royal Caribbean , and Norwegian . I 'd go on another cruise in a heartbeat on one of them -- because it fits the sort of traveling my husband and I like to do . If you like to dress up and eat high-end food , the cruise line you want is n't the one that caters to honeymooners on a tight budget or to families with small kids . If you like things to be super-flexible , you do n't want the cruise line that assigns you a nightly dining reservation at their one restaurant . And so on ... If you like upscale , be aware that all cruise lines put their best efforts into their longer cruises . I 've been on cruises ranging from 4-14 nights , and the experience ( and amenities ! ) pretty closely tracked with the trip length . Once you 've figured out what cruise line and trip length work for you , there are likely to only be a few options left . Take whichever of them works best -- there really are no bad Caribbean trips ( so long as the weather cooperates , of course ) .
If you want to experience perpetual summer , starting in Paris in October and then going to eastern Europe is not the best of ideas . And , depending on where in Turkey you plan to go , winters can get quite cold . Parts of Ethiopia have perpetual cold nights , any time of the year . Northern Iran can be very cold in winter . Furthermore , based on your description , you seem to plan on getting to South America in the middle of the year , which is the southern hemisphere 's winter . South American winter ai n't comparable to , say , central Asia 's , but particularly the south ( of South America ) can get very cold . And plenty of the beach resorts on the continent 's west coast wo n't be open for swimming . If , on the other hand , your only option is to go to the US from Paris , you 'd head into North American winter , which can also be pretty harsh . So , if you are flexible in your journey , but not in your dates , and assuming you will be traveling for about a year , I 'd say your best bet would be something like ... Paris - South America - North America ( at the start of spring ) - Asia - Middle East ( at the start of autumn ) - Europe .
The best strategy is to go as far away as possible from tourist areas to exchange money . Currency Exchange at the airport is generally the worst , followed money changers in tourist areas . Then start to look at money changers in London 's financial district , ie the City . Generally , they will be competing with other money changers and making their money on volume . Also , people in the City will know what the rate should be . You are also very unlikely to be ripped off . The City is also safer if you are carrying large amounts of cash . ( Not applicable to you , but in general it 's good to know ) . The really good deals are via Corporate money changing but you are unlikely to be able to setup an account unless you have a business . Look around at lunch time and see which money changers have a queue . These are the ones to go to . I tend to use www.cityforex.co.uk for this reason . In general , this guide can be used for other countries / cities .
Some things do have a kind of break during the summer ( one that comes to mind are the opera houses but is n't it true of opera houses everywhere ? ) but shops will have normal opening hours . Cafe are definitely open , I do n't think libraries have limited hours , do n't know about co-working spaces . Some offices might be a little less busy but it 's a large city with many tourists so it 's not like it 's closing down in the summer like a ski resort . The crowd might be a bit different but the streets certainly are n't empty . On the other hand , there are a number of summer-only things to enjoy in Berlin : beer gardens , outdoor cinemas , beach bars on the Spree , floating swimming pool , al fresco dining , biking and other activities in the lakes and parks around the city , etc. so it 's definitely worth experiencing in this season as well .
I have direct experience with this ; not actually in flight thank goodness , but in transit . My daughter was born prematurely in Shanghai last year during a short layover between Paris and Auckland . My wife and I only had limited 48-hour transit visas for China and our flight was due to depart about 10 hours after she was admitted to hospital at the beginning of labour . It 's a long story , so I 'll focus on the visa parts and summarise . I ( since my wife was in hospital at this point ) got proper Chinese visas in our passports so that we could remain in China legally ( this took several visits to the Chinese Exit-Entry Bureau ( EEB ) ) . After my daughter was born , we obtained an Emergency Travel Document ( ETD ) from the New Zealand Consulate in Shanghai . We got a Chinese visa for my daughter to put in her ETD , so that she would be permitted to leave China when she was ready ( again , more EEB visits ) . The ETD allowed us to enter New Zealand ( nearly two months later ) and admit her to the NICU in Auckland ( as , I discovered later , a permanent resident and not a citizen , but that qualified her for fully funded care ) . We applied for NZ citizenship for her recently so she would now have the same status as if she were born here in NZ . Since she was born prematurely , she could not fly straight away and had to remain in a heated incubator with continuous medical care . If a full-term baby were born mid-flight or in transit , theoretically they could travel straight away but you would still probably have to modify travel plans just to sort out the paperwork .
I went straight to Wikipedia for this . Their article <URL> states : David is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture created between 1501 and 1504 , by the Italian artist Michelangelo . It is a 5.17-metre ( 17.0 ft ) marble statue of a standing male nude . The statue represents the Biblical hero David , a favoured subject in the art of Florence . Originally commissioned as one of a series of statues of prophets to be positioned along the roofline of the east end of Florence Cathedral , the statue was instead placed in a public square , outside the Palazzo della Signoria , the seat of civic government in Florence , where it was unveiled on 8 September 1504 . Because of the nature of the hero that it represented , it soon came to symbolize the defense of civil liberties embodied in the Florentine Republic , an independent city-state threatened on all sides by more powerful rival states and by the hegemony of the Medici family . The eyes of David , with a warning glare , were turned towards Rome . The statue was moved to the Accademia Gallery in Florence in 1873 , and later replaced at the original location by a replica . So although you could see a replica at the Florence Cathedral , the real deal is currently at the Accademia Gallery , where it has stood since 1873 .
I believe that the oldest ones in service right now are on the <URL> , which is part of the South West Trains franchise . Not to be confused with the <URL> , the Island Line is a regular part of the UK rail network run as normal services . Because of the low ceiling of the Ryde Tunnel , the Island Line has a much smaller loading gauge than the rest of the UK mainline rail network , so has to use different trains . Today , those are <URL> , which are <URL> ! As explained in the <URL> The stock is around 75 years old , making it the oldest type in Great Britain to remain in regular service And they look like this , in their current ( returned to historic ) colour scheme :
One of the steps of preparing the cabin for landing is checking that all passengers are seated and buckled up , no passengers are using the toilets and toilets are locked ( it can be [ un ] locked from outside ) . The reasons behind checking the toilets for passengers during landings and takeoffs are related to both safety and security . The safety related reasons are obvious , landings can be hard and you sitting in the toilet can be dangerous . Security related reasons are also obvious , the aircraft is closer to the land and most likely over a city , which make the sabotage plans have bigger effects . What will the crew do The crew will knock on the door , and ask you to come out . They can also unlock the door from outside and open it . They can remove the whole door easily if you were to keep locking it from inside ( lavatory doors are equipped for this ) . The crew will also inform the captain about the situation , depending on the crew judgment , they can call security upon arrival , or call the onboard air marshal . What should you do DO NOT resist by any means , not verbally and not physically . If they ask you what are you doing , tell them the reason clearly , do not say vague stuff like " I do not feel well " , just say it clearly , something like " I have diarrhea " . If they want to open the door to make sure , open it for them , if they try to open the door from outside , do not resist it . Most likely they will take a quick peek and close the door . Once they are sure you are simply doing nothing wrong , they wo n't escalate it . Remember , the cabin crew will deliver the message to the captain depending on the first impression they get , that impression can be a threat impression , or a a guy with bad stomach impression . The captain will react according to the first call since it is a landing which is considered a critical phase in the airlines business , the reaction can be as extreme as declaring an emergency landing , or as simple as " tell the guy to hang on to something " . Finally , the reaction will be different from one airline to another , country to another , crew to another . In some countries I would expect the reaction to be extreme in the name of security , while in some others ( like in Asia ) the crew might be more understanding . In any case , the crew are humans , and they do understand human needs .
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
end question
start question
Do seasonal flights from Trondheim to Edinburgh , London , or any other part of the UK exist ?
<URL> - the route map is a pain to work with but if you choose the normal booking form , then you 'll see the list of destinations they fly to from Trondheim . Additionally , if you set SkyScanner to search for flights from Trondheim to ' United Kingdom ' for month December 2011 , you 'll find a list of airlines that operate connecting flights ( mostly via Oslo ) to London airports as well as Edinburgh . For TRD to EDI , these are : SAS , Norwegian , KLM , Lufthansa . Your mileage may vary on whether you want to a direct flight from Trondheim to London Gatwick , or rather take a connecting flight that lands at Edinburgh .
There are two bus routes than run on Hewletts Rd which is pretty close to the airport : <URL> and <URL> . For routes , fares and timetables follow the links . Downtown and the beach are not that far from the airport , so unless you have lots of luggage you could also just walk .
It 's called a " ligne de dissuasion " ( literally " deterrence line " ) . The idea is to indicate that it 's too late to switch from the leftmost lane to the exit . But it 's not strictly forbidden to cross the line , especially in the other direction ( from the rightmost lane to the leftmost lane ) , e.g. to overtake or make some space for someone getting on the motorway . According to <URL> using a straight line for that purpose is deemed " too limiting " ( " trop contraignant " ) and reserved for special situations , when the exit is " particularly difficult " . German motorways have <URL> to convey the same idea . In France , the same markings are also used on country roads , when overtaking is not strictly forbidden but should only be done for particularly slow vehicles . In both cases , it means more-or-less the same thing : Crossing the line is not forbidden but you are encouraged not to do it if you can avoid it .
* ( first of all , I only recommend this if you 're happy to quickly selectively skip around the top attractions in a museum before moving on to the next one . Each one of the 5 museums you 've mentioned is huge , with enough for two or more full days ' visits by someone very interested , and a full day each for someone moderately interested ) * If you really do n't mind skipping to see the best stuff and then heading on , after your very busy day in South Kensington as DJClayworth suggests , you could : <URL> early in the morning , selectively walk around the bits you 're most interested in Either walk ( 20 mins , not much to see ) or get a bus ( any bus ) down High Holborn to St Paul 's Take a quick look at St Paul 's Cathedral while you 're there , it 's pretty spectacular , but probably do n't go in today ... Continue with a short 10 minute walk south along the Millenium Bridge ( pedestrians-only , good views of the river ) ... ... which takes you right to the door of the Tate Modern . It also works going the other way , Tate first ; it 's a question of where you want to be in the evening . The British Museum and Tate Modern are n't as close to each other as the South Kensington museums , but they 're still pretty close and it 's rather nice that the route between them can go via St Paul 's and the Millenium Bridge without really adding any time .
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
Edit : on closer inspection ( thanks Krist van Besien for the seat61 link ) it seems that sadly , the only practical options really are coach with ID or Eurolines ( cheap , # 20 - # 50ish depending on advance booking , but 5hr + ) , or Eurostar . Train > Ferry > Train Many possible routes , here 's the fastest : High speed train from St Pancreas to Dover : <URL> , hourly ( plus other slower options ) P&amp;O Ferry foot passenger from Dover to Calais : <URL> , hourly ( other operators have 1:30 and 2hr ferries , not all allow foot passengers ) Train from Calais to Lille : <URL> , every half hour ( by road from <URL> ) So that 's 4 hours plus interchange time , costing around # 85 , Central London > Lille , prices seemingly not dependent on advance booking . Edit : The interchange times are horrible : the ferry operators have some savage policies that really slow this down . 45 minutes for foot passengers to check-in ( compared to just 30 minutes for vehicles ) , plus infrequent shuttle buses between ports and stations at both sides that do n't seem to match up with either the train or ferry timetables . <URL> at both Dover and Calais for UK to France train-ferry-train journeys , pushing the total to potentially 6 hours . Unless these policies change , sadly this option is more expensive , complicated and slow than a coach . There might be combined " train and ferry " deals out there that lower the overall price and help you find fast connections , but I could n't find any clear info . There are " rail and sail " tickets to Ireland and the Netherlands , but not to France . <URL> , but these seems to have been dropped - apparently for a while it was telephone-booking only , then even call centre staff stopped selling it . Train > Coach > Train Two fatal problems here : <URL> it does n't seem to be faster than ferry . They mostly take the coach by ferry anyway ( total 2 hours ish ) , and in the rare cases when they do n't ( which do n't stop anywhere in the UK except London except on the return journey ) , it takes about an hour and a half to get from Calais to Folkestone ( near Dover ) , so is barely faster . Despite driving through Dover and Folkestone/Canterbury , neither Eurolines nor ID 's online booking tools allow you to book from these towns . Seems they do n't stop there . They want you to get a coach from Dover to London , then another coach back to Dover on to Calais ...
Those spots are called ' Liftershalte ' in Dutch , Wikipedia has a list : <URL> Do n't expect too much there are only 6 of those , it 's a bit of a gimmick more then anything else .
<URL> shows that SCAT Airlines flies from MCX to Aktau , Kazakhstan , which technically is in Asia ( despite being only 300 km away , it 's on the other side of the Caspian Sea ) . These flights did n't seem to show up on Kayak , but it may be that SCAT does n't sell tickets through Kayak . All the other flights listed are within Russia .
I am curious , though , if a US citizen could potentially * be prosecuted upon returning home for " breaking US laws while on foreign soil " . Yes . The U.S. maintains embargoes against <URL> . Many of these include travel restrictions . The U.S. government generally <URL> that U.S. citizens are liable for taxes , regardless of where they live . Many countries have tax treaties with the U.S. that in some cases reduces or eliminates this burden , but in general , if you are a U.S. citizen and you make enough money in a foreign country , the U.S. government will expect you to pay U.S. taxes . ( Here 's a Wall Street Journal blog entry on the subject : " <URL> " ) It is against U.S. law ( the <URL> ) to bribe foreign officials . I would also guess that the U.S. sometimes has jurisdiction in foreign countries . Obvious examples would be military bases and embassies , but perhaps also in matters pertaining to U.S.-registered ships and aircraft ( ?? ) . References <URL>
I see you have a high Stack Overflow reputation . Have you considered <URL> , with <URL> ? Bletchley Park was the centre of British code breaking in WWII ( I believe quite a lot happened at Stanmore , but that 's not so sexy ) . Over in the museum of computing is a reconstruction of a Colossus , used to break German Lorenz codes ( more complicated and significant than the Enigma ) . Probably nothing like the computer museum in Mountain View , but worth a look . Bletchley Park is just a short walk from Bletchley train station , with a decent service into London ( even a magic hourly service to Clapham Junction and Croydon ) . -- Also for nerdy day trips , there is the crowd-sourced , google maps-mashup and generally buzzword 2.0-compliant <URL> .
You should be looking for accommodation that is explicitly listed for short stays . The majority of " regular " German flats-for-rent come unfurnished and you will have a hard time convincing the landlord to rent it to you when there are other people interested in lending it for > = 12 months . That is especially true if you do not have a residence permit . Also , rules such as that the walls need to be freshly painted when moving out are by no means uncommon . Consider looking for places that are listed as vacation rentals . Your favorite search engine should find you some sites to search for them . AirBnB may also be an option ( despite the fact that the legal situation for people offering accommodation within Germany on AirBnB is a bit tricky ) .
Right now , driving time on google maps ( taking traffic into account is 44 minutes ) . Plus time to get out to the taxi rank , get a taxi and all that , say 50 minutes . However you 're hitting the mid-morning traffic , which is awful in London . When you get into Paddington , check the tube boards and see what 's running . If the Jubilee is running , then do as you 've suggested and take the Bakerloo and switch to Jubilee . Switch at Baker St , and take the Jubilee right through to Canning Town . From there you can take the DLR direct to the airport . I still would n't trust the cabs . If the Jubilee line is down , take the District line to Notting Hill , switch to Central , and head down to Bank . Then change to DLR and that 'll also take you directly to the airport . If you 're really lucky as you 're going down the stairs into the tube at Paddington , look at the departure boards and see if any are leaving in about a minute - that would give you an indication of a couple of minutes of time saving . Bear in mind you can reach the Bakerloo platform easily , but the District to Notting Hill requires a few stairs and is on the far side of the track , which could take time if you 're using a wheeled suitcase . Good luck ! Let us know if you make it .
SNCF <URL> runs <URL> <URL> between Grenoble and Valence ; the trip takes a little over an hour and the trains run approximately hourly . There are also buses , but they go to Valence TGV far outside the city ; you then have to take another bus into the city . Due to the strike , there is <URL> . At the moment few of the trains are announced to be running but there will be substitution buses for some of the services continuing to Valence-Ville after Valence-TGV . So you can probably make your trip ( except if you were going to take one of the evening services ) , but allow for some delay . Grenoble and Valence are in the same région but in different département and have a train connection . In such cases , it 's rare to have non-SNCF buses . I do n't have authoritative knowledge of this region , but the <URL> does n't list any likely-looking bus lines , nor do any of the département-area sites for Isère and Drôme . While it 's possible that a combination of shorter-hop buses could get you from here to there , it 's likely to end up taking all day ( many of these buses may have no midday service , and they often would n't wait for connections ) -- even if a connection exists in theory , there 'd be a risk that you 'd have to hitch-hike some of the way ( which , incidentally , is a valid option if you are n't in a hurry ) . <URL> only mentions the train and the bus via Valence TGV ( granted , I do n't know how good their coverage of regional buses is ) . So take the train or the bustitution .
Assuming you are flying on a regular scheduled flight ( clearly , you are ) , it is always included in the final price of the ticket . It is paid for by the operator ( i.e. the airline ) . Source : <URL> .
As with everything else in China - if you go to a place that is opened for tourists , be prepared to see a lot of them . You can usually avoid the hordes by going on a weekday ( as opposed to weekend ) , avoiding national holidays , going early in the morning and picking a place that is less-known ( pick # 3 , # 4 , ... place as opposed to # 1 , # 2 place ) . That being said , the great wall is a very popular destination and the virgin places are harder to find . But - being that long ( 6500km ? ) - there is logically quite a lot of choice if you 're looking for a more unique experience than the " Disneyland " you see at Badaling or Mutianyu . Here are a few options : Go to Jinshanling . Although a tourist destination as well , it is less crowded . Also , you can keep walking on the wall for very long - until you reach unrestored sections , where you are practically alone . You can get there in quite a few ways : Easiest is : Get to Miyun ( by public bus from Dongzhimen ) , then get a minubus to Jinshanling for 200-300 RMB ( need to bargain ) . Very good if you are many people , because the 200-300 gets divided and it turns out pretty cheap actually . Take a train from Beijing to Gubeikou ( for example train 6453 from Beijing North at 06:38 arrives in Gubeikou at 10:50 ) and then a minubus . Here is the list of all trains that go through Gubeikou <URL> - be aware that Gubeikou is not listed in the official timetable , and you might not even be able to buy tickets for Gubeikou directly , but trains do stop there and you can buy tickets for the next station - Luanping - and just hop off at Gubeikou . I returned from Gubeikou to Beijing by train once and even the staff at the train station insisted that the train does n't stop - but I insisted to wait anyway , and the train stopped indeed . Take a bus from Sihui long distance bus station ( which is just south of Sihui subway station ) . I went this way once . Was planning to go to Gubeikou , but the driver insisted that it 's not on the way ( even if it was listed in the timetable ) . Turns out he wanted to take the expressway , which was a bit of a detour from Gubeikou indeed , but he let me get off very close to Jinshanling . Go to Jiankou . Probably one of the most breathtaking sections - highly favored by photographers . But be prepared for some serious ( and dangerous ) hiking on the crumbled wall . I only went there by car , so I do n't know about other options - but seems you can get there by bus : <URL> . Go by yourself to any other section - never mind if it has a name or not , it 's opened to tourists or not . I highly recommend you this book : <URL> . It lists plenty of locations on the great wall and detailed instructions on how to get there . As for the second question : You are allowed to walk on the sections opened to the tourists . Besides that - walking or camping on the wall is technically illegal , but you will probably have no problem ( worst case you get a fine ) . And hey , camping on the great wall is awesome !
The problem is that flight paths change quite often depending on prevailing winds , air traffic and weather patterns . So there 's not always one exact flight path that you can rely on . However , if you want to see where a plane is at any given time and what path it took , I use <URL> , which is remarkably close visually to the air traffic radar screens we used to use when I did ATC software development .
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
Most UK Visitor in Transit visas are <URL> . Single entry transit visas are rare . But you should ensure that you provide your complete itinerary when you apply for the visa .
As you are bringing a cycle and panniers , etc , you may find flying to be the cheapest and most convenient . Because Thailand is a popular destination for European tourists there are usually fare deals being offered . But there is no etched in stone cheapest routing , the fares vary from day to day and so you need to sit down and do some searching on the internet AND check the Sunday travel sections . There are a myriad of routings , direct Europe to BKK flights , connecting via the Middle East , connecting via Russia or China , connecting via South Asia . While Bangkok is the main airport to check , you might also look at Phuket , Kuala Lumpur as well for the long haul destination . Cities in Laos have very few international connectors . And do n't use maps you bought at home to guide your cycling , pick up some maps from ThinkNet when you get here . Ca n't begin to count the number of self-contained riders I have encountered riding up the six lane highways because that is all their international maps shows , while there is a beautiful two lane rural highway paralleling just 1 kilometer over .
As a EU citizen , you are entitled to visa free entry throughout the EU . You need proof that you are an EU citizen , and the easiest way to provide this is with your passport . Furthermore , as a UK citizen , you enjoy <URL> - not including those in the EU . It is safe to say , you enjoy a great deal of freedom of movement even outside the EU .
end question
start question
Hiking the Pacific Crest Trail from San Francisco to Canada in 3 months ?
This will most depend on your own pace , so this is hard to predict . However , <URL> we can find that the PCT association recommends 6 to 8 months for the entire trail . Starting near San Francisco ( at Lake Tahoe , still hundreds of kilometres from San Francisco ? ) , you seem to be able to start near the <URL> , which starts at mile 1092 , out of the total 2659 mi ( 4279km ) . Therefore a quick , absolutely imprecise computation ( ( 2659-1092 ) / 2659x6-8 months ) gives us an order of magnitude of 4 to 6 months . This is obviously a very rough estimate and if you are ready for this commitment , you know what daily distance you can achieve . Achieving the 1600 miles in less than 90 days means an average of 18 miles a day , without rest days and without refill stops . This is certainly doable for an experienced hiker , but if your time frame is constrained , you should probably find easily accessible trail heads for a shorter section of the trail .
I have n't heard or come across a rule which requires you have six months or more validity on a US visa to be allowed in . <URL> : The visa validity is the length of time you are permitted to travel to a port-of-entry in the U.S. ... Additionally , the visa expiration date shown on your visa does not reflect how long you are authorized to stay within the U.S. Entry and the length of authorized stay within the U.S. are determined by the Customs and Border Protection ( CBP ) Officer at the port-of-entry each time you travel . What I believe you are talking about is the minimum validity of your passport that is required . <URL> : I understand that my passport needs to be valid for at least six months ; is this correct ? The requirement that a passport is valid for travel for six months beyond the holder 's stay in the United States is waived for certain nationalities . <URL> . Which means that if your country is listed among the ones in the PDF document , having less than six months validity of your passport will not be an issue . Additionally , <URL> ( although this might be specific to if you 're entering under the visa waiver programme ) but <URL> , and will only limit your stay period to whatever date your passport expires . However , <URL> implies you do need to get your passport renewed if it will be valid for less than six months from the time you enter . Please obtain a new passport before your interview if : Your passport is going to expire in less than 6 months after the time you enter the United States . Your situation , then , will vary depending on what residency status you hold in a country as well as your citizenship .
In 2016 , the cabins in that area will open on June 23 , according to the Hemavan Tourist Office : Hi David , They open a few days later that month , the 23 of june so if you can wait a few more days it is not a bad idea . Before that it can still be a lot of snow and/or very wet in the terrain so we recommend people to walk after midsummer , usually it is better conditions then . Best regards / Med vänlig hälsning Further north ( Abisko to Kebnekaise ) , the cabins actually open a few days earlier : The huts [ near Abisko ] open on June 17th . Temperatures have been really high the last weeks so chances are that the trail will be snow-free even in higher altitudes by the time the huts open . However , I would recommend contacting fjallbokning@stfturist.se for more information .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
Your originating airline will be the one that checks to make sure you are leaving Thailand before your entry permission ends . They may not let you board if you can not document that you are leaving Thailand within 30 days of your arrival . And the only true proof of this is a departing airline ticket to a neighboring or home country . Train tickets and bus tickets are not legal proof , but maybe accepted ( then again may not be ) by the agent . Thai Immigration rarely checks this aspect , but they do have the right to , and I have personally witnessed them asking people to prove such . So not having proof is a double crap shoot . Best bet is to buy an airline ticket to a neighboring country that leaves before your 30 days are up . Either a dirt cheap throw away airfare ( Air Asia has a sale going on right now ) or an expensive fully refundable airfare . Then you can leave your flight home as you originally planned . You can also apply for a tourist visa in advance , which would give you 60 days entry and possibility for a 30 day extension . While this still requires proof of exit , airlines tend to overlook the outbound rule when boarding ( but not 100 % guaranteed , as I had to talk my way on once with a Non-Imm visa for a longer stay ) . You have to weigh costs of the Visa vs cost for a cheap airfare .
The Train looks to be quite a good bet to me . It looks like Kingston is on the main Montreal-Toronto line , for which <URL> . I just asked <URL> for details for a random weekday in about a fortnight 's time . There are 10 trains per day , a web special advanced purchase tickets start at $ 56 ( but are mostly sold out for 2 weeks time , so book early ! ) . Normal tickets are $ 65 - $ 89 , depending on how far in advance you book and how much flexibility you need . Oh , and if you do take the train , try to sit on the left hand side as you head towards Toronto - you get some stunning views out across the rivers and lakes from that side !
A lot of what you need you can just get in the grocery store - rice , pasta , dried potatoes ( either mashed or slices for " au gratin ) , sausage like pepperoni and salami that specifically does n't need refrigeration , dried fruit and nuts , instant hot cereal ( oatmeal , cream of wheat etc ) , dried legumes ( especially lentils which do n't need soaking ) jam , honey , and peanut butter will take care of a lot of your needs . You 'll want to put things into different packaging so they can survive in your pack and so that you 're taking the right amount for the length of the trip . My favourite camping breakfast is instant oatmeal . Add extra raisins , brown sugar , or other dried fruits if you like . Boil water in the morning and you have coffee and oatmeal and you are set for a pretty physical day . ( Bring a whisperweight stove that uses butane or liquid fuel - fires are far too slow for morning purposes . ) Beef jerky ( made at home if you have a dehydrator , or bought in the store if you do n't ) along with dried fruit and nuts will meet any snack needs through the day . If you must have lunch , you can use bagels or English muffins ( on week + trips I <URL> english muffins , your trip is short so just bring a few packages ) with cheese ( the " light " cheeses keep better , and buy several small ones so they stay sealed longer than one big one ) , sausage ( the no-refrigeration needed ones ) , peanut butter , jam , or honey . If one of your days features a big climb to a gorgeous lookout and you know you 'll want a rest , packages of soup mix from the grocery store can make a 30 minute stop into a delightful lunch . Again the whisperlight stove and some locally-sourced water . Dinner the first night can be meat you took from your freezer that morning , wrapped in plastic and several layers of newspaper . I 've done it and when we unrwap it , it 's not just cold , it still has ice crystals in the middle . Fry it , and cook some fresh veg with it as you would at home . The second night try <URL> using that no-refrigeration pepperoni , some cheese , and maybe some onions and any other veg you 've brought . The third night , something vegetarian built around lentils and rice - we love kusherie - or beans in a sauce , like meatless spicy chili with dumplings . You can also dry hamburger meat ( cooked ) in your oven at home and use that as the meat in spaghetti sauce or shepherds pie filling . Set the hot pan of cooked sauce aside with a towel around it while you cook the starch - it will stay plenty warm and you only need the one little stove . These need you to bring canned or dried veg , I choose dried for the weight and rehydrate them right in the sauce or stew . Bottom line is this is way easier than you think . Have a great time !
There are buses . At the very least , you can get a bus 1.5 hours west to Calama , which has a bigger exchange . A member of our party did that in August ( winter ) and got to Antofagasta , Iquique and more . The bus companies in Chile/Bolivia do n't have much online presence - it 's far easier to just get one in the town - but go as early as possible when you know when you want to leave , gives you more options . Indeed , as per <URL> , there are many daily arrivals into Antofagasta from both San Pedro and Calama . If you are arriving in San Pedro after a Salar De Uyuni tour , ask your tour company as they can often book ahead for you . Members of my party did that with Tierra Mistica - the company we used for the salt flats . In general , after 4 months travel in South America from July to November , the only place I could really book online was in Argentina - everywhere else I just did it at the bus terminal in each city , and never had a problem finding some sort of bus .
It is completely okay . I do similar things all the time , although the two passports I hold are both visa-free in most of the places I visit . The Greek official will not care whether you have a stamp from Turkey in your passport . She or he will be concerned only with stamps from Greece and other countries in the Schengen area , to determine whether you have ever overstayed your visa . Assuming you have not , there will be no problem . Of course , if the Greek official does ask about your travel to Turkey , or whether you have Iranian nationality , you should tell them that you are an Iranian national , and if it seems they want documentation of that , show your passport . In general , you should volunteer as little information as you need to , but always give any information that they ask for . I would add that I once entered Turkey with some Bosnian/Canadian dual nationals who did not have their Bosnian passports . Turkey is ( or was then ) one of the few places that Bosnians can go without a visa . I was traveling on a US passport , and my visa fee was something like USD 15 or 20 . The Canadians , entering on their Canadian passport , had to pay a fee of $ 60 , if I recall correctly . I think the disparate fee amounts are based on the fees that Turks have to pay for visits to the country in question . My friends regretted that they had not brought their Bosnian passports ; you 'll save a decent amount by remembering your Iranian one .
Most budget airlines rely on short turnaround times for efficiency which you just ca n't do on long haul flights and fly A320s or Boeing 737s ( most budget airlines use aircraft of this class ) which top off at 5-6 hour flight duration range . So I 'd be surprised to hear of a ' budget ' long haul airline which flies trans-Pacific from Vancouver to Bangkok or any South-East Asian / Australia / NZ destination . However , if you are already in Bangkok and want to fly to Australia / NZ you have a couple of options : <URL> : Qantas Airways ' budget airline arm , this gives you the most number of options from Bangkok to NZ ( Auckland and Christchurch ) and to a whole bunch of Australian cities . Prices are usually higher on average than budget airlines in the region but they also tend to be more stable . If you are on Oneworld Alliance or Qantas Airlines ' frequent flyer programme then you can pay higher rate ' full ' fares that allow you to earn frequent flyer points , although you have to consider whether the amount of points you earn is worth the price difference from ' lite ' fares . <URL> : From Bangkok they only fly to Perth , which may not be what you want . Their hub is in Singapore and they used to have flights from Singapore to NZ but I do n't see that option any more . <URL> : Air Asia 's hub is Kuala Lumpur , so if you fly with them you will have to fly via KUL . They connect to Christchurch in NZ , and Australia ( Melbourne , Perth , Gold Coast ) . For general flight cost comparison in this region I would suggest using <URL> which is a Singapore-based travel aggregator much like Kayak but often throws up options other travel sites miss out .
With Fido you can get a pre-pay sim for <URL> . There are a variety of prepaid <URL> available . Personally I use the $ 10/month rate . You can change rates whenever you refill your account . From Google it looks like there are plenty of Fido stores in Vancouver . So you could pop in and pick up a sim when you arrive . The Fido website is good for managing your account . Note that I did have trouble refilling my account via the website using an overseas ( New Zealand ) credit card . If you have the same problem you can always buy refill voucher from a Fido store .
Most likely the tour operators are n't actually sold out as such , but the the permits are . When there are no permits available , no tour operator is going to be able to help you ! Permits are indeed required for all hikers on the on the " Inca Trail " , and for peak periods they often sell out months in advance as only ~ 200 hikers are allowed to set-out on the trail each day . According to <URL> , there are no permits available between April and early July . There are other options for hiking around Cusco , the most popular being the <URL> - although personally I 'd try and reschedule your trip at a time when you can get a permit for the Inca Trail if at all possible - it is an amazing experience !
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
There is an established trail that was developed with the same aim as the idea behind your question : the <URL> . It is about 800km long from coast to coast and wiki states 45 days for the average hiker . It is however very remote and I would not advise is without decent hiking experience in mountainous terrain . It is also unmarked and the navigation is rather tricky in places . Easier options are the <URL> and <URL> , which run more or less parallel to the HRP further to the north in France ( GR10 ) and further to the south in Spain ( GR11 ) . Those are more accessible and marked , but stay serious undertakings to cover in a single trek . The distances are somewhere between 800 and 900km ( depending on the source ) . Many variations are possible for each of those three trails , including switching from trail to trail . There are plenty of guidebooks around and the links on each of the wiki pages will give you a good start . If you are feeling very competitive you might even try to <URL> next summer . There are no legal or political issues with the Spanish-French border . As long as you are allowed into the Schengen zone , you are fine . If you want to cross into Andorra and your nationality requires a Schengen visa , you should be a bit more careful and make sure that you have a multiple entry Schengen visa ( <URL> ) . Thanks to phoog for that catch . And if you really care a lot about the Spanish-French border , keep in mind that it consists of the three unconnected pieces : one on each side of Andorra and the border around <URL> .
Clothes Wear confortable clothes . Try everything heavily before travelling . Remember that you will do the same leg movement for several hours . Seams or other similar things rubbing the skin will " burn " and to the limit hurt . Take lite clothes to cycle . Even with cold weather you will heat up . Weight Try not taking more than 20Kg ( the less the better as you can imagine ) Eating and drinking Carry a lot of water ( and drink it ) . Remeber that 1Lt water = 1Kg and that 's weight you will carry so manage well you water reserve . Prefer carbohydrates Small cereal and chocolate bars are excellent snacks . ( Try to avoid too much chocolate or sweet things though , including " sugar " drinks . These will make you more thirsty ) . Cooking I am not sure it fits your situation but considering you will be cycling and camping it might be a good idea to take some cooking gear . Now and than it 's good to be able to prepare a warm meal or drink something warm . Tea , for example , is a nice drink to carry if you like it . Just take a small camping stove and a camping cooking kit . You can find these for very affordable prices and lite enough . If you 're in a " <URL> " you can also <URL> . Tools Before departure you should do a checkup on your bike . Brakes , brake cables and the tire condition is fundamental . Put oil on the chains and other mechanical parts . Take the tools you need to do minimal repairs . Choose carefully to avoid weight . Most good quality bicycles only need one or two types of tools to do standard repairs like adjusting brakes or removing a wheel . Think of what are the most commons things that can happen and prepare for those situations . Some examples are flat tires ( very common ) , adjust brakes ( after few hundred km 's you will need that ) , broken chain ( rare , discussable , but the tool to fix it is small ) . Take a tube to replace in case of a flat tire , and a tube repair kit . A small pump is also important . Sleeping There is not much to say here . Reduce your needs to the bare minimum . Take whatever you really need , as small as possible and adequate to the weather conditions . Of course like all camping ( and biking ) gear smaller means either less resistant , less warm or a lot more expensive . Try to balance your needs . Physical preparation / finishing successfully It 's good that you have some preparation . You should at least enjoy cyicling and do it regulary . It 's important to know your limits and plan the Kms/day you will do . Above that , the most important thing is will . If you really want to do it you will do it . Listen your body though and allways have plan B ( eg. : extra meal , extra water for emergencies , extra stop points planned etc. ) in case you have to rest or stop earlier in the day . You should also be prepared to skip a scheduled night stop . It can happen that you plan a place to stay and upon arrival you discover you ca n't stay there for some reason . Last words Avoid carrying things on your back . Try to put everything on the bike . You will probably need a back support and double bags . This depends a lot on the terrain , but if you 're going in a flat clean road ) even if it 's unpaved/dirt you can use the maximum pressure in the tires . It will be easier to cycle . If you start " feeling " too much the ground decrease the pressure a bit . It will increase safety and comfort ( it will be a bit harder to cycle though ) . You have to evaluate it yourself . Do n't try any " stunts " with the bicycle . Even if the stunt is not that big deal like climbing a small step . The center of gravity of the bike shifted and its behavior is completely different with the extra load . You can easily get a flat tire or worse fall and injure yourself or break something on the bike jeopardizing the trip . I learned that the hard way . I was lucky enough not to jeopardize the trip but it was a short miss .
As a Polish citizen you do n't need a <URL> in Canada if you have a biometric passport , however , you do need one to enter the United States you do need to have a visa as you 're NOT eligible to enter under <URL> . Which means the following : You can enter Canada as many times as you want as long as you do n't exceed maximum allowed stay , which is 6 months or duration determined by the immigration officer . In order to enter US multiple times you will need a multi-entry visa because unless you have one you will only be allowed in the US once and if you leave you will need another visa . In order to obtain the visa you will need to apply for it at a US embassy where you live or in Poland . There is a <URL> available from the US embassy .
As a UK Citizen , you are eligible for the <URL> . Upon entering the US by land , all you 'll need is your passport and to not have entered any of the few proscribed countries in the past . Look at <URL> . I 've quoted Point 4 below , but you 'll probably want to read the whole thing and ensure none of the issues apply to you . If they do n't , you 'll be allowed to stay in the US for up to 90 days , no problem . 4 . What are the specific changes to the VWP ? Under the Act , travelers in the following categories are no longer eligible to travel or be admitted to the United States under the VWP : Nationals of VWP countries who have traveled to or been present in Iran , Iraq , Sudan , or Syria on or after March 1 , 2011 ( with limited exceptions ) . Nationals of VWP countries who are also nationals of Iran , Iraq , Sudan , or Syria . These restrictions do not apply to VWP travelers whose presence in Iraq , Syria , Iran , or Sudan was to perform military service in the armed forces of a program country , or in order to carry out official duties as a full-time employee of the government of a program country . These military and official government services exceptions , however , do not apply to the dual national restriction . Travelers who are known to fall into the dual national category noted above will receive notice via email on or about January 21 , 2016 that their current ESTA is no longer valid . The Act also requires that all VWP travelers use an electronic passport for travel to the United States by April 1 , 2016 . Finally , the Act includes other changes to the VWP to promote enhanced information sharing of terrorism and criminal data , and use of INTERPOL databases and notices for border screening purposes . The vast majority of VWP eligible travelers will not be affected by the legislation . Finally , this answer has only been about entering the US . To fly into Canada , as commented by <URL> , you will most likely be eligible for and want to apply to receive an <URL> .
As they are separate countries , you will indeed need two visas - one for Canada , and one for the US . You will need to apply for each one separately . As Algeria is NOT one of the countries eligible for the US <URL> , you 'll need to apply for a visa in advance - <URL> . To get a visa , you 'll need to fill out an application from the Canadian embassy in Algeria for Canada , and the US Embassy for the United States visa . These quite often take time to process , so try and do it as soon as you know when you 're travelling - do n't leave them to the last minute !
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
Golkonda Fort If you 're interested in looking at a fort , then I can suggest you <URL> . It is almost 11 Km from city center , but the distance will of course depend on the area , you 're staying in . The fort had a vault which stored world famous <URL> and <URL> diamonds once . The fort itself is an impressive structure and quite huge , giving you a lot of opportunities to explore around , photograph the place and around . The fort overlooks the city , so you will get vantage poitns for having a look at the city . Hussain Sagar Lake The man made <URL> has a lot of structures and attractions around it . Most notably being the Buddha statue in the middle of the lake . You can enjoy a clear evening around the lake , with sunset presenting beautiful scene . Apart from these , you can check the route and attractions for some heritage walks inside the city , which cover monuments inside the city . The official state tourism department website lists 4 routes . You can check <URL> , to explore more about the route and attractions .
end question
start question
Is it possible to visit Russia and never register my visa if I frequently change cities ?
I 'm answering as a frequent traveler to Russia ( have been to many different cities there over the course of many years ) . First , in all my travels and interactions with Russian authorities , I have never once been asked by any government official for any registration papers ( though I 've always registered when required by law ) . A lot of the scary warnings about registering in Russia date back to the early 2000s , when the laws were much stricter and it was a real possibility to be stopped in the streets of Moscow by police for a random registration check ( as I understand it , such checks are illegal now ) . Registration law has undergone a lot of changes over the years , most notably the official Federal Migration Service site mentions a significant change/relaxation of the law in 2007 ( see <URL> in Russian ) Having said all of the above , here is my understanding of the information on the site above , as well as of the text of the law itself ( <URL> ) : If you 're staying in a hotel ( even for one day ) , the hotel will register you Otherwise , you 're required to register within 7 days of arrival to your " place of stay " ( " место пребывания " ) . It is reasonable to interpret it as " within 7 days of arriving to a particular city " ( there is other mention in the law of being able to change the " place of stay " so I 'm guessing " place of stay " does NOT mean the " final destination " of the trip ) . Sadly , however , there 's no clarification of this anywhere in the law . I guess it would be up to a judge/local authorities to interpret , but again - I do n't think realistically this is a problem . In your situation , I would just keep all the travel documentation and not worry about registering . Confusingly , the English-language page ( <URL> ) does mention registration within 7 days of arriving in Russia ( with no mention of the " place of stay " ) , but I 'm pretty sure this is just a poor translation , or instructions for the common case of someone visiting a single place in Russia . In any case , the English page is not the actual law . If you want to be super-safe , spend your 1st night in a hotel/hostel ( this way you technically are registered in the first 7 days since your arrival ) . Given how confusing this area of the law is , you of course wo n't be immune from random annoyances given your registration-less status . I can think of one example where this happened to me : A hotel clerk ( in a proper , expensive , Western-style hotel ) refused to register me because I have n't registered anywhere within 7 days of arriving into Russia ( because I was hopping from city to city ) - basically , they took the interpretation of the law as stated on the English page above - however , this happened just once , and I do n't think the hotel clerk was an expert on migration law , I think she was just trying to play it safe in the face of confusing information Please keep in mind that I 'm not a lawyer ( especially not a Russian one ) Registration has been an unpleasant and time-consuming process every time I 've done it ( trying to fit into the local FMS office 's schedule , lineups , complex forms that have to be refilled multiple times until you get it just right , extensive documentation requirements - proof of apartment ownership and such , etc ) . It 's worth avoiding it if at all possible .
The decision of accepting or not accepting your entry to Ukraine is made exclusively by frontier guard of Ukraine . Notice of Ukrainian Embassy in RF clearly <URL> that : Решение на пропуск граждан Российской Федерации будут приниматься по результатам контроля второй линии . В первую очередь внимание будет обращаться на мужчин крепкого телосложения , следующих в Украину в одиночку или в составе небольших групп . Decision about admission of Russian citizens across the border will be made considering the result of 2nd line control . So what is the 2nd line control in practice ? To learn that we should address <URL> " About border control " . Paragraph 9 of this law concludes : Procedure of 2nd line control is determined by the results of 1st line control . ... This procedure can include : Determination of departure and destination points of the traveler , purpose of travel and the conditions of stay . Additional documents as well as interview can be demanded if necessary . Determination of sufficiency of funds during the period of stay including return ticket or transit ticket to third-party country or ability to receive additional funding legally on the territory of Ukraine . ... As one can see invitation fully complies to the first point of these requirements and can be claimed by the border officer . So your entry ( or rejection of entry ) is completely up to you : your consciousness , self-confidence and behavior on the border , but nevertheless invitation letter is highly appreciated .
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
As I know , you definitely do n't need the Russian visa if you are not going to leave the ship during stay in port . So you need to worry about it . Russian embassies can help you to obtain Russian visa due your unusual situation , so you can try it all the time - we are all the people , and you always can try to communicate with embassy . Also you should note what 2011 year is a start year for the 2011-2018 tourism campaign , and you have great chance to solve your problem . The nearest shipment from Kerch to the Poti will be tomorrow , so you should n't be afraid for this ship is not available . Also I 'd like to note that this route is direct and has no stops in Russia .
As someone who has undergone the registration process many times ( including as recently as the end of 2014 ) , I can tell you that the " invitation letter " ( or anything to do with your invitation ) is completely irrelevant to the registration process - it is NOT on the list of documents required to register you as a foreigner . The person registering you can be anyone ( but they do have to have proof of ownership of the property where you 're being registered ) .
For all practical purposes , the Mongolian tögrög is a closed currency , meaning you ca n't buy it outside of Mongolia . I 'm not quite certain why this is so , but probably because it seems to be illegal to take more tögrög out of the country than you bring in , so there 's no easy way for an overseas bank to gain a supply of tögrög to sell to you . ( But do n't worry about getting into trouble taking a few left-over notes out of the country . ) ATMs are plentiful in central Ulaanbaatar . They 're often inside banks , rather than on outside walls , and are typically labelled ' ATM ' or ' банкомат ' . I had no difficulty using a British bank card there . If your first stop in Mongolia is Ulaanbaatar , you wo n't have any difficulty obtaining currency . If you arrive by train , then it 's normal for a man to come down the train selling tögrög in exchange for various currencies . I brought some US dollars with me for that purpose , as that tends to be the most easily traded currency .
In all probability , you should be able to board the flight . I use the expression because this is not a matter of rules , but depends on various factors that can not be predetermined , such as the punctuality of the flight that lands you into Frankfurt , the rush on the two flights , and the number of people doing the transition from this to that . I had a similar experience once while flying Lufthansa from Bangalore to San Francisco . I had a little more time than you -- 90 minutes instead of 55 , but guess what , my Bangalore-Frankfurt flight was late by around an hour . 30 minutes would have been impossible to make the connect but the airlines staff knew that , and they boarded all passengers of the incoming flight that had to connect to the next flight to San Francisco in a separate coach , took them to a special window where they got their passports stamped , and then back onto the coach and the plane for the connecting flight . I think the connecting flight was even delayed by a few minutes as 30 minutes would not have been sufficient to transfer 50 + passengers . It was smooth for passengers , though a little tiring of flying 20 straight hours . One of my two check in bags did n't make it though . I got only one bag in SFO , and the other came to my hotel the next evening .
It seems you wo n't have a problem with this , just make sure you carry the official documentation about your name change . It 's also very common to carry two passports , the old one with the valid visa and a newer one . Quoting the US <URL> : A change of name will not affect the validity of the visa . We recommend that when traveling , you carry a copy of the document showing the name change .
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
The situation is very complicated . Georgia says that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are Georgian territories , and you can go there from Georgia by this border crossing : to South Ossetia from <URL> - my friends from Germany made a trip this year . If you get into these territories not by these points , you would get problems ( fee from $ 1200 or jail up to 5 years ! ) during next visit to Georgia , according to <URL> ( sorry , only in russian ) , because you 'll get stamps from Abkhazia and South Ossetia . You can only try to get new passport before visiting the Georgia . From Russia you can visit these territories by this border crossing : to South Ossetia via <URL> There is not much problem to get a visa from <URL>
Yes . I recently stayed at Calangute beach and a taxi driver took me to Old Goa and Panjim for 1400 rupees . This price is from a government table and is used by all the taxi drivers . If Panjim was not involved the ride would have cost around 1000 rupees . If you negotiate you can get it cheaper than the table price . I do n't remember exactly how long the journey took , but it was certainly not more than 90 minutes .
<URL> , that ( as EU citizen ) you can get 72-hours visa to Kaliningrad at the border . You can get 72 hours visa only at 3 points : - Kaliningrad airport , if you arrive by plane - Russian-Polish border ( Bagrationovsk and Mamonovo ) . Another way is to get your visa in Poland is in consulate in Warsaw , but that may take longer .
You are definitely liable for duties and taxes in your final destination ( your usual place of residence or the place you are moving to ) . You can not circumvent these rules by adding transit points or a round-trip somewhere . You can also be caught weeks or months after the fact , successfully going through the border does not mean the applicable taxes are not due anymore . When it comes to short visits and/or ( airport ) transits in a third country , you probably do n't have to pay customs duties and taxes but , to do everything completely by the book , you might need to complete some temporary import procedure or to provide a deposit to be refunded once you prove that you have exported the goods again . In most cases , for consumer goods and the things tourists typically carry with them , nobody bothers but such procedure do exist for really expensive things , professional equipment , cars , etc. . See also <URL> for a related discussion and <URL> for a specific example .
Yes , there are numerous such offers : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> They all seem to start at Kathmandu , so you can probably shop around there .
From <URL> Whether you use the online process or contact TfL Customer Services , we can credit your online Oyster account if : you only had pay as you go credit on your card you have five days or less on the tickets on your Oyster card We will charge a # 5 administration fee when processing your refund . In some cases this may mean that no refund is payable . " So online seems possible but any refund even smaller than you were hoping . Also , the above may not be much use to you if " credit your online Oyster account " does not suit . So for " cash " on line does not seem an option , there are <URL> ( by post , at a Tube station ) but the least impractical may be : " When you call Customer Services , on 0343 222 1234 ( TfL call charges ) , you 'll need to confirm that you are the registered owner of the Oyster card you 're calling about . You must provide the following details : Your Oyster card number The answer to the security question you selected when you registered or protected your card online If you do n't have this information , Customer Services will ask you some other questions to find your card and identify you as the registered owner . We can refund you by : Cheque ( cheque refunds in pound sterling only ) Payment to your bank account ( UK bank accounts only ) Credit to your Oyster card . We can refund up to # 50 back to your Oyster card as pay as you go credit Web account credit . We can give you a web account credit which you can use when you next top up or buy a Travelcard using your Oyster online account " An " 0343 " number from overseas might also eat into any net refund . Overall , probably best to forget it !
In terms of getting a new passport , <URL> . You can renew or replace your passport at any time . It costs # 72.50 by post or # 81.25 through the Post Office 's Passport Check &amp; Send service . Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one - up to a maximum of 9 months .
Apparently there are no direct ferries : <URL> It would be unlikely to save any money : see <URL> . A mid week round trip ticket is around US $ 200 on Hongkong airlines or China Air . Maybe US $ 250 on Eva . Cathay Pacific is significantly more expensive but it 's by no way the only game in town . It 's hard to see how a ferry could be cheaper than US $ 200 .
To the best of my knowledge Cambodia Tourist Visas and eVisas are single entry only . But it is possible to transit in Siem Reap without entering the country , assuming you can have your bags checked through to Laos . Are you flying on the same airline or are you changing airlines ?
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
What are the recommended concentration camp tours near Berlin ?
I would recommend you <URL> . It 's only 35km from Berlin . Here is a <URL> that they offer . Here are some more tours : <URL> , <URL> , which also do other tours in Berlin . They are walking tours where you meet at a particular time and take the train to the destination .
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
Many US airports do in fact have a " mail back " kiosk near security , where you can drop off your pocket knife , attach a form with your address and some money ( postage plus a hefty markup ) , and have it mailed back to you . <URL> is one of the companies that operates these kiosks ; they claim to have kiosks in <URL> ( elsewhere on their site they say 28 ) .
Via the <URL> , it is possible to book a bus from Berlin to Krakow for 29 EUR , even for a departure on a ( very ) short notice ( read : tomorrow ) . The price for a regular train ticket is 61 EUR . Eurolines will charge you about the same . The travel time by bus or train is 9 - 10 hours . By train you have to change once . The typical routing is via Warsaw . The plane is more expensive . Air Berlin has direct flights from Berlin to Krakow . One-way fares start at about 100 EUR , even for a departure at short notice ( in a week or so ) . Travel time is 1h20 . Regarding Poznan , it is an underrated destination in Poland . It 's definitely worth a stop . Note that all the trains from Warsaw to Berlin stop in Poznan too . It is indeed possible to travel on a night train from Poznan to Krakow . I do n't think that you will save a lot of money by doing that ( if any at all ) . The major advantage of the night train is the time saving . You can leave Berlin in the late afternoon and you will arrive in Krakow early in the morning . Traveling by day you will leave in the morning and arrive in the evening . On the other hand it can be pleasant to spend an evening in Krakow and sleep in a real bed .
The authoritative answer is at <URL> , but I 'll summarize for posterity . Whoever you 're staying with , be it hotel or apartment , is supposed to take care of registering you . They can take care of the registration at any police station or post office , you do not need to be present . When it 's done , they 'll get a piece of paper for you that confirms registration , and all is good . If you do not register , and you 're stopped by police , and it 's been over seven working days since you arrived in Russia , you 'll be fined ( & euro ; 50-100 ) . In theory , you can even be deported and blacklisted for returning for 5 years , but this is very unlikely . In your case , I 'd get in touch with whoever is renting you the apartment and ensure they sort it out , the magic word is propiska ( registration ) . It 's in their best interest to do so as well , since they can also get fined even more heavily for having unregistered foreigners staying with them .
Tower 23 Hotel 723 Felspar Street , Pacific Beach , CA 92109 San Diego Follow this link : <URL> The price is around 199 USD/night ( from booking.com ) and the booking.com review score is 8.5 . It also states that " Guests at Tower 23 are surrounded by a large variety of recreational activities . Hiking trails , fishing , golf , surfing and whale watching are only minutes from the front doors " from what I searched in Google , it seems that you can surf in Mission Bay which is very near to the hotel . if you click the review section , a couple from Germany also stated " ... direct view from the balconary to the sea ; a lot of surfers in front of the hotel ... "
Unfortunately this site is only in German , but maybe you understand some basic information , because there are also lot of pictures in it : <URL> It is a 18 day tour in Ecuador that leads from the Andes until Amazon . I know you have only time for 4-7 , but maybe you can get some suggestions from it . Here is another German site which offers a lot of different tours in Ecuador that are not necessarily Trekking tours like Hauser : <URL> !
Chiang Mai is a very good base for exploring the North of Thailand . One-day-treks can be booked all over the town for around 1000 Baht . They will do the standard tour , a little trek , an elephant ride , hill tribe visit and rafting . If that 's what you 're looking for you 'll be fine just booking some tour . I would personally ask for a private tour and pay a little more to get a better experience . Walking around the old town can be done without a guide . Ask the hotel staff to give you a map and let them show you points of interest . Make sure to visit some of the ( night ) markets around town . It 's all about food . Chiang Rai is 3-4 hours bus ride . There are buses leaving every 30min from Arcade Bus Station . It is definitely worth visiting .
I 'm not familiar with regulations and expectations in Clinton Hill , but in general for Brooklyn : Is this legal ? Yes , and it turns out , necessary . Is it safe ? Different neighborhoods have different levels of safety , and I 'm not sure how to compare to where you live in Ecuador , but most people who own a vehicle in a residential neighborhood do it . Is it possible ( or advisable ) to leave your car overnight parked on the street ? There is very little parking in the residential neighborhoods , so almost all of the residents leave their cars parked in the streets over night , as there is no alternative . On thing you should be aware of is alternate side of the street parking rules . These rules are in place to allow for street cleaning and the specifics will be posted on signs in your neighborhood . The general rule is that on a specific day of the week for a specific time window , no parking is allowed on one side of the street . You may not get caught , but if the street sweeper shows up and your car is parked on that side , you will get a ticket and possibly towed . As an example , for your street maybe Tuesdays from 8-12 you can not park on the left side and Wednesday from 12-4 you can not park on the right . This has become a way of life in these neighborhoods and if you are around at the start or end times you will often see people watching for an open spot so the can move as soon as the time changes .
Probably , <URL> is the best known walking tour in Boston . It is a 2.5 mile walk . You can book a tour , but you can also easily download the map and follow the trail by yourself . The best resource is probably the <URL> web page . They have dozens of free <URL> that you can use to follow some predefined walks .
A typical Japanese breakfast consists of rice , <URL> , pickled vegetables and/or salad , fish , and possibly poached/cooked egg or <URL> . The price for this kind of breakfast starts at around 400 yen ( at a family hotel or cheap restaurant ) . Lunch might be out of a <URL> ( with contents quite similar to the breakfast minus the soup ) , or in a restaurant it might be some sort of <URL> or <URL> , or a <URL> combination of main dish , rice and soup . Expect to pay between 500 and 1000 yen . A very traditional dinner would again have rice and miso soup and pickles , plus several main dishes including <URL> and multiple types of fish or other seafood , or meat ( thought strictly speaking , meat is traditionally not eaten at all ) . But there is also a large variety of specialty dishes that often constitute a full meal : Sushi / Sashimi Sukiyaki / <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> etc. . All of these vary wildly in price , from below 1000 yen up to 10,000 yen and more at high-class restaurants . And of course , many Japanese also like foreign food , be it Chinese , French , Italian or Indian .
It 's really not far from downtown . I and a friend <URL> for just a day ( that link is my blog ) , and we walked all over town , including down to the beach . There 's not that much in the way of sights , but it 's a nice enough stop off for a day or two . Definitely walkable from bus station to central sites to the beach and back ( my friend is n't a big walker and he was fine with it too ) .
Indian immigration officials only really care about yellow fever vaccination certificates if you have travelled or were in transit within past week in <URL> . This is a prerequisite for clearing immigration checkpoints so do n't ignore it ; albeit this is something that will affect only a small set of travellers to India as there are n't many direct flights from South America or Africa . . World Health Organisation also only lists information about malaria and yellow fever . <URL> : Courses or boosters usually advised : diphtheria ; tetanus ; poliomyelitis ; hepatitis A ; typhoid ( polio not required for Andaman and Nicobar islands ) . Vaccines sometimes advised : hepatitis B ; rabies ; Japanese encephalitis ; cholera . Assuming you have followed your country 's standard immunisation course , whether you really need a vaccination depends . If you 're going for a couple of days or a short 1-2 week trip , you probably do n't need any of these . For longer term travellers : If you plan to travel by trains or local public transport , I 'd highly recommend getting a tetanus booster . Especially on public buses many surfaces are made of sheet metal and chances are that if it 's old , it 's going to have sharp corners you might jab yourself on . This is probably erring too much on the side of caution ; still , you 're better off getting one than panicking once you 're on the road and not near a major city . Any of the water-borne disease vaccinations such as cholera , typhoid , hepatitis A/B : this really depends . Some travellers are made of sterner stuff and can walk away with <URL> at worst . Others are not - I 've contracted typhoid twice in India , for instance ( not when travelling though , grew up there ) . This is a call you need to take . If you plan to travel a lot to semi-urban/rural areas , then this will be sensible precaution to take . Also , if you plan to travel for a longer term but have n't had time yet to get your vaccinations before flying in , consider getting vaccinated in India . You 'll probably fly into a major city like Delhi , Mumbai , Bangalore , Hyderabad , Chennai , or Kolkata and the standard of healthcare is generally pretty good in all these cities . Cost of private outpatient healthcare is relatively very cheap in India and you can just walk in without an appointment and get your vaccinations for a fraction of the cost of getting it in your home country . Most private clinics and practices have English-speaking staff and good standards of quality control . If pressed for ideas , just search online for ' Apollo Clinic ' or ' Max Medicentre ' in the particular city you 're staying in - these are well-known private clinic chains . ( Prices are slightly higher than usual at these chain private clinics . )
The National Park Service has an arrangement where only a single company is granted an exclusive franchise to travel to or take guests to Alcatraz . Therefore , if you want to go to Alcatraz , there is only one company you can travel with , and private boats are forbidden . <URL> : Tickets for the Ferry to Alcatraz are available at the Alcatraz Cruises website , but they sell out fast so buy in advance . There are a few other websites when you search , but I ca n't vouch for any of them . What you could do to confirm is to call Alcatraz Cruises Box office : +1 415 981-7625 , or email them ( info@alcatrazcruises.com ) . However , even when I was in San Francisco last year , tickets were sold out online and it was n't possible to buy them in person on the day . However , that was Fleet Week , so your mileage may vary on a different week . I 'd drop them a line and see what your options are .
Short answer - as best as I can find : No . However this does n't mean there wo n't be . Historically book tours that exist have tended to only appear once a movie exists . While Harry Potter existed in book form , platform 9 and 3/4 at Kings Cross only appeared after movies featured it , and Lord of the Rings tours in New Zealand obviously only appeared to show filming locations ( as obviously there 's no real middle earth to tour ) . The best option aside from doing your own might be ( if you had the cash ) to approach a custom tour company in the regions and ask them to create one for you .
DM was open at Berlin Südkreuz , 25th December Opening hours was : 13:00 - 18:00 It is also open today and all holiday days , in case anyone needs it .
What you 're describing is called an " Open Jaw " ticket , and there 's a very simple rule for determining if it applies or not . Lets say you 're flying A-B and then C-A . There 's 3 distances involved here - A-B , B-C ( ie , the overland segment ) and C-A . For a ticket to be a valid " open jaw " , the distance B-C needs to be shorter than both A-B and C-A . eg , SFO-STL ( 1735 miles ) and ORD-SFO ( 1846 miles ) is a valid open jaw as the distance between the two cities is 258 miles , which is less than both of the flown legs . SFO-LAS ( 414 miles ) and DEN-SFO ( 967 miles ) is NOT a valid open jaw routing , as the distance between LAS and DEN is 628 miles , which is greater than one of the flown legs . For US domestic flights , it often does n't matter if it 's a valid open jaw or not . Many domestic flights are sold on a " one-way " basis , so it does n't matter if your flights are a valid open jaw or not - or even if they are purchased on the same ticket or not - they will cost the same as in effect you 're just paying for 2 one-way fares . Some fares do specify that they are only available for return or open-jaw , and that 's when these rules do come into play . For international flights , open jaw can make a huge difference to fares , as most cheap fares are not available one-way , they are only available as part of a return or open jaw ticket .
The purpose of a transit visa is ... to transit through a country on the way to another destination . In some cases , a transit visa is simply a regular visa with a different name based on the purpose of the journey . When there is a distinction between a transit visa and a regular visitor 's visa , there might be several differences : Nationals of some countries might face extra scrutiny/restrictions ( e.g. in the Schengen area most people can transit through an airport without a visa but some do need one even in this case ) . The transit visa is a way to implement such a policy . Holders of transit visas might be unable to leave the airport and actually enter the country . The transit visa is a way to enforce this restriction ( e.g. " airport transit visa " in the Schengen area ) . A transit visa might be cheaper than a regular visitor 's visa ( e.g. " Direct airside transit visa " in the UK , transit visas are even completely free of charge in Canada ) , possibly to make transiting through the country more attractive and increase the local airports/airlines ' turnover or in acknowledgment of the fact that such a visa is generally less useful . In theory , I guess that someone landing without a transit visa where required could be refused entry and forced to return to their point of origin , be detained until they get their connecting flight or , if none of this is possible for one reason or another , face deportation . However , the rules are designed to make sure that it does n't happen in the first place . Airlines are bound by international agreements to take back people who are refused entry and might face additional fines when it happens , depending on local law . This provides them with strong incentives to check if passengers fulfill any relevant visa obligation before boarding . Note that in many cases , someone making it to a state 's territory has the right to apply for asylum , even if they got there illegally or do n't have a visa to enter the country . They could be detained and ultimately deported if their application is unsuccessful but ( in principle ) not immediately returned to their point of origin . Requiring transit visas for citizens of high-risk countries is one way potential destination countries make sure asylum seekers do n't even get that far and limit the number of requests .
As russian , I should mention other firm , much more popular here in Russian : <URL> They have a good set of offers , including Eco projects with volunteer work ( linked above ) , and more traditional tours . I think you should check the <URL> - if they are offering the climbing tour , they definitely can provide a tour with boat :) Even if they do n't , you can order the guided tour , and take the boat with you . Another interesting site is about <URL> , with schedule of department ( only in Russian ) . Good luck with your tours and welcome to Russia . PS : All of my friends who have visited the Baikal were using their own initiative - order tickets to the Irkutsk , and after that move to the Baikal and camp there in open zones - outdoor tourism is allowed in Russia and very popular from the Soviet times . If you have a friends inside Russia , try to use this option - its much more cheaper and fun :)
No , there are none to be seen from any regular organized dolphin watching tour . While there is an <URL> that has Dolphins , even those at least party <URL> . Looking up <URL> for <URL> of <URL> , you can discover that several species actually extend their territory to the coast of China , but all of them seem to avoid the area between South Korea and Shanghai and the subsequent Northwestern bay around Dalian and Beijing . Even the <URL> which is sometimes visible in <URL> of the south-western coast of Korea is endangered and does not come anywhere near Liaoning .
end question
start question
Can anyone recommend a good hiking trail in Scotland ?
Look at this : <URL> You could do it in stages . It 's really tough in places but the scenery is fantastic .
All the good <URL> are close to Ko Tao but if you want to stay on Ko Samui you can easily book a day trip from Samui and they 'll take you to the Ko Tao sites ( more expensive than from Ko Tao ) . <URL> is considered the best dive site in the Gulf of Thailand . But talk to the guys on site to give you more advice .
I would recommend Ambleside : there 's a frequent bus service ( 555 ) from Windermere ( which it is very close to ) and you can do day-hikes without a bus to Grasmere and quite a few fells ( e.g. Fairfield ) . With short bus trip ( at least in Summer ) you can get up the Langdale valley , and on to Coniston or towards Keswick for day-hikes on some classic hills ( the Old Man of Coniston , Helvellyn , etc. ) You might also consider Keswick itself ( about 30 mins by bus from Penrith station ) which is handy for Blencathra and Skiddaw hikes and Derwent Water .
Firstly I have n't been to Honduras for about five years and all this is off the top of my head : Honduras is cheap , since you mention USD I assume you are American so there are probably fairly cheap flights . Honduras is poor . They have beaches but they do n't take great care of them , at least on the mainland . I spent Easter at <URL> and found it very dirty compared to Mexico 's beaches . There is a backpacker scene . By far the main attractions are the scuba diving in <URL> followed by the Mayan ruins at <URL> . The diving courses were well known to be amongst the cheapest in the world . Many backpackers went there to get <URL> certification , or to progress to a higher level . I never went to the Bay Islands but some reports were that they were n't so great if you were n't diving . Perhaps the beaches there were also not great but many people mentioned <URL> being a problem . The Bay Islands were originally British rather than Spanish so surprise surprise - they speak English there ! I liked Copán very much even after having been to many Aztec and Mayan sites before in Mexico and Guatemala . The ruins are pretty but <URL> was absolutely my favourite place to just hang out in Honduras . It had hostels and a backpacker scene , it 's an attractive colonial town , and they seemed to be spending the tourist money wisely making it nicer . Usually I do n't like tourist trap towns but I loved this one . Honduras has one of the nicest capital cities in Central America , <URL> . Perhaps not utterly safe but safer than the neighbouring countries ' capitals plus it 's built in a hilly area which makes it more scenic . And there are backpacker hostels . But if you 're looking for a cultural experience my absolute number one recommendation for Honduras is to visit the <URL> villages . <URL> They have a unique culture and <URL> . Where else will you meet people that look African and speak a native American language ? They also have their own yummy alcoholic drink called <URL> . The villages welcome backpackers and the more difficult the village is the reach the more amazing your experience will be . All the villages are on the coast with amazingly beautiful beaches . From memory there is a string of them both to the east and west of <URL> and I seem to recall there are some near another coastal city in the country . But things change fast in the world so five years is a long time and I 'm sure some important things have changed . Do some research , and have a great trip !
I believe what you 're looking for is called the <URL> . 8 in | 19 cm Ruler Bottle Opener Can Opener Hard-wire Cutters Large Screwdriver Needlenose Pliers Phillips Screwdriver Regular Pliers Scissors Small Screwdriver Wire Cutters Wire Stripper but importantly , NO KNIVES !
In 2016 , the cabins in that area will open on June 23 , according to the Hemavan Tourist Office : Hi David , They open a few days later that month , the 23 of june so if you can wait a few more days it is not a bad idea . Before that it can still be a lot of snow and/or very wet in the terrain so we recommend people to walk after midsummer , usually it is better conditions then . Best regards / Med vänlig hälsning Further north ( Abisko to Kebnekaise ) , the cabins actually open a few days earlier : The huts [ near Abisko ] open on June 17th . Temperatures have been really high the last weeks so chances are that the trail will be snow-free even in higher altitudes by the time the huts open . However , I would recommend contacting fjallbokning@stfturist.se for more information .
It can save you a few bucks , but it 's probably not nearly as good a deal for you as they claim ( note that there are <URL> with different offers as well , those should be evaluated separately ) . The CityPASS folks promise 40 % savings , which sounds pretty good , but there are some caveats . Significantly , that two of the included attractions ( the Met and the Museum of Natural History ) are pay-as-you-wish , and many visitors do not pay the " recommended donation " amounts ( the average Met visitor pays <URL> , which includes people who pay the full price not knowing about this policy ) . What you pay is up to you , but it 's reasonable to assume CityPASS is n't paying the Met and the Natural History Museum anywhere near the full " recommended " donation amounts for their visitors either . So , what 's included ? ( All prices are for the adult pass , some attractions have senior discounts that would make the CityPASS a worse deal if you qualify . I 'm also assuming you 're not taking advantage of any free museum days , which can further reduce your costs significantly . I further assume you are n't using any of the coupons which can be found online for some attractions . ) : The Empire State Building , 86th floor observatory + same night readmission . CityPASS values this at $ 47 . ESB standard admission is $ 32 without the same night readmission , which is probably good enough for most people . American Museum of Natural History . CityPASS values this at $ 27 , which includes a Planetarium or Giant Screen show . Admission is pay-as-you-wish for the museum , but you <URL> $ 25 for the optional show . Metropolitan Museum of Art . CityPASS values this at $ 25 . Admission to the entire museum is pay-as-you-wish . Top of the Rock or Guggenheim Museum . I 'm not quite sure why you 'd do both the Top of the Rock and the Empire State Building , since both are observation decks , unless you really hate art . The Guggenheim is normally $ 25 , reduced to $ 15 when parts of the museum are closed while exhibitions are being changed . Statue of Liberty &amp; Ellis Island or Circle Line Sightseeing Cruises . The Statue + Ellis Island is worth $ 18 , but the CityPASS ticket wo n't let you go inside the statue ; that requires a separate ticket and advance reservations . The Circle Line Landmark Cruise does cost $ 37 , but there are other Circle Line cruises that cost less , not to mention other boat tour operators . 9/11 Memorial &amp; Museum or Intrepid Sea , Air &amp; Space Museum . The 9/11 memorial is free , but for the museum , the official website says it costs $ 24 , not the $ 26 CityPASS claims . At the Intrepid , the CityPASS wo n't get you into the Space Shuttle Pavilion , which requires a $ 33 ticket instead of the $ 26 one . Where does that leave us ? The adult CityPASS costs $ 116 . A few logical combinations : ESB + Natural History + Met + Guggenheim + Circle Line Landmark Cruise + 9/11 Museum = $ 128 , if we give the Met and the Natural History museum $ 5 each . $ 12 savings ( 9 % ) . Adjust up/down based on your desire to donate to these museums . Give them each a dollar and it becomes a $ 4 savings . Choose a cheaper cruise and the pass becomes a loss . ESB + Natural History + Met + Guggenheim + Statue of Liberty &amp; Ellis Island + Intrepid = $ 109 with $ 5 donations to each museum . You 've wasted $ 9 on the pass ( or give the museums a few more bucks and call it a draw ) . On the other hand , you can come out ahead by a few bucks if you want to see the Space Show or a giant film at the Natural History Museum . Therefore , the CityPASS can be marginally worthwhile if you already want to do the most expensive options from the choices , at the expense of locking you into specific things you must visit to get any benefit at all . You also give up some ability to buy upgrades to certain attractions by using your pass , such as access to the inside of the Statue of Liberty ( though reservations sell out very early for this ) . And the other downside is that the CityPASS locks you into a certain set of attractions that may not be the best use of your time as a visitor to New York , depending on what you want to see . Time spent waiting in line to go up two observation decks to get your money 's worth or doing other touristy things may be better used for other things , some of which are free , such as going to a deli or brunch , visiting MoMA , seeing a play ( they have those without singing you know ? ) , venturing into Brooklyn or Harlem or another area more interesting than Midtown , chowing down at a food hall or Smorgasburg , walking the High Line , a bridge , or Central Park , or standing in the middle of Grand Central . Doing these sorts of things , or whatever interests you , can give you a far better feel for the city than running from one tourist attraction to another with a determination to get your money 's worth . And , of course , if you want to and are able to support the museums by donating more , that 's always appreciated too .
I 've found reviews at Trip Advisor and , especially , Booking.com to be reliable . You can get mobile apps for both . The idea of sticking to one chain is also reasonable , but it might be difficult in some of the less populated areas . Off topic , on that route I recommend making a detour to as many National Parks of the Southwest as possible .
A great place to have a bird 's eye view of Boston is the Skywalk Observatory . It is located at the top of the Prudential Center . Please find the link below : <URL> It is not free but it is n't too expensive and open to the public Ticket Prices : Adults $ 13.00 Seniors $ 11.00 Children under 12 $ 9.00 Student with college ID $ 11.00
To add to Josh B 's answer - Wan Chai Computer Centre . Wan Chai MTR Station , Exit A4 on to the pedestrian bridge , there will be escalators when you hit the main road to let you get down to street level . It is right next to a McDonalds ( you can see that sign from the bridge ) . Less busy than the rest , good range . Mong Kok Computer Centre . Mong Kok MTR Station [ ( not Mong Kok East ) , exit E2 ( Bank Centre ) , walk straight across Sai Yeung Choi Street , then the next one and it will be on your right . There 's usually a newspaper/magazine stand in front . That area is busy during all the waking hours though , especially on the weekends ( mosh pit style crowds , minus the moshing of course ) , so you may want to try on a weekday . Hours are roughly 10-11am ish , until 6-7pm . Sham Shui Po Golden Computer Centre . Sham Shui Po MTR Station , follow the signs in the station . This one is a bit more out of the way and less touristy . Golden Computer Centre has two levels ; the ground floor sells mostly games , consoles and accessories ; the basement sells mainly computer accessories ( keyboards , mice , cables , adapters , phone chargers etc. ) . There 's also the Apliu Street markets , which sell all things electronic , like LED lights , torches , 2nd hand phones , power adapters , batteries . Finally , there 's your standard electrical chains in most shopping centres and strips which should also have what you want , probably a bit more expensive though . The main ones are Fortress and Broadway . If in doubt , you can always try Mong Kok , Sai Yeung Choi Street ( Mong Kok Station , Exit E2 ) - these stores have practically every second shopfront on that strip . That 's also a big tourist area , so the language barrier may be a bit easier . One last thing - all the best to you for remembering which place has what at what price . There 's nothing dodgy going on ( well , not that I found ) , but it is a crazy mind game trying to remember where each store is , especially when they all pretty much look the same , and the centres are n't exactly laid out in the most logical manner .
The nearest one from Barcelona is <URL> ( 30 minutes by car ) . There is a monastery on the top of the mountain . Alternatively you can go to <URL> ( 1 hour by car ) .
I suggest you start with the " Centro de Interpretação de Monsanto " ( Monsanto Interpretation Center ) . It is a building with a lot of information about this area ( pictures of flora and fauna , maps , guides ... ) and from there you can decide where you want to go next . Unfortunately , this page is not translated , but you can try to use an automatic translater : <URL> From this page you can also grab more ideas . Public transportations in Monsanto are not good . Bike is a very good option ( generally speaking of course ) .
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
There was a kombi from the airport to Swaziland ( Mbabane and Manzini ) for 400 rand
I wound up using <URL> and had no problems . It took around two weeks from application to the return of my passport with the visa in it .
The best advice you can get is from the guy that work late night in your hotel . Ask for things that he/she does in their free hours . Why late night ? Usually they have some concierge services that work only during the day and try to give you the standard advices . I also got some very good deals asking taxi drivers but the better ones were from bus drivers ! So , the advice is : ask someone local . Try something like : " what would you do if you want to ... "
I could not find a centralised list of all community shelters in Quebec . However , I could list some organisations that manage shelters and list some of those along <URL> , from Mont-Tremblant to the reserve Mastigouche . I list them in the order West-East . For each shelter , I try to list the following : | [ name ] | [ capacity ] | [ price per night per person ] | [ location ( optional ) ] | [ access from previous shelter ] | [ opening period ] | Sepaq The <URL> manages many provincial parks ( called national parks ) and the Trans-Canada trail crosses them in multiple places . The Sepaq operates shelters all over Quebec in its parks of Fjord-du-Saguenay , Gaspésie , Grands-Jardins , Mont-Mégantic , Mont-Orford , Mont-Tremblant , Monts-Valin and Yamaska . in Mont-Tremblant national park | Lac-Ernie | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac Monroe Park center : ~ 13km | open May-March | | Lac-des-Sables | 18 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-Ernie : 9.5 km | open May-March | | Le Lariou | 2 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Lac-des-Sables : ~ 10km | open May-March | | Le Geai-Bleu | 4 people | ~ 25 $ | access from Le Lariou : ~ 5km , from La Pimbinia Park - entrance : few km | open May-March | This is an alternative way to link Mont-Tremblant and St-Donnat , the Trans-Canada trail follows the Intercentre trail ( see below ) . Intercentre The <URL> links Lac-Laurier and St-Donat , and is a part of the trans-Canada trail . | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 14 ' 10 " , W 74 ° 23 ' 55.2 " | <URL> ( north of Lac-Supérieur ) | open year-round | | <URL> | 8 people | 22 $ | N 46 ° 15 ' 57.2 " , W 74 ° 21 ' 14.8 " | <URL> - open year-round | From the chemin Regimbald , it is possible to reach highway 329 and from there follow the chemin Wall to continue on the Mont-Ouareau trail . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) The <URL> manages two shelters , both along the Trans-Canada trail , one in the area of Mont-Ouareau : | <URL> | 12 people | 10-15 $ | near Lac Lemieux | <URL> | open year-round | The Trans-Canada trail is discontinued along the highway 125 , it starts farther on the Massif trail in the regional park of the Ouareau forest . Parc Régional de la Forêt Ouareau I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . They all appear on the <URL> | Pelletier | 8 people | 30,25 $ | near Lac à Pelletier - ~ 3km from hwy 125 , near Notre-Dame de la Merci | | Prud ' homme | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 2.5 km from Pelletier shelter | | La Loutre | 2 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Corbeau | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 2km from trans-Canada trail | | Toussaint | 8 people | 30,25 $ | 16.5 km from Prud ' homme shelter | | des Capucines | 6 people | 30,25 $ | 4km from Toussaint shelter | Then the trail continues without any shelter ( but some lean-to ) on the <URL> and the Swaggin trails . Parcs Régionaux Matawinie - Sentier National I could not find a mention of when the shelters are open , but it seems they are operated in summer and winter . | Swaggin | 20 people | 25 $ | the previous shelter on the trans-Canada trail is on the Massif trail , 38km away ( refuge des Capucines ) | | Lavigne | 8 people | 25 $ | <URL> | | Lac Boule | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac de la Boule - <URL> | | Bazinet | 8 people | 25 $ | near Lac des Iles - <URL> | The trans-Canada trail continues on several successive trails ( Ours , Matawinie , Nymphes , Mistikush ) without any appareent shelter on the way ( see the <URL> ) . FQMarche ( Quebec Federation of Hiking ) A second shelter managed by the FQMarche is at the end of Mistikush trail : | <URL> | 6 people | 10-15 $ | near Morin Creek , <URL> , <URL> | open in summer ( May 17 to Sep 1st ) | Then the Trans-Canada trail arrives in the <URL> , with no shelter open to single-person reservation . This list of shelters along the Trans-Canada trail in Quebec is definitely incomplete as the trail is particularly long ( 1100km ) but I hope to enrich it with time . SIA-IAT ( International Appalachian Trail ) The <URL> group manages a set of shelters , not along the trans-Canada trail but still worth noting . They publish <URL> . I do not list them as they are not along the Trans-Canada trail but along the Quebec section of the International Appalachian Trail .
<URL> offer a 500MB allowance for $ 4.99 or a 1GB allowance for $ 9.99 . See <URL> for details .
This answer refers not only to the couchsurfing.org site , but to the plethora of other sites that provide the same function . Among these are gumtree.com and london.craigslist.co.uk and jewgether.org Other sites will undoubtedly join the social phemomenon first uncovered by couchsurfing.org . There is no need for a grand opus in such matters , but it is important to identify yourself and provide at least some background information about you and the purpose of your journey . And you need to be specific about your contemplated over night stays ... You can use this as a template ... Hello == appropriate salutation == , I am contacting you because you are identified on == web site == as a couch-surfing host in == name of city == . I expect to be in == name of city == on == arrival date == and remain for == number of days == , hence this email . Briefly , I am == your nationality = , == age == , == gender == , == occupation == and visiting == name of city == because == why you are there == and will need a place to stay . Would you please let me know if these dates are available via return email . Specifically , I would arrive at your location at == time and date == , and these are my inclusive dates : == list of overnights == . Kind regards , == Your full name == Naturally , the ASL part is optional , but recommended in order to avoid any awkward situations upon arrival . Overall , keep it brief , professional and to the point . Be sure that the host understands all of your contemplated over night stays . When you get a reply , you can then begin negotiating rates and other matters if needed . NOTE : I will check out fixing the tag so that it refers to the broader social phenomenon of hospitality rather than a proprietary site .
The <URL> is pretty central and offers a view from 168.60 m over the city . Just make sure you go there when it 's clear , and not foggy/rainy outside .
end question
start question
Is there an aircraft hostel in Canada or USA ?
OK , some time , so I 've found the three best candidates that I can , although not all are entire planes ... or in planes ... First up , we have the <URL> - you can rent a home , which comes WITH a plane and pool ! <URL> This is a plane that was owned by Howard Hughes , now converted into ... a house boat . The website is horrific , but the photos are really interesting . Finally , some have their Malibu Beach House , but here we have the <URL> . About 4.5 million parts recycled from an old Boeing 747 were re-purposed to create this environmentally sustainable home , and the front portion of the fuselage and the upper first class cabin deck are used to shelter the guest house . As for a hostel , no , sorry , no luck so far aside from the one in Stockholm , but will keep looking !
You best option is to stay at the camping of Rock Werchter ( camping tickets should be bought separately , since they are not included in you combi ticket ) . Camping &amp; food You 'll most likely arrive at Leuven station by train . There are a lot of free buses from Leuven , which brings you near the campings . You could best buy some cheap food in a supermarket in Leuven or at a small supermarket at the camping itself ( which is more expensive ) . You could also bring your own travel cooking gear . Fun &amp; keep stuff safe Personally , I think hanging out at the camping is the most fun of festivals . Perhaps there are lockers , but I 've never used them . Just do n't bring super expensive stuff I would say , because there is always a risk of things getting stolen , although normally you should be safe .
<URL> , and there wo n't be any between Bangkok and HCMC anytime soon , because there are several gaps in the network : <URL> ( courtesy Classical geographer on <URL> ) I 'm not aware of any direct Bangkok-HCMC bus services , but you can travel this with a single transfer in Phnom Penh , Cambodia . That said , I would n't recommend this if your goal is to " sit back and relax " : the Cambodian land borders are a notorious hassle to get though ( not dangerous , just lots of touts and scams ) and the quality of the roads ( and driving ! ) also leaves quite a bit to be desired . A direct flight on Air Asia &amp; competitors , booked well in advance , is almost certainly both the fastest and the cheapest way , especially when you take into account that you 'll no longer need a Cambodian visa ( US$ 35 for most nationalities ) . That said , Angkor Wat ( definitely ) and Phnom Penh ( maybe ) are both worth seeing , so you 'll need to decide what 's more important for you .
Unfortunately there 's nowhere near enough information here to be able to give a full answer for your specific situation . Over the past few years the travel situation from the US to Cuba has changed , and there are now completely legal ways to visit Cuba as an American citizen , mainly under the " People-to-People " program which allows for " Purposeful Travel " to Cuba . The announcement of this program is available on the <URL> , although the exact details of the program have varied a little since then . A number of different travel companies and organizations are offering trips under this program , ranging from <URL> and the <URL> , down to individual travel agencies . Google is your best bet for finding such tours , but be sure to make sure that the organizer is licensed under the " People-to-people " program . There have also always been exceptions to the rules for some categories of visitors , which includes journalists ( although specific approval is required ) . Realistically if you 're look at something commercial , then the best advise would be to seek legal advice . What you 're asking can definitely be done , but if you do it wrong then you could find yourself in hot water both in the US as well as in Cuba .
Ottawa we can pretty safely drop from the list -- as a planned city populated mostly by government bureaucrats , it 's got a few good museums but very little else to interest the casual visitor , and it 's quite hard to get around without a car . Montreal vs Toronto is a more interesting showdown . Personally , I 'd cast my vote for Montreal : it feels a bit smaller and more approachable , with an incredibly vibrant cultural scene , and the presence of French everywhere gives it quite a unique flavor for a North American city . However , if you 're keen on something that 's less " European " and more like New York or Chicago , then Toronto may fit the bill better . All that said , my favorite big city in Canada is actually Vancouver , which also has the most scenic location by a long shot and arguably the best climate as well .
If you are a US citizen , you can indeed cross into Canada <URL> . For safety reasons , you may want to bring the original birth certificate , or at least a certified copy . If you are not a US ( or Canadian ) citizen or permanent resident , you can not enter Canada without passport : If you are a citizen of the United States , you do not need a passport to enter Canada . However , you should carry proof of your citizenship , such as a birth certificate , certificate of citizenship or naturalization , as well as photo identification . If you are a permanent resident of Canada or the U.S , you should bring your Permanent Resident Card with you . However , depending on how you 're travelling , you may have difficulties re-entering the US without a passport ! <URL> : When returning to the United States from Canada , it is very important to note that all U.S. citizens are required to present a valid U.S. passport to enter or re-enter the United States via air . For entry into the United States via land and sea borders , U.S. citizens must present either a U.S. passport , passport card , NEXUS card , Enhanced Drivers License , or other Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative ( WHTI ) - compliant document . The only exception to this requirement is for U.S. citizens under the age of 16 ( or under 19 , if traveling with a school , religious , or other youth group ) who need only present a birth certificate ( original , photocopy or certified copy ) , Consular Report of Birth Abroad , or naturalization certificate . So if your passport is delayed , make sure it arrives at your place in Canada on time .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
No , you can not . This information is not available to the public nor is it obtainable from the airline ( s ) without some court order . I would imagine it is near impossible for even normal law enforcement to get it as there is no " show me anyone who has a flight booked on this date " query possible ( as far as I know ) , since this information is distributed between the global GDS systems . I would not put it beyond the reach of some clandestine intelligence organization though . Even when law enforcement wants to know if someone has booked a flight , they usually have their name and another variable - such as a credit card or bank information against which to check ; and then they work the way back to the airline . However , I can imagine a scenario at a local airport where there are a handful of airlines , that law enforcement can compel them to reveal their bookings for that day - but that would have to be under court order and not without serious implications . For the boarding pass , it gets even more difficult . Just keep the surprise a surprise . :) If you really do want to get to know this information ; it is highly likely your boss used a travel agent to book these tickets ( as group bookings are commonly done through agents - because online sites generally have a limit on the number of tickets ; and agents usually give better discounts on such packages ) . So , I would do some low-tech sleuthing and try to find out which travel agency the company uses . Chances are high it was the same one that was used last time .
Processed pepperoni This is a bit unclear , one paragraph says they 're prohibited and another says canned and unopened pork products are ok . I think you should be careful with this one and leave the pepperoni unopened . Fresh ( chilled or frozen ) , dried , cured , and fully cooked meat is generally prohibited from most countries . [ ... ] Pork should be commercially canned and labeled in unopened containers Unlabelled fruit They 'll need to inspect them even if they were labelled , and unless you can prove they were grown in Canada , they will most probably be confiscated . Fruits and vegetables grown in Canada are generally admissible , if they have labels identifying them as products of Canada . Fruits and vegetables merely purchased in Canada are not necessarily admissible For fruits grown elsewhere in the Americas , you can check the <URL> database . You 'll notice there 's no US in the dropdown , I would be careful with US imported produce , I 've seen Florida oranges confiscated at the border but then again they might let them in . As for packaged fruits as opposed to raw ones , once more it depends where it was processed . <URL> guideline ( table 3.123 ) has all the information . Hard boiled eggs Those should be ok as Exotic Newcastle Disease seems to be <URL> in Canada and few <URL> of HPAI were reported . Eggs and egg products from Exotic Newcastle Disease ( END ) and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza ( HPAI ) affected regions , including cooked eggs , if not accompanied by a USDA Veterinary Service import permit remain prohibited regardless if those items are for personal consumption .
Unfortunately there is no pass at the moment . RoutPass disappeared after 2012 . Since it was offered several bus companies in the network were taken over by multi-national transportation companies , services have since been , and continue to be , restructured and moved between operators especially in Quebec and the Maratimes . At <URL> we 're building a search engine covering several companies in the region , it might help you find who 's currently operating and find the travel days with the lowest price .
Flights to Puerto Rico are considered domestic flights , and US Citizens do not need a passport to travel between the US and any US territories . However , foreign citizens do need a passport to travel between the two , ( see <URL> ) so I ca n't say for certain how a trip like that will affect your Green Card eligibility . Your best bet is to check with an immigration official .
This mean that at LAX ; perhaps due to customs or other security restrictions - the airline can not accept baggage to be delivered directly to/from passengers ( at the gate ) and it has to go through customs/clearance . So you 'll have to check it in and surrender the stroller at the check-in ; and if arriving at LAX receive it at customs . I would highly recommend getting it wrapped with plastic as ( from personal experience ) strollers have many extremities that can easily be popped off/removed/broken during the rigours of flight . I have seen this happen before ( not at LAX and not with Aeroflot ) . Normally if a flight is full the gate agent will ask passengers to volunteer to have their carryons put in the cargo hold ( as there may not be enough room in the cabin ) . Some people also volunteer their bags for this service just to avoid having to lug them around . I was such a person - I had two bags and only needed one during the flight and I approached the staff at the counter ; here is what I was told : " Sorry sir , we are not authorized to accept baggage airside ; you can ask the cabin crew to store your luggage in a different bin away from your seat . " Sometimes , this may be due to the unique way airports are operated - the ground handling staff for this flight may not be allowed to offload at airside ( or be allowed on the jetway ) or ... any number of reasons . You can ask Aeroflot for the reason but other than to satisfy your curiousity ; but if you want to have a temporary stroller in the terminal , it might be better to ask at LAX if there is such a service .
According to the <URL> and to <URL> there are lockers in Koyasan station but not in Gokurakubashi . Anyway , if I remember correctly , you have to take the Nankai line from Osaka Namba station to Gokurakubashi and again you will have to change at the same station on your way back to Kyoto so , probably , you are more likely to find a locker at the Namba station on a busy day .
There 's an Airbud interpretation of laws that goes along the lines of " There 's no rule that says a dog ca n't play football " . Or in <URL> : There 's a great Canadian article on it on <URL> , where it comes down to being ' murky ' . They point out the NYC rule , as well as when a landlord says you ca n't let your place out , or finds out you are and can kick you out . In the end one of their renters gave a quote which sums it up : " To have a great experience , sometimes you have to take a chance , " says Clarke . " Staying at a Marriott is like a bank account : low return , but your investment is safe . Airbnb is like a risky stock : Things can go wrong , but you can also win big . " Of course , that 's as a guest . Fortunately , if you 're a guest , you 're probably not the one in hot water if it is n't allowed . It 'd be like a regular hotel forgetting to renew their license . However , consider ... As someone letting out their room , it depends if you own it . If you yourself are a renter , one would want to check your letting agreement with your landlord . Mine have had specific clauses saying guests staying longer than x days need to be verified , and no subletting is allowed . If you really wanted to be sure , check with your landlord as well . He 's getting his rent , and as long as you 're not wrecking , many would be ok with it . Some obviously wo n't , however . And that 's where the problem lies . IF they do get into trouble or it turns out to be banned by their lease , you may find yourself getting turfed out , or turn up in town only to find you have nowhere to stay . However , the majority of people are reporting great experiences with it . I 'll be using it when I visit Australia in November .
The " Express " here is for express buses , which serve parts of the " outer " boroughs that are not well served by subways . These buses have a higher fare . Express trains in the subway system do not have a higher fare . Your fare card is checked when you swipe it in the turnstile to enter the system . Once you 're in , you 're in . You can stay as long as you like and ride as many trains ( express or otherwise ) as you like . Why did n't you just ask someone on the platform ? You would have learned very quickly that you could take the express trains .
There is such a scheme . However , it does n't yet cover the city centre , which is why you ca n't ( yet ) find any docking stations in the main tourist areas The scheme is called <URL> , and is run in conjunction with the county council . Currently , all the docking stations are " up the hill " , in and around Headington . They 're around Oxford Brookes university , the hospitals and the like . A map of the stations can be found on the <URL> There 's currently no announced date for when the scheme may extend down the hill and into the main tourist areas in the city centre .
I use Boingo for accessing private wifi at airports and cafes that you would otherwise have to pay for . It is about $ 10 per month and works in many countries including Latvia . I did a search for hotspots at <URL> and they seems to mostly be in Riga . So if you are staying there great , but if you are going out in the countryside not great . If you want cell phone data then I have just bought local USB modem device for about $ 50 and SIM card with local data plan . I have done this in Boliva , Paraguay and Chile , have n't tried in Latvia but I assume they have them there too . Finally when I travel in less developed countries there are always lots of internet cafes and they will often let you connect your laptop direct to their internet via a cable if you pay them a small fee . This gives great speed and cost of about $ 1 per hour . I am not sure where Latvia is on the internet development scale so you will have to scope this idea out on the ground .
The astronomical spring ( Northern Hemisphere ) 2014 begins on March 20 and ends on June 20 , that includes USA .
I do n't have any experience on the Eastern side of the Himalaya , but I did some travelling on the Western side in China , in areas with high numbers of Tibetan people . As usually I did not plan or book anything but mostly stayed in hotels in towns , but a few times I also just walked in the mountains through some villages and when I asked people for a place to sleep , they more often than not offered me a room in their house . Some times I just stayed one night , but in a few cases also for a few days , but never for a month . In most cases nobody in the house spoke any English , and I did n't even know what language they spoke , usually not Mandarin . So regardless the problems with communication , I had a great time with the families , I will always remember the meals with a big family in a huge beautiful Tibetan kitchen . It was super cheap too , a quarter of what I would pay for a room in a cheap hotel in the next town and the food was included as well . I sometimes feel that the ' families ' that offer home-stays through commercial agencies are in there for the money and they are very used to having foreigners in their house . It 's a business for them . The people I stayed with were super interested in me , it 's a shame we could n't talk to each other , but even just showing photos or maps was fun . And you can explain a lot with your hands . Your hosts may also know other people in the next village and can hook you up with someone where you could stay a bit longer . If you ' book ' ahead and then you do n't like the place , you still may stay just because you already paid for it . I 'm sure this way of travelling is not for everybody , but it is an option in many rural areas .
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
end question
start question
What are " 500 Mile Upgrades " ?
As to the reason for the name , from the <URL> : Each upgrade is valid for 500 miles of travel . Each flight segment requires at least one upgrade . Thus , if you wish to upgrade your seat on a flight which is 1500 miles long , you would need to use three of these 500-mile upgrades .
Different airports use different techniques , choosing from among : background checks for employees requiring cargo and airside staff to pass through security checkpoints ( like the ones for passengers ) as they enter the airport ( 100 % of staff in Europe , random checks in North America ) never leaving anyone alone with an aircraft or in the cargo bay having different people load things onto the little trucks and empty the little trucks onto the plane not telling employees much about which plane is which , where they are going , and which flights they will be loading having supervisors look things over before the door closes limiting the size of bags ( lunches etc ) staff can bring in , and keeping those bags separate from the rooms with tarmac access security cameras that are monitored so things like loading a big bag into a vehicle will be noticed cockpit crew , cabin crew , security crew and ground crew all perform " security checks and searches " prior to takeoff ( may vary by airline ; customs may also search for contraband , which could reveal other badness . ) And probably much more that has n't been mentioned in the news . And as corroboration , an explosion that can be traced back to an inside job is practically unheard of . Luggage bombs worked for a while , but cargo handler bombs appear not to be a thing . Relax as much as you can , and enjoy your flight .
California , USA is one place where you see these posted rates . I believe this is to comply with <URL> : ( a ) Every keeper of a hotel , inn , boardinghouse or lodginghouse , shall post in a conspicuous place in the office or public room , and in every bedroom of said hotel , boardinghouse , inn , or lodginghouse , a printed copy of this section , and a statement of rate or range of rates by the day for lodging . ( b ) No charge or sum shall be collected or received for any greater sum than is specified in subdivision ( a ) . For any violation of this subdivision , the offender shall forfeit to the injured party one hundred dollars ( $ 100 ) or three times the amount of the sum charged in excess of what he is entitled to , whichever is greater . There shall be no forfeiture under this subdivision unless notice be given of the overcharge to such keeper within 30 days after payment of such charges and such keeper shall fail or refuse to make proper adjustment of such overcharge . I assume the intention was to prevent things like price gouging for distressed travelers , special events , or customers the management sees as undesirable ( e.g. racism ) . However , as you point out , hotels often set this rate very high , so that they can charge high rates when they want , and claim everyone else is getting a discount . Given this , I 'm not sure why they stop at prices that are 3-5 times the actual rates ; why not post a rate of a million dollars per night , and have complete freedom ? There may be some additional regulations that I do n't know about .
There are 3 major carriers in Argentina Claro , Movistar and Personal All three offer prepaid cards you can buy on literally hundred of shops around the city ( I am not sure were in Buenos Aires you are going , but if you are traveling to Capital Federal , then you will find shops on the streets , on every shopping mall , and big movie complex . There are some impromptu sidewalk shops across big avenues , but the discount you will get with them is not worth it ) . The first thing they will sell you is the chip ( SIM ) which is around $ 30 ( $ 6 USD ) . Once the number is activated , which is instantly , you can charge your new number on any kiosk around the city . You will see signs with a legend like ( " Cargamos Personal/Movistar/Claro " ) . You will be asked for your number and the amount you want to charge and they will send you the credit instantly.You should receive an SMS confirmation with your new credit . You will have to pay with cash on most of the Kiosks . If you want to use a CC go to a branded store or use the online option at the official website for the carrier . <URL> / <URL> / <URL> Make sure to ask the seller for current " deals " . Quite often you will find 2x1 on all your credit ( You will get $ 200 for $ 100 ) or unlimited SMS for 1 day , or free 500 SMS . All three companies currently offer unlimited 3G for $ 1 peso a day ( $ 0.20 USD ) . For Claro and Movistar ( and probably Personal ) you have free calls for clients of the same company . Prices will vary A LOT depending on your plan . Make sure to ask the person selling you the chip which one is more convenient . In Capital Federal is quite easy to find free WiFi . Almost every coffe shop , fast food chain or shopping mall will have open and free spots . Finally if you are visiting Argentina with United States Dollars or Euros remember there is a huge differente between the official price and the paralel valuation . $ 1USD can either be $ 4.90 pesos or $ 7.50 pesos depending which market you trade . Hope it helps !
I am not sure where you have found the types of tickets you have listed but the <URL> lists 4 different ones . Main Deck - 86th Floor general admission ( lines and all ) Main Deck Express - 86th Floor and you bypass the general admission line . Main Deck + Top Deck - 86th Floor + 102nd Floor observation decks in general admission line Main Deck + Top Deck Express - same as above with preferential treatment for the elevators . You can also get NY City Pass which will get you Main Deck Ticket included in it . But as @Flimzy pointed in the comment the <URL> is a better observation deck to visit because it does n't have <URL> around the deck like the Empire State building .
My personal experience has been that it 's best to get a SIM card for each country I travel in . Local providers almost always have the best deals , and buying SIM cards is relatively inexpensive . Especially in Asian countries ( where I have more travel experience ) you can easily pick up SIM cards at shopping kiosks almost anywhere , and the rates are really very cheap compared to where I live ( New Zealand ) . Data roaming from international providers is also very expensive ; as an example with my New Zealand cellphone provider in China I would pay $ US25 + a megabyte , whereas buying a local SIM card it cost me $ US8 for 250 megabytes .
From <URL> : Nearest capital cities The closest capital cities of two sovereign countries are Vatican City , Vatican , and Rome , Italy , one of which is inside the other ( the distance between the middle points , St. Peter 's Square/Piazza Venezia is about 2 km ) . The two second closest capital cities between two sovereign countries are Kinshasa , Democratic Republic of the Congo , and Brazzaville , Republic of the Congo , which are about 1.6 km ( 0.99 mi ) apart , one upstream from the other on different banks of the Congo River ( the distance between the middle points is about 10 km ) . Vienna and Bratislava , sometimes erroneously considered the two closest capitals , are 55 km ( 34 mi ) apart .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
Dining cars are present on almost every long-distance train . They offer rather good food ( although I have little experience to compare it to European trains ) , though I would not expect much delicacies , just a good food of a middle-range city restaurant . Specifically for Baikal fish , I doubt it , except probably when you travel near Baikal itself . In addition to restaurant cars you can also buy basic snacks from a conductor at your car , and sometimes a waiter from a restaurant car would go through the train offering snacks to passengers . At the same time , as many have mentioned here , on every station where the train stops for at least 20 minutes1 , there usually will be locals selling food to you right from the platform . The quality of that food varies a lot ( with no medical control etc. ) , but it is indeed a chance to try a good local food . I have never traveled near Baikal , but I 've been once in Karelia , and a great choice of cooked ( smoked etc. ) fish was available . However , I think this might depend on a season . Apart from these local specialties , locals will be selling mostly basic food appealing for low-class travelers trying to eat as cheap as possible . Sometimes these locals will even buy a ticket from one station to a neighbor one and walk through train offering their products , so you might even not need to walk out . Also note that you can buy tickets with meals included , but this usually starts from 2nd class . On a short trip ( 1 night and shorter ) this will be just several snacks and some drink , but on longer trains they can bring some basic hot food from the dining car directly to your compartment . When booking a ticket , look for label like " У2 " in the carriage class field . " У " stands for " услуги " ( " services " -- meals , and also includes a few newspapers etc. ) , while the number stands for the number of meals included . The boilers are available in every sleeping car , except for some exceptional circumstances such as boiler malfunctioning or running out of water . Not that these are unheard of , but rather rare , and most probable it will be OK to go to another carriage and use their boiler in such a case . The water quality might be not the best , and personally I dislike it and try to avoid , but many people do drink it . The biggest concern is not sanitary problems , but just some metallic smell etc. . Also a bigger problem might be lack of cold ( well , room-temperature ) drinking water ; you may find that boiling water is the only drinkable water you can get . It is a good idea to have a bottle or two of drinking water with you . Also note that there are different train types in Russia . The best are so-called " firmenny " trains ( фирменный поезд ) , or the " premium " ( " премиум " ) introduced several years ago . They have all the facilities ( from restaurant cars to 3rd class carriages and toilets ) much better than other trains , but the tickets are also more expensive for the same class . At the other end , during high season ( summer ) you might see temporary trains assigned for just a couple of months . They are usually compiled of different old carriages and may have many different problems ; I even am not quite sure whether they have a dining car at all . A rough rule of thumb is the less is the official designated number of train/route ( you see it when you book the tickets ) , the better is the train : trains from 1 to approx . 150 are firmenny trains , while those temporary trains are usually assigned numbers at about 800 and above . Intermediate numbers and trains also exist . 1 Such stations are usually every several hours of train trip . And yes , even if the train comes to the station in dead night , some locals still probably will be there .
Not to worry , a lot of people there speak English , and it 's very easy to navigate , with trains to most out-side-of-center featured attractions , and those in the center are all easily walkable . <URL> has a list of the best things to see and do . From personal experience after two trips there , Tivoli themepark is well worth a visit . It 's more old-school and not as tourist-trappy as Disney or Universal , and is right next to the Central station , so easy to get to . A water boat tour is well worth a trip , you get to see a lot of the city from one of those , and it 's very relaxing . The mermaid is worth the photo op , if she 's there - she was away on display last year . The palace is the royal residence and looks amazing . As are many of the buildings in the center - the architecture is a boon for those keen on stuff like that . For me it was just great photo opportunities :) For fun you can take a train across the ocean ( ! ) to Malmo , Sweden . It doens ' t take long , and the ride is quite an experience . If you like shopping , Strøget is the longest pedestrian street in all of Europe , at 1.1 km , and is the top shopping area . There are also a variety of flea markets and stalls all over the place , especially in the docklands . Also if you 're a foodie , there are some fantastic restaurants , whether on a budget or willing to splurge on the top places . Enjoy it !
The authoritative answer is at <URL> , but I 'll summarize for posterity . Whoever you 're staying with , be it hotel or apartment , is supposed to take care of registering you . They can take care of the registration at any police station or post office , you do not need to be present . When it 's done , they 'll get a piece of paper for you that confirms registration , and all is good . If you do not register , and you 're stopped by police , and it 's been over seven working days since you arrived in Russia , you 'll be fined ( & euro ; 50-100 ) . In theory , you can even be deported and blacklisted for returning for 5 years , but this is very unlikely . In your case , I 'd get in touch with whoever is renting you the apartment and ensure they sort it out , the magic word is propiska ( registration ) . It 's in their best interest to do so as well , since they can also get fined even more heavily for having unregistered foreigners staying with them .
In the first step you would take the email you received to the police and tell them your story . If the police in your country are looking for someone and you provide them with a good reason to believe an absconded person is in France , they will know what to do . There is a global computer network connecting police departments in participating countries ; and if they think it 's appropriate they will use it . Others have mentioned contacting your consulate in France . It 's a good idea also , but note that the hospital would have notified either the police or consulate as a matter of procedure .
According to <URL> : Obtaining systemwide upgrades When you qualify or re-qualify for AAdvantage ® Executive Platinum status : And that 's it , as far as anything a typical frequent flyer can aim for in a given program year . Million Miler You get additional SWUs ( previously known as eVIPs or VIPOWs ) in the <URL> program , four for every million base miles after the first million . Thus , you get four at 2,000,000 miles , then another four at 3,000,000 , and so on . Gift SWUs can be gifted from another AAdvantage account . If you have a friend or colleague who , for example , has expiring SWUs they will not be able to use , you can ask them to have it applied to an upcoming trip of yours . There are several things to note : You must have actually booked a trip , as the SWU is applied to a particular PNR . The SWU is not transferred to your account ; it remains in the original account and is simply applied to your itinerary . The expiration date on the SWU is not reset . Bartering , selling , or trading the SWU for any other consideration is against the AAdvantage Terms and Conditions . There are <URL> people have attempted to use to sell benefits , and the airlines have no tolerance for any of them . Buying/bartering As I just said , the SWU is voided if sold or traded for cash or any other consideration -- but there 's more . AAdvantage is a private program administered by American Airlines , and so it is the judgment of American Airlines that determines whether or not you have broken the rules . They can not only cancel the cert but take away all your other miles and status , nullify your MM progress , or close your account and ban you for life from the program altogether . The airlines do monitor eBay , Craigslist , and other sites and investigate transactions they find suspicious . AA specifically was involved in the wholesale shutdown and revamping of the <URL> at FlyerTalk over these issues , and American Airlines items remain banned there completely . Customer service You 'll find anecdotal reports on the Internet of high value customers being given a SWU as a customer service gesture in some extreme cases , like someone in paid international first class being delayed two days and then downgraded to a middle seat in economy . It is likely that such a SWU would be inscribed on dragon skin , placed in a case made of unicorn horn , and delivered by a sasquatch wearing a coat of angel feathers . As you note , the SWU is an extremely valuable benefit , and an expensive one for AA . They have no reason to make it easy to obtain -- otherwise , they would essentially be giving away their most profitable seats , and the most desirable benefit offered to their most loyal customers .
What you 're describing is called an " Open Jaw " ticket , and there 's a very simple rule for determining if it applies or not . Lets say you 're flying A-B and then C-A . There 's 3 distances involved here - A-B , B-C ( ie , the overland segment ) and C-A . For a ticket to be a valid " open jaw " , the distance B-C needs to be shorter than both A-B and C-A . eg , SFO-STL ( 1735 miles ) and ORD-SFO ( 1846 miles ) is a valid open jaw as the distance between the two cities is 258 miles , which is less than both of the flown legs . SFO-LAS ( 414 miles ) and DEN-SFO ( 967 miles ) is NOT a valid open jaw routing , as the distance between LAS and DEN is 628 miles , which is greater than one of the flown legs . For US domestic flights , it often does n't matter if it 's a valid open jaw or not . Many domestic flights are sold on a " one-way " basis , so it does n't matter if your flights are a valid open jaw or not - or even if they are purchased on the same ticket or not - they will cost the same as in effect you 're just paying for 2 one-way fares . Some fares do specify that they are only available for return or open-jaw , and that 's when these rules do come into play . For international flights , open jaw can make a huge difference to fares , as most cheap fares are not available one-way , they are only available as part of a return or open jaw ticket .
If the airline can make any claim of weather , traffic , or any sort of delay out of their control , then you have <URL> . Sometimes they will offer hotel vouchers for overnight delays , but in my experience this is almost exclusively when it is due to mechanical problems with their equipment . Even if the delays are due to problems on their end , there is no regulation requiring them to compensate you . The only time you are due compensation is when you are bumped from a flight for overbooking . However , sometimes airlines may be willing to endorse transfers to other airlines , particularly in the case of flight cancellations . This is , however , entirely at their discretion . If they are not willing to work with you , there could actually be additional charges for cancellations .
The only easy way to attain AA status is to have it gifted to you , either by the company or by another elite . Still , there are some avenues to shorten the climb . <URL> allow Executive Platinum members who earn 125,000 EQMs to gift AAdvantage Gold status to a friend for one year . A company enrolled in <URL> can redeem 2,400 points ( equivalent to $ 24,000 in spending ) to give Gold status to an employee . AA does not generally <URL> except some cases negotiated through corporate travel departments ; however , earlier this year they pounced on problems at United to poach some upper tier Premiers with matches . <URL> -- Each calendar year when you reach $ 40,000 in spending on purchases , you will earn 10,000 EQMs . This card is also sometimes promoted with a one-time signup bonus of 5,000 EQMs for new cardholders . Completing a <URL> is usually the easiest way to attain status quickly if you have travel already scheduled , particularly if in a premium cabin as the challenge is based on EQPs , not EQMs . Note that the challenge is only offered to attain a status , not to maintain it . AA periodically runs <URL> . If you 're a true mover-and-shaker , someone who is giving AA hundreds of thousands of dollars of business over the years in full fares , you may be invited to the <URL> program . Also , while the <URL> prepaid card no longer comes with status , it does come with Admirals Club membership and priority checkin/screening/boarding .
Lightweight synthetic hiking trousers are designed to allow a comfortable range of motion and to wick away sweat , while still offering some protection against the sun and minor scratches . Even if not hiking in the back country , they have features that make them excellent travel garments , such as multiple deep mesh pockets where you can store your map , camera , and so on . Unlike street clothes , these will usually provide a means to seal them such as Velcro or a zipper , providing additional protection against pickpockets as well as ordinary loss . thin synthetic fabric construction , for some water resistance and comfortable stretching . Many come with treatments for additional protection against UV radiation . They can be impregnated with <URL> to repel insects . Perhaps more importantly , they can be washed with bar soap in a hostel sink , and in warm weather will dry in just a few minutes . Cotton laundry is much bulkier and in humid conditions may still be damp after drying overnight . built-in belt or straps , negating the need to carry a belt Some have side zippers to allow for faster changing , and ankle zippers for easier shoe/sock changing . Some have reflective stripes which are invisible in daylight but shine brightly in headlights for better visibility after dark . Most are polyester or nylon twill , and around where I live in the U.S. , they sell for around the same price as a pair of jeans ( $ 50 ) , though you can find them on closeout for far less from the major outdoors retailers . There are a variety of styles and colors , as you can see from these links to several major US retailers : <URL> <URL> <URL> Jeans , it must be said , are some of the worst clothes for extended physical activity . Denim absorbs moisture readily , becoming heavy and clammy . They hold moisture against the skin leading to chafing and blisters , as you noted . They are slow to dry , and as every Boy Scout knows , " cotton kills " in the wilderness in anything except the daytime desert . When I will be doing anything more than walking from a hotel room to a convention center on a trip , the only cotton clothes I bring are some T-shirts . Everything else -- socks , underwear , jackets , etc. -- is at least a synthetic blend , particularly when the weather will be warm or cool . Shorts can work for some people in some situations , but you expose yourself to sun and to insects , and some people chafe their inner thighs after extended walking in shorts . Moreover , they are not culturally appropriate in much of the world ; you could be denied admission to royal facilities and religious sites , at the least .
It 's complicated , but as always , <URL> . The short version is that in the vast majority of cases , the baby will inherit one or more citizenships from its parents through <URL> , and nothing more . If the baby is born within the territorial limits of a country that applies <URL> , including flying overheard and within nautical limits , the baby may be eligible for citizenship of that country as well . If the baby 's parents are of unknown citizenship , stateless or citizens of countries that do n't do jus sanguinis at all ( not sure any exist ? ) , and they ca n't get any citizenships via jus soli ( eg . birth occurred in international waters ) , the <URL> will kick in : Article 3 For the purpose of determining the obligations of contracting states under this convention , birth on a ship or aircraft shall amount to birth in the territory of the State that gives its flag to that ship or aircraft . So the birth will be treated as if it occurred in the country that registered the plane or ship . This does n't mean the baby automatically gets that country 's citizenship , but the Convention aims to ensure that if they ca n't get anything else , they 'll get this as a fallback . Since not all countries have signed the Convention , and not all countries that signed it have enacted it in law or in practice , it 's still possible to fall through the gaps . Post any interesting cases in the comments ;)
I visited last year . My pure understanding of the law there obviously is n't perfect as an outsider , but the following of the ' law ' seemed very rough , women would wear a covering , but sometimes only over the bob of a pony-tail , for example . However , if in a place of business , eg a hotel or restaurant , you 'd regularly see proprietors or staff quickly address a woman who had had her hijab slip back or off a bit too far , usually apologetically - they did n't want to get into trouble themselves . There was a variety - you 'd see headscarves , niqabs and hijabs , but the basic rule seemed to be - cover most of your hair , or get told off . This was in public , however , in the privacy of people 's houses , these rules seemed to vanish .
I would recommend summer . The weather is warm but not too hot , less than in Italy or Japan . See this minimum/maximum graph in <URL> ( in Celsius , 25 ° C = 77 ° F ) : During summer touristic places are open everywhere , even in the South , the warmer the better . During summer people working in Paris leave for the South , but Paris still has a lot of activities , even more than during other seasons . Most festivals happen during summer , especially countryside ones ( <URL> ) . Other seasons can be rainy but summer usually is not . See the low rain stats during July/August :
end question
start question
What is the safest and cheapest way to see Komodo island , leaving from and returning to Bali ?
Your options Fly : reasonable price , fast , safe , &amp; reliable . Do book at least a couple of weeks before if you come in the high season . You can fly from Denpasar ( Bali ) , but also from Mataram ( Lombok ) I believe . Check with <URL> . Sail : more expensive , slower ( at least 2 days &amp; 2 nights ) , more unreliable &amp; more unsafe compared to flying . But there are some very cool stops on the way , &amp; the sailing trips always includes stops at Komodo &amp; Rinca islands . Same thing , try to book in advance , a week or 2 should be fine . Read more on <URL> Bus &amp; ferry : cheap price , slow ( 36h ) , unreliable , boring , tiring , &amp; moderately safe ( sailing is probably more unsafe ) . Read more <URL> Fly &amp; bus &amp; ferry - option 1 : fly from Denpasar to Bima with LionAir , and then carry on with bus &amp; ferry . See also <URL> Fly &amp; bus &amp; ferry - option 2 : fly from Mataram to Sumbawa Besar with LionAir , and then carry on with bus &amp; ferry . See also <URL> Fly &amp; bus : fly from Denpasar to Ende with LionAir , and then go by bus to Labuan Bajo ( takes about 12h ) . That 's only worth it if you already planned to visit mainland Flores I suppose , you can stop in Bajawa or Ruteng on the way . PNI ferry : super cheap ( 190 ' 000 IDR in 2015 ) , only every 2 weeks , slow ( 30ich hours ) , unreliable , totally unsafe , &amp; very uncomfortable ( packed ) . You probably do NOT want to do that ! If you do , you can buy ticket at the official ticket office in the harbour . Once in Labuan Bajo We predict a three day excursion What do you plan to do during those days ? Because Komodo national park is also very famous for its exceptional underwater life , so many people do a mix of land excursion ( 1 day for Komodo &amp; Rinca island ) to see the dragons &amp; underwater adventures by diving or snorkeling ( 1 to 3 days usually ) to see Manta Rays , turtles , sharks and more . Note that it 's worth diving in most sites , snorkelling is fine to see the Manta Rays &amp; nice corals but to see more you want to scuba dive . Having at least a PADI open water before going is best , otherwise you will only be allowed on shallow dive sites ( 10 or 12m deep I believe ) . You can be based in Labuan Bajo ( a bit of a ugly , smelly , &amp; dusty town ) &amp; go every day for an adventure . ie . one day exploring Komodo &amp; Rinca island , then 2 days diving . In 2015 , accommodation in LB starts at 100 ' 000 IDR for a double room , day excursion to Komodo &amp; Rinca costs somewhere like 800 ' 000 IDR ( , and a day dive ( 3 dives ) costs around 1.2 millions ( + 175 ' 000 IDR park entrance fee for each day ) . So a total close to 4 millions IDR ( 100 ' 000 x 3 + 800 ' 000 + 1 ' 200 ' 000 x 2 + 175 ' 000 x 2 ) . That 's a lot of money for Indonesian standards but you 'll have a blast . Another solution is to jump on a liveaboard trip ( 3 days should be enough but do longer if you want to dive more ) , also going to Komodo &amp; Rinca island but also doing all the dives . This would be more expensive , in 2015 prices start at 600 USD for 3 days ( around 8 millions IDR ) but it 'd definitely be a much more awesome experience . Apart from the fun/pleasure of being on a sailing boat in an incredible place , you 'd have the advantage of being able to dive early in the morning ( 7 or 8am ) to enjoy the best conditions &amp; have the opportunity to do night dives . Oh , and you wo n't miss a thing by not seeing much ( or anything ) of Labuan Bajo . Resources <URL> <URL> <URL>
There 's a pretty good <URL> , and from that , it looks like the bus is a viable option : Dublin Airport is only 16 miles away . The airport is serviced by buses ( 41 , 41a , 41b , 41c ) which will take you into the city centre where you can transfer onto a bus to Dun Laoghaire . There is also a service called AirCoach , this service is run on coaches and will deliver you in comfort and speed to selected locations around the city . The Dart is also accessible using the AerDart service which takes you by bus to Killester Dart station . The first <URL> on Sundays leaves from Dublin Airport at 07:15 . How early are you arriving ? From the centre you can then take one of these towards Dun Laoghaire : 7 , 7a , 8 , 45a , 46a , 59 , 75 , 111 Some of these buses start between 7-8 , some only at 09:30 , and some do n't run at all on Sundays . For more details , you could try the <URL> . Regarding the price : from the <URL> site it 's not immediately clear if you can continue on the same ticket when changing to the Dun Laoghaire bus , but looking at the <URL> , it 's going to be quite cheap in every case ( compared to a taxi which would cost around $ 50 ) .
The usual Aussie website for comparing flight prices is <URL> , but in my experience they do n't list everything . Also they charge a booking fee so use it to find a flight but you might get a better price on the same flight elsewhere once you have the details .
The ferry is essentially the only means of transport that was n't completely overloaded the last time . BART runs a few extra private buses , enough to accommodate 1 % of the 400,000 daily riders . And it 's only in the commute direction . Unfortunately , the Transbay tube is so efficient and so fast that there are n't a lot of good options from other transit providers . Perhaps the best option if the ferry is n't convenient is the " slug lines , " also known as <URL> . People who are traveling solo take on a few extra passengers to get the discount on the Bay Bridge . Obviously , you have to sit in traffic on the bridge , but the price is right . It sounds sketchy but is apparently very safe . As far as getting to the airport , you 're basically out of luck . You can take <URL> from <URL> and get off at the Millbrae station . That still leaves you 2.5 miles from the airport , but you should be able to get a cab from there , or walk if you 're up for it ( the bayfront area by the airport is pretty nice to walk along , but getting there is a slog from the Caltrain station ) . Also , Caltrain does n't run as often or as early as BART . Rental cars are n't cheap , but it may be worth making a refundable reservation in case you need it , and canceling before the deadline if the strike is called off .
It seems <URL> is operating a bus between Vancouver and Whistler , for 30 dollars max one way . The web fare is $ 20 and if you book at least 3 weeks in advance , it can be as low as $ 15 .
Via the <URL> , it is possible to book a bus from Berlin to Krakow for 29 EUR , even for a departure on a ( very ) short notice ( read : tomorrow ) . The price for a regular train ticket is 61 EUR . Eurolines will charge you about the same . The travel time by bus or train is 9 - 10 hours . By train you have to change once . The typical routing is via Warsaw . The plane is more expensive . Air Berlin has direct flights from Berlin to Krakow . One-way fares start at about 100 EUR , even for a departure at short notice ( in a week or so ) . Travel time is 1h20 . Regarding Poznan , it is an underrated destination in Poland . It 's definitely worth a stop . Note that all the trains from Warsaw to Berlin stop in Poznan too . It is indeed possible to travel on a night train from Poznan to Krakow . I do n't think that you will save a lot of money by doing that ( if any at all ) . The major advantage of the night train is the time saving . You can leave Berlin in the late afternoon and you will arrive in Krakow early in the morning . Traveling by day you will leave in the morning and arrive in the evening . On the other hand it can be pleasant to spend an evening in Krakow and sleep in a real bed .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
Fist of all a short disclaimer : The blue market is an unofficial market not recognized by federal authorities and changing money there is illegal . Thousands of Argentinians use this market every day as buying dollars in the official market is almost prohibited by the government . I will try to answer your question without entering into the details of the current political and economical situation which is currently driving Argentina . As you pointed out , there are currently two very different rates for the Argentinian Peso ( ) According to Yahoo Finance the official exchange between $ 1 dollar and the peso is <URL> What you mention in your question is what is known as the Blue Market As stated in the disclaimer , currently it is <URL> for Argentinians to buy foreign currency which has made the price go up in the secondary market . You can find the current value per $ 1 on many unofficial websites like <URL> . As for today $ 1 is about $ 7.50 pesos Where can you trade in the Blue Market ? People selling the blue dollar are called " <URL> " ( little trees ) and places where you can buy/sell the blue are called " cuevas " ( caves ) While you are in Buenos Aires you can ask any cab driver , shop owner , hotel personnel , etc , for the closest arbolito or where to trade the blue market and they will be able to point you in the right direction . Disclaimer again : Remember it is illegal ( although AFIP ( Argentinian IRS ) does not seem to be chasing buyers )
Gazole and Diesel are synonyms . They both mean diesel fuel , as opposed to essence or super ( short for supercarburant , nobody uses the long form ) which means usual car gasoline . You must use the type of fuel that 's appropriate for your car , either gazole or super . I think that diesel engines are more common in cars in France than in most other countries . The extra word extra means a type of fuel that has advantages compared with non-extra , either to mileage or to engine longevity . As far as I know , the term diesel extra is not regulated , it is only a commercial name chosen by this or that brand .
The only ferry to Iceland is the weekly ferry from Denmark . It takes a while and you spend two nights aboard each way ( and incidentally get the opportunity to visit the Faeroe Islands along the way ) . The ferry is not guaranteed to run during winter ( it mostly carries cargo during the winter months , if there is cargo going to Iceland you can book a trip , but only shortly before departure ) . The ferry is also rather expensive , so for a short trip ( anything under a week certainly ) you would likely find it cheaper to fly and then rent a car . This will also save you 4 days at sea , which would eat into any shorter trip .
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
You have at least two options : Bus + train The nearest railway station to Courmayeur is Pré-St . Didier , approximately 6 km from Courmayeur . To get from Courmayeur to Pré-St . Didier , take a bus with <URL> . This bus departs several times per day and takes 10 minutes . You need <URL> . It 's also possible to take this bus all the way to Aosta , but it 's perhaps more interesting to change to the train . For the train from either Pré-St . Didier or Aosta to Milano Centrale , you can use the search engine at <URL> . To get from Pré-St . Didier to Milano Centrale , you need to take the train to Aosta , then Aosta -- Ivrea , Ivrea -- Chivasso and Chivasso -- Milano . This route takes 4 hours 18 minutes and costs $ 17.40 . There are other routes that take longer . Note that <URL> , used by bahn.de and other websites , is incomplete . It claims a journey trip from Pré St. Didier to Milan takes 6 hours 55 minutes , by train to Aoste , bus to Martigny , train via Visp to Milano . This is neither fastest nor cheapest ! By bus all the way SAVDA also operate <URL> . Times and frequency depend on the time of day . The bus takes approximately 3 1/2 -- 4 hours , and costs $ 18 .
No , no way to walk from Kowloon to Hong Kong island , there are several ferries to cross the harbour , but none of them is free . There is no tunnel you can walk through either , just motor traffic .
<URL> . The way it works is you can call online or call a local US number that will call the Chinese number for you ( which would use your minutes or your normal per minute cost on top of the $ 0.02 ) . Your girlfriend could call you online using it as well , if you set up an account for her in the US ( it ca n't be set up outside ) . That would require a second phone line though -- any US number that is n't already in use by Google Voice . Once set up she can have it redirect to Gmail chat rather than the phone number , so if you have parents with a land line or something you could use that number ;) I do n't know a cheap way to call from China using a physical phone , unfortunately .
The cost is 2 Malaysian Ringits to get between terminals ( <URL> ) . Unfortunately , you ca n't buy the transfer tickets <URL> , like the other journeys , you have to buy at the counter . If you have some left over Singapore money , you could go to a money exchange place and swap it ( presumably there 's a minimum ) , and use the remainder to buy a nasi lemak or a coffee . Alternatively , while <URL> states that they do n't accept foreign currency , they do accept Visa and Mastercard payments . Or ask another tourist to swap some coins , make a friend and buy them coffee in exchange !
I do like to push them - once again , if you 're really stuck and do n't know where to look , consider <URL> . I 'm not affiliated , although I do compete on there as one of their ' experts ' . Basically they have a bunch of ' experts ' that compete to find you the best price . With what may work best as an open-jawed flight or a double-return ( Japan - > Mexico return , Mexico - > Venezuela return ) will be investigated by people on there . It 's not a free service , but if you do want to use it , check out my profile on here for a discount link . Alternatively sites like <URL> and <URL> are a good start if you want to do all the grunt work yourself .
<URL> often offers very interesting offers from Ostend to Ramsgate . Unfortunately they do n't allow boarding on foot . A different solution would be to use Eurolines , you only need to board further away from Calais or Dover I just checked , a one way ticket from Brussels to London on June 20th is as cheap as 4 Eur one way . Do n't board the bus in Calais or Dover , because then they seem to charge similar prices as boarding the ferry on foot .
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
Fly . Thai AirAsia has direct flights from Bangkok ( Don Mueang ) to both Siem Reap and Phnom Penh , and promotional fares can be less than 1000 baht all in - cheaper than any land transport option , and much faster , safer and more comfortable . Immigration at the airports is also virtually hassle-free . The caveat is that regular/last minute fares are not particularly cheap , so you 'll need to plan ahead to maximize your savings .
One possibility to consider is to fly into another country and then cross over to Russia by land , if time and your visa situation allows it . For example , a flight to Helsinki , Finland may sometimes be significantly cheaper than a flight to Russia , and it 's easy enough to cross into St Petersburg from there . Consider Latvia and Estonia as well . Another idea is to use a European budget airline that flies to Russia ( e.g. fly into the UK , then easyJet flight to Moscow )
end question
start question
Joining the Mile High Club ( MHC ) - Can I get into trouble ?
I just found an interesting article in the <URL> . CINCINNATI ( USA ) - Champagner , Schokolade und totale Diskretion : Das bekommt , wer bei Flamingo Air den " Mile High Special " -- sprich das " Sex im Flugzeug " - Arrangement -- bucht . Unfortunately the article is in German , but the headline says more or less : Champagne , chocolate , and total confidentiality : This is what Flamingo Air offers as their Mile High Special , i.e. whoever will book the " Sex on Board of a Plane " arrangement will get this . So there seems really to be a company that offers such services . And obviously I do n't think I will get into trouble if using such a dedicated service . Their story seems to be true . A quick Google search revealed that other newspapers in English are also reporting about this company . And even on the website of Flamingo Air , this service is mentioned . Funnily , there it is called <URL> .
To follow up on my question - I emailed American to ask them if there was anything else I could do with these upgrades ; and they allowed me to convert as many as I wished to miles , at 500 miles per upgrade . I am an Exec Platinum who flies a lot with them , so this may have been a one-time offer - I ca n't guarantee if they would always do this for everyone ( I do n't think it 's in the rules ) . But it would be worth trying if anyone is in a similar position .
I just walked in to a pharmacy in Nairobi ( at Yaya Center , to be exact ) to ask for Diamox . They do have it over the counter . No prescription is necessary . It is 50 Ksh per tablet ( a little over USD 0.50 ) .
Vegan is more than possible in Japan . There are a number of <URL> on the topic that I suggest you look at . In terms of the specifics of a sushi restaurant , the vegan basics are : Kappa maki - cucumber roll カッパ巻き Natto maki - roll with natto 納豆巻き Abokado nigiri/maki - avocado nigiri or maki アボカドにぎり Ume shiso maki - Plums paste with shiso herbs -- see Footnote 1 梅しそ巻き <URL> zushi - rice in an inari ( fried tofu ) wrapper - See Footnote 2 稲荷寿し <URL> maki - pickled daikon maki お新香巻き <URL> maki - dried calabash gourd maki かんぴょう巻き You can also ask for your own maki variations - especially if you can see the chef in front of you : Ninjin avokado maki - carrot - avocado maki 人参アボカド巻き Kyuuri to ninjin maki - cucumber and carrot maki 胡瓜と人参巻き <URL> maki - burdock root ( used in <URL> ) wrap - see Footnote 3 - ごぼう巻き Spinach ( horenso ほうれん草 ) , bamboo shoots ( takenoko たけのこ ) - see Footnote 3 Most sushi chefs will understand basic english terms with the exception of cucumbers ( kyuuri ) . They should take making a vegan sushi for you as a fun challenge . Now not technically sushi , but riceballs can be usually ordered at a sushi restaurant : Yaki onigiri - roasted rice ball with seaweed wrapper ( with toasted sesame seeds ) 焼きおにぎり Onigiri - rice ball with seaweed wrapper おにぎり Ume onigiri - rice ball with plum paste 梅おにぎり Konbu onigiri - rice ball with konbu seaweed 昆布おにぎり Footnote 1 : Real home-made or chef-made umeboshi plum paste does n't use katsuobushi ( bonito flakes ) . As long as you 're not at a chain restaurant , you can ask the chef if the umeboshi has katsuobushi ( 梅干しには鰹節が入っていますか ？ umeboshi ni wa katsuobushi wa haitte imasuka ) . They may give you the stink eye because it 's like asking a haute cuisine French chef if their roux has corn starch in it . Footnote 2 : Inari sushi is great if you can make sure that they do n't dip the fried tofu wrappers in a non-vegan dashi ( not all places dip them in dashi , most just soak them in mirin which is vegan ) . Footnote 3 : Spinach and bamboo shoots ( and occasionally burdock root ) are usually steamed with katsuobushi ( bonito ) dashi stock . They may be able to make a vegan variation if they still have the raw ingredients and like you . Bonus section If you 're in Kyoto , try to visit a Kyoyasai （ 京野菜 ) restaurant -- these serve heritage vegetables from the Kyoto area . Yum . If you 're by a Buddhist temple , try Shojinryori （ 精進料理 ) -- <URL> which has no meat . For both , you should make sure that the dashi ( stock ) is vegan , made from kelp ( konbu dashi ) or mushrooms ( shiitake dashi ) and not from bonito ( katsuobushi ) . A real temple would n't serve bonito dashi but a restaurant might ( especially in the case of kyoyasai which is more about the heritage vegetables and not about being vegan ) .
You really do n't need to bring it , soy milk is widely available at most any supermarket in Australia . You should be allowed to import soy milk if it 's commercially packaged , but you must declare it to <URL> on arrival , if you fail to declare it you may be subject to fines .
If you have a sufficiently modern iPhone ( eg . anything that runs iOS 9 would be fine ) , then enable a passcode , set " Require Passcode " to " Immediately " ( so you have to enter it every time you open the phone ) or something short . The phone 's memory is encrypted using a key derived from the passcode . No passcode , no personally identifiable data . If you do this , then the chance of identity theft due to a stolen phone is effectively zero .
It appears <URL> . All of this answer will be based on the info there but since you seemed not satisfied with it you should come back here after your trip and give an answer based on your personal experience . As reported in the forum post , there are ATMs in Beyneu so you can always withdraw some tenge . I also see <URL> so you might also be able to exchange if you prefer . <URL> . It says ATM 's ( bankomat in Russian ) are found on every major street in big cities . You can withdraw money with Visa , Mastercard or Maestro . The occasional refusal of your card is to be expected , but most ATM 's accept a wide range of foreign bank cards . In smaller towns , there probably will not be an ATM available for cash withdrawal . I 'm not sure if Beyneu qualifies as a big city so that one is up for judgement , but it also says : Currency exchange in Kazakhstan can be found on every street corner . Rates are competitive , once you leave the airport or train station . Main currencies that are traded with tenge are US dollar , Euro , British pound , Russian rouble , Kyrgyz som and Chinese yuan . so you will find some way of getting enough tenge I 'm pretty sure . If not , as pointed out in the forum , you should be able to pay your ride with dollars at a less advantageous price .
First , you must declare all food , even food that is allowed . Second , according to <URL> you may bring : cheese : up to 20 kilograms per person You may not bring : milk , milk products ( whey , cream , skim milk , butter oil , and so on ) dried , frozen , reconstituted , or fresh Note they do not distinguish among cheese types as you have done - it 's all allowed . ( I personally suspect raw cheese might be an issue but the web site does n't say so . Obviously being in sealed , professionally-labelled packages helps . ) A friend brought rather a lot of fondue mix home from a Swiss trip and I presume she declared it . She was able to bring it in without issues .
There 's no time limit - as long as you 're traveling that day you will be allowed through security and allowed into the lounge . You do n't even need to be flying AA - as long as you can physically get to the lounge and have paid your money then you will be allowed in . The only real restriction is if you are planning to check luggage , in which case you will not be able to check your luggage until ~ 3-4 hours before the departure time of the flight .
As a rule of thumb , if <URL> , its airlines will not accept them either . In the Middle East , this means primarily Iran Air , Kuwait Airways and Saudia are off the table for your itinerary . There are a number of minor carriers in the region that would also refuse you in theory ( MEA , Iraqi , etc ) , but as far as I 'm aware none fly to India , so these would not be an issue in practice . ( To be quite precise , Iraqi actually does fly to India , but it 's banned from the EU ! ) However , note that the five biggest players -- Emirates , Etihad , Qatar , Turkish and Gulf Air -- do accept Israeli citizens for connecting flights .
Even if you 're with a tour group , you almost all enter at the same point , and will be buying tickets at the gate . It 's important to note that while there 's generally a few thousand a day at Machu Picchu , they severely restrict the numbers each day for Huayana Picchu . So if you want one of those ( 2x200 I believe ) , you need to make sure you 're on the first bus up there , or speak to your tour guide about getting there early . Fight for it if you have to - it 's totally worth it . As @Itai says , it 's steep , and take insect repellent ( never been bitten so much in my life ) but the view from the top is totally worth the climb :)
There are a few that you will definitely need to carry with you . According to the information listed in a blog <URL> : Car registration documents Driver 's license Vehicle registration plate with information written in Roman characters Your country 's two-letter country code bumper sticker Green Card insurance certificate This is about the only information available online about the rules for entry to Ukraine by car . In addition that are usual requirements by the <URL> .
Mike Brant is buried in the Sde Yehoshua Jewish Cemetery in Haifa , also called Mahane ( camp ) David or Neve David after the neighborhood it located next to it . The Cemetery can be seen <URL> . There are two bus stations , one beneath it and one above it , different busses go to each station , so you should decide what entrance you need before . The location of the stations is : The red circle is the above station and the blue , the below . To find out what busses go there you can check the <URL> . The station in the german colony is called German Colony : Kiryat Eliyahu , Sderot Ben Gu ... ( the main street ) or German Colony : Yitskhak Sadeh . The station above ( red ) the cemetery is called Kfar Samir Cemetery : Military Cemetery , as can be seen from the picture , there are several stations there , and you do n't need the military cemetery , but the civilian cemetery , which is the next station after the military cemetery , you can ask the driver to tell you what station you need . The station below ( blue ) the cemetery is called The Old Cemetery : Sderot ha-Hagana , there is only one station there . I could find the exact location of the grave in the cemetery however , only a picture of the grave : ( <URL> ) There are more pictures of the grave online . Sadly I could n't find the exact location of the grave , only that it 's located near a wall , but it is n't clear what wall it is , and if it 's a wall separating the different cemeteries , or a bounding wall .
Of course ! For example , as a New Zealander , while I was in the UK I decided to go to South America , and later to Central Asia . I needed vaccinations , obviously . It was as simple as going to the doctor . Of course , in many countries it will cost you money , and you 're right , it 's probably not covered by insurance . I 've also had new prescriptions filled and even gotten <URL> . Health systems are usually available to anyone , just what you end up paying may differ to the locals . And whether it 's covered by insurance is entirely dependent on your policy . ( from <URL> ) Whatever you do , if you have that yellow booklet of all your vaccinations , take that with you for them to sign and document , so that you have an official record of them . It 's come in handy for me on more than one occasion .
In another document , <URL> , it says , emphasis mine : In de artikelen Douanebepalingen Nederland en Douanebepalingen Nederland , bijzondere goederen staat precies beschreven wat u Nederland mee in mag nemen zonder aangifte te hoeven doen . Or in English , The articles " Customs regulations Netherlands " and " Customs regulations Netherlands , special goods " describe exactly what you are allowed to take with you into the Netherlands without having to declare . The second of those documents has another description of those rules about fruit . So a few fruits for personal use are allowed , and you do n't have to declare them . They 're treated exactly like everything else that you 're allowed to just bring with you .
Legally , you can book a hotel room if you are 18 in the state of Washington . I believe this is true in most parts of the U.S. , but there may be exceptions for particular states . Some hotels have policies with a higher minimum age , such as 21 . However , this is far from universal . You might have to do a little bit of extra research , including checking hotel websites , emailing , or calling for confirmation . However , I do n't think you 'll have a big problem finding a room .
I have checked in many a cabin sized piece of luggage and never noticed them being handled any different from bigger sized items . At times I have chatted with the check-in staff when checking in a small case , they always reacted in a way that suggested that it is often done . They do understand the need when you are having two pieces when only one is allowed for carry-on or when you mention carrying items not allowed in the cabin . Looking out of the plane to the luggage carts on the tarmac you see all sizes of luggage mixed and when they put in the belly of the plane one by one , they are thrown no more gently nor more wildly than the bigger pieces of luggage . On reclaiming luggage , the smaller items are , again , mixed with the bigger pieces and come the normal way . So make sure your cabin allowed trolley is sturdy enough to handle normal luggage handling . In all cases of luggage damage , get to the location within the luggage reclaim area where you are going to be helped when luggage is missing . Often the same location as where you collect out-sized luggage , but it can also be a different office off the main hall or a glass walled one in the hall . Get forms filled out and photos taken ( if only by yourself if they do not do it as well ) and do not leave till you have been seen by staff . Claiming online or by mail after you come home is not as likely to be successfull , as they can easily claim you have damaged the case since or have substituded a damaged case for the one you used . But I have always taken sending in luggage as taking a risk . If it breaks in a predictable way , I replace it . I might take action if a new strong trolley is broken or ripped open , but a small dent or even a broken off wheel on a used one , bad luck . In some airports you can get your luggage plastic wrapped . In some you can get sturdy plastic bags that encase your whole luggage ( mostly for backpacks but if you see them supplied you can ask . ) And you can of course buy a bigger case or bag and put it outside your cabin sized trolley .
This is possible . It is an economical way of accommodation in Croatia . In tourist areas , it is not difficult to find a room ( " Sobe " in Croatian ) , even during the high season . Landlords await tourists at the arrival of the boat or the bus . You can also go to the local tourist office . They can help you in finding a room . It is possible to find rooms in the price range you mention . Sometimes you can get a discount if you stay more than one or two nights . Moreover , during the high season some landlords are reluctant to rent a room for only one night . Note that there are some " informal " landlords , i.e. not every landlord is running an officially declared business . But that must not be an issue . I guess this is the same in Greece . It is a good idea to visit a room before accepting . That can help to avoid bad surprises .
Short answer : Yes , you will get in trouble . And I personally do n't recommend public drinking in any Arabic/Islamic country . It is even illegal in many other countries . Long answer is that <URL> . By the way , Ramadan is a single month per lunar year . It was in <URL> 1 , it will be in <URL> . and yes , there are special rules for Ramadan . Also note that Dubai is a state ( county ) in a country ( United Arab Emirates ) . Rules outside Dubai are MUCH different . For example , <URL> .
As of July 13 , 2013 , permits are no longer required . <URL> for this : Can I import Absinthe or oil of wormwood into Australia ? The controls on the importation of ' Oil of wormwood ' and products containing ' oil of wormwood ' , have been repealed from the Customs ( Prohibited Imports ) Regulations 1956 . Permission is no longer required in order to import these products . Here 's <URL> .
end question
start question
Are there scheduled flight connections operated with a helicopter ?
Not lots of airports , but lots of rich people : <URL> operates a regular flight between Nice airport and Monaco every 30mn . Fee is 105 $ from Monaco to Nice and 120 $ from Nice to Monaco , or 210 $ for both .
It 's not hard to identify flights which may fly over the Grand Canyon -- but finding out which ones definitely will , and whether or not you will have a view if you take one , are a different story . With some trial and error , you can find flights that pass over the area on any of the websites that offer flight tracking , like <URL> . Grand Canyon National Park is labeled on the " Aviation Sectional " map view , and its contours are visible on that view as well as the " Earth View . " Since FlightAware and similar services show the actual reported flight paths of aircraft , they are more reliable for discovery than , for example , tools like the <URL> , which rely on purely mathematical calculations . The <URL> shows aircraft currently reports in an area , though this will include many non-commercial flights . As there is a good amount of traffic through this area headed to and from Southern California or Phoenix , you can try plugging in city pairs like MSP-LAX , SLC-PHX , or SEA-TUS in the " <URL> " for some ideas . There is a great deal of variation in actual flight paths , however . Flight plans take into account the winds and the weather , and flights are subject to rerouting by the air traffic control system . Consider that on 25 September 2014 , <URL> passed straight over the eastern Grand Canyon , but today , <URL> flies well to the northwest , bypassing it entirely . Even if you had been on the 25 September flight , you might not have had much of a view . There could have been clouds ; or the plane might have been turning , banking your side of the plane towards the sky ; or you may have passed at an angle that showed only a vague gap on the horizon , and not any view into the canyon itself . But most importantly , of course , you 'd have been flying through the area after sunset . While approaches to airports are somewhat more predictable -- airports have certain prevailing wind patterns and certain preferred runways -- the path an aircraft will take over such a large area is much less certain . If you 're really excited about the idea of flying over the Grand Canyon , I suggest you look into booking an <URL> . Otherwise , enjoy the flight as best you can , and think of any Grand Canyon sightings as a nice bonus .
Mixed fare class bookings are generally not possible online . To be a little more precise , most engines will happily compose the cheapest tickets from mixed fare classes , but do not give you fine-grained control over individual segments . See also <URL> , which is about essentially the same issue . I 'd generally recommend figuring out the exact flights/fare classes you want on <URL> , and then : Call the airline and book through them . Will usually incur a booking fee . Find a ( good ) travel agent and book through them . Booking fees may apply , but will usually be less since they also get a commission from the airline . Not all travel agents will be able to assist though .
If you have a specific flight in mind , with the flight number , you can use <URL> , which has pretty good global coverage for most airlines . The duration is shown on the right : actual duration for completed flights and scheduled duration for upcoming/in progress ones .
The <URL> has a <URL> . This document mentions toy guns as being forbidden in carry-on luggage ( emhpasis mine ) : PASSENGERS AND CABIN BAGGAGE Without prejudice to applicable safety rules , passengers are not permitted to carry the following articles into security restricted areas or on board an aircraft , on either their person or in cabin baggage : guns , firearms and other devices that discharge projectiles -- devices capable , or appearing capable , of being used to cause serious injury by discharging a projectile , including : firearms of all types , such as pistols , revolvers , rifles , shotguns toy guns , replicas and imitation firearms capable of being mistaken for real weapons It would therefore be safe to assume that since both nerf and water gun can be classified as toy guns , neither will be permitted as cabin luggage on board a British Airways flight . To be extra sure <URL> and ask them directly .
<URL> does that . When you do the search , one of the options is to subscribe for updates for the route and dates you 've selected , and they 'll email you when the prices change .
<URL> list all the big Christmas markets in Switzerland . I can really recommend those two that are in the <URL> It sounds weird but they are really nice . As a plus next to the Christmas market in Zurich 's main station , there are a lot of open air bars in the courtyard of the <URL> where you can get Glühwein and Raclette , typical food and drink during Christmas in Switzerland . As lejohn already mentioned , also the <URL> is worth a visit . Here you see a picture of the Christmas market in Zurich 's main station . The huge Christmas tree is decorated with <URL> crystals . And here is a picture of the Landesmuseum 's courtyard where you can get Raclette and Glühwein . It is also possible to do some ice skating there :
The answer is both yes and no . Outside Bangkok , Thailand has only two roads that are " real " controlled-access , grade-separated motorways : Route 7 from Bangkok to Pattaya ( 150km ) , which has ( AFAIK ) Thailand 's solitary " real " rest area as well , and Route 5 , which loops around Bangkok 's periphery and which you 're unlikely to venture onto . So , no , you 're not going to find any " real " rest areas driving up from Malaysia to Bangkok . On the other hand , Thailand 's main highways are the country 's lifeblood and are thus full of gas stations , restaurants , motels , etc. . Quite a few of these cater more or less explicitly to buses and travelers and are thus rest areas in all but name , so yes , you can almost always find gas , a meal or a place to sleep when you need one . Not quite as good for hitchhiking as the real thing though ...
The problem is that flight paths change quite often depending on prevailing winds , air traffic and weather patterns . So there 's not always one exact flight path that you can rely on . However , if you want to see where a plane is at any given time and what path it took , I use <URL> , which is remarkably close visually to the air traffic radar screens we used to use when I did ATC software development .
The bad news is , they simply did n't want to take a photo with you , that 's it . That 's the common excuse flight attendants use when they do n't want to take a photo with someone . To prove this , check this <URL> , in one of the most famous cabin crew groups in Facebook ( I do n't own it ) . You will see many photos for Emirates cabin crew with passengers . Check other albums as well , you will find the same . The rejection could also be due to the fact that it 's during the boarding , it 's somehow a critical time . So , next time ask in a better time , like after service for example . Emirates , as well as all other airlines ( AFAIK ) , has no rules regarding taking photos while on uniform , whether it 's with passengers , celebrities , in planes , in airports , etc. . It 's considered a free publicity . Of course , as long as the photo is " fine " and not degrading by any means . I am aware of one airline that totally prohibits this , which is Qatar airways . A photo with uniform has one punishment , that is termination , no exception for that except for the official photos by the airline itself . All the unofficial photos for Qatar crew members are published by their owners after they leave Qatar . This is a source of jokes actually among the cabin crew community .
No , this will not be a problem . You are permitted to do this . Often times , I have had a valid visa on my old passport but I am using my current passport for travel .
Yes . In my experience while you ca n't get a refund , you can get a credit . If the airline wo n't give you a credit , you can give yourself one like this : determine the change fee for your flight . In this example I 'll use $ 150 . remind yourself of the price you paid for your flight . I 'll use $ 1000 . find a flight a long way in the future that costs just under the difference , eg $ 850 . It does not matter where this flight is from or to , you will NOT be taking it . change your flight to that flight . You may end up needing to pay a few dollars on a credit card , or losing some of your credit if you change to something that costs less than the target price . Consider changing to a higher fare class that does not have change fees , if you can . ( Before you call , look into whether you are allowed to change up and down on this airline . Changing up to avoid change fees is a fool 's bargain if you ca n't change back down again when you use the credit . ) wait until you want to use the credit . Do n't wait too long since generally you ca n't make changes that take a ticket beyond the one-year mark since it was first issued . Use it only when you are going to spend more than the credit ( possibly the credit less the change fee ) so $ 850 or $ 700 . change your flight again to what you want . Again , you may have to pay a small balance , or give up part of your credit if you 're not using it all . When I have credits that clients paid for , I try to use them on the client 's behalf in the future . This is also one of those times you can get yourself in a more expensive fare class ( from which upgrades are cheaper or more likely , or in which the food is free , for example ) since you need to use up the whole credit . The airline I fly most often actually does this behind the scenes when you cancel a ticket . But if the airline you 're flying does n't , you can - do n't lose what you paid ! If the change fees on your airline are so high that would you not end up with any actual benefit , you should cancel anyway . This may enable another person to buy a ticket they urgently need . No-showing for the second leg of a return ticket generally wo n't hurt you , but it can inconvenience all the people who work at getting a flight out with everyone on board . So take a minute and let them know not to expect you , if it 's simply a matter of clicking something on a web site .
A Geiger Counter measures the current radiation level . It can really only tell you " It 's safe here " , " do n't stay here too long " or " get out of here , NOW ! " . If you 're going to stay in an area where the length of your stay could expose you to a dangerous total amount of radiation , you need a <URL> ( The Wikipedia page links to a list that compares specific models ) . But any area where you could receive a dangerous amount of radiation over the course of as little as 8 hours is almost certainly not accessible to the public .
For safety , consider the aircraft age and the company operating the flights . A larger , well established company is less likely to skimp on maintenance and crew . A newer plane costs more , and is probably safer . Germany has tighter aviation safety standards than Russia .
I ca n't figure out if you are mainly asking about regulations or about possible differences between planes from the same model that might interest a traveller . If you want more details on the former , you might consider asking on the <URL> sister site but regarding the latter , there are definitely differences . Airlines can and do ask plane makers like Airbus or Boeing for customizations in interior design . Differences includes class configuration ( how many first class and business seats ) , the amenities and the seats themselves ( there are big differences especially in the premium classes ) , the size of the seats and the distance between the rows . Insiders call this the " hard product " . As pointed out in the comments , it 's even possible to change the interior configuration on an existing plane after delivery ( although immobilizing a plane for that costs a lot of money ) . Case in point , the <URL> ( a common choice for short-haul low-cost flights ) can be between 150 ( in a two-class cabin ) and 180 ( in a ' high-density ' single class configuration ) . Similarly , the Airbus A380 is certified for <URL> but nobody has ordered one with so many seats and each operator uses a different configuration , sometimes even two . Beyond that , some rows have to be further apart for operational reasons ( emergency exit rows , row at the front with the passage to the front door or a bulkhead in front of them ) . Traditionally , you could get a seat there by chance or , possibly , by being clever and asking for it while still paying the same price . But some airlines realized they could scrap a little bit of profit by selling those seats at a small premium . That 's the origin of , e.g. , Easyjet 's " XL " extra legroom seats ( they did not order new planes with specially designed " premium " seats , let alone a a kind of two-class cabin , they just happened to have 12-18 seats with more legroom on each plane already ) . One drawback is that you ca n't put anything under the seat in front of you on these rows . There is a website called seatguru with a huge wealth of information on seat dimensions and cabin configuration on various airlines . Glancing at their <URL> , you will see that seat pitch ( distance between rows ) ranges between 28 and 39 inches ( almost 40 % more ! ) across all planes and airlines . Similarly , seat width is between 16 or 17 and 20 inches . Bottom line : You ca n't assume that flying a given plane model guarantees you will have the same leg space .
Wow , interesting question . Nature-wise there 's SO much to see in Ireland - Cliffs of Moher , Giant 's Causeway , the Dingle Peninsula . There 's sights from Blarney Castle to the amazing history and sights of Belfast . However , if you 're after things specifically that children may enjoy - ' history ' stuff is probably out ;) I 'd suggest the following to include in your itinerary : 1 ) Dingle Peninsula - as well as being a beautiful place and a charming town , you can look for Fungie , Dingle 's resident dolphin . And if you ca n't find him , his statue is down by the boats as well :) 2 ) Giant 's Causeway - a spectacular place with over 40,000 columns of basalt rock , it 'd be fun for kids to climb all over as well . 3 ) The Exploris Aquarium in Northern Ireland : <URL> 4 ) Belfast - the night-time Black Cab tours - sure the history wo n't mean much to the kids , but Black Cabs can be a fun and different vehicle to ride in . And it 's a brilliant tour for adults ! 5 ) Blarney Castle - castles are fun for everyone , and you get to hang off the top and kiss the Blarney stone ! ;) 6 ) The Cliffs of Moher ca n't be skipped - absolutely spectacular ! Plus when you see the Cliffs of Insanity in The Princess Bride , you 'll be able to say you 've been there :) Finally if you 're after some places to eat and stay that are kids friendly : <URL>
Yes , you can , it even seems to be the expected behaviour . All three alliances have restrictions and rules , from basic expected ones like a maximum number of miles to some random and precise ones like a forbidden combination of carriers ( " When a QF ( Qantas ) marketed , NU ( Japan Transocean Air ) operated flight is part of an itinerary , IB ( Iberia ) ticket stock can not be utilized . " ) . Overall , the same basic conditions regarding flight planning apply to all three alliances : you should get the first ticket about a week before your first flight ( a priori a firm booking with a specific flight on a specific date ) , you should plan all the stops you are going to make , in advance , but not necessarily the dates ( and exact flight number , or even carrier ) . It does not mention precisely how to make these changes for free ( online or at the airport ) , even though the mention of " local fees " probably means you can at least show up at the airport and book a specific flight for an extra fee . Here you can see in details each alliance policy and conditions page : for <URL> , look for " 4.1 . Change of Plans " in the help and it mentions that " Change of travel dates , carriers or flights is free of charge . " ( I suppose that " flight " means in fact flight number ) . for <URL> , the fees for changes are : " USD 0 for date/time/flight number changes ( other than the first sector ) ( local service fee may apply ) " for <URL> , " All remaining flights may be left open ( i.e. without confirmed flight numbers and dates ) , as long as each flight is reserved prior to departure . Tickets can be booked or issued up to one hour before departure in some countries . " So in the end , the change of flight is a basic allowed modification of round-the-world tickets . However , be careful with all rules that apply , it might be worth reading the terms and conditions when you picked an alliance , as buying such a ticket involves thousands of dollars and may impact months of travel .
This almost comes under ' opinion based ' , but we can treat it as a compare-and-contrast option . Hi from Sydney , BTW . Australia is huge . Literally similar in size to the US . That does n't mean you ca n't drive across it , but you have to take things into account that do n't occur to people compared with the US : gas stations are few and far between in some places there 's long distances with nothing in-between if you break down , you might not see anyone else for hours , or days . There 's a reason the main tourist trail is on the east coast - it 's where most people live , and where most of the interesting stuff is in terms of variety . A common backpacker route ( if doing a circle route ) is to go from say , Melbourne to Sydney ( perhaps via Canberra ) , up the coast to Byron Bay , Gold Coast and the Sunshine Coast , Cairns etc , then perhaps inland/across to Darwin , down to Alice Springs ( Uluru , woo ! ) , through to Coober Pedy and Adelaide ( with Kangaroo Island ) , and back to Melbourne , or at least a similar route with alternative starting points ( perhaps Sydney ) . Perth is usually considered a flight - most would n't consider driving , busing or training - although all are options . I 've bussed from Adelaide to Alice Springs , and that alone is 20 hours . I 've had relatives who lived in Derby ( near Broome ) for a while , and there 's not much else around . I 'd love to do the drive from Perth to Broome , but it 's long and there 's not much in-between to look at . So , it depends what you 're after . If you 've got the time to do a trip that you probably wo n't get much chance to head back and do again , maybe consider the harder Perth to Broome . If you 're after seeing the sights and places that Australia is known for , then you 're better off on the east coast . If you 're going to do both , fly or bus . You do n't want to be the tired driver driving in twilight , dodging kangaroos and worrying about the gas light that 's been on for 50km . Unless of course , that 's your thing ;)
<URL> . ( image from <URL> ) Have a nice stay !
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
end question
start question
How much to tip for a free meal in Mexico ?
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
The museum is quite small - 2 or 3 rooms , as I recall . Reviews on TripAdvisor suggest 1-2 hours , depending on whether you care to watch the the half hour documentary on his life . Personally , I did n't watch the entire film , and probably spent under an hour there , and I felt like I had a fairly comprehensive view of all the exhibits . Obviously if you 're an artist or someone who can view the exhibits at a much more detailed level than I can , you could take longer . I would recommend <URL> and asking how long those take .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
It very much depends on what you mean by . For the purpose of this answer I will assume you meant engine damage linked to combustible type , rather than other possibly infrastructure-related issues . <URL> seems to have driven quite a few kilometres in South America , and can thus provide some useful hands-on experience . Probably worth a reading . Understanding Octane Ratings <URL> A higher-octane fuel is therefore capable of withstanding higher compressions than a lower-octane . Compression is an intrinsic phase of the correct operation of an internal combustion engine . Compression results in an increase of temperature , and can therefore cause low-octane fuel to ignite . However fuel ignition is a precisely-timed operation , in that the ignition should be commanded by the spark plug only , when the piston reaches a precise point in its stroke . <URL> can be harmful to the engine . Mexico and USA Use Comparable Octane Ratings <URL> ( ) , which means that the octane values you read on Mexican filling stations will be comparable to those back home . <URL> : 87 and 92 . Hence pick the rating that most closely resembles the one you normally use in the US and you should be safe . Comparing Octane Ratings In case you were to drive in countries that use an octane rating different than ( usually this would be Research Octane Number ) , you could use <URL> from wikipedia , which states that : 87 is & sime ; 90/91/92 92 is & sime ; 95/96/97 / 98 Guatemala and Costa Rica , for example , seem indeed to use ratings .
If you arrive early enough you can park at the visitor center . But it is often full before 10 am . So , if it is full , you 'll have to backtrack into town : The National Park Service has a <URL> which you may be able to use . Some of these are standalone park and ride facilities ; others are sections of hotel or local business parking lots , or adjacent to them . In these cases be sure to follow the Park &amp; Ride signs ( which unfortunately are fairly small and can be hard to spot ) and park in the marked areas . This map also shows where the <URL> stops . The Park &amp; Ride sign looks like this : There is also street parking on parts of Zion Park Blvd. , but do n't count on finding an open space .
There 's a bit of per-country variation , but the rule of thumb across Western Europe is that service charges are already included in the bill ( sometimes as a separate line item , sometimes not ) and it 's not necessary to tip in addition to this . If you must , and you usually would n't unless the service is really good , rounding up a euro or two to the nearest suitable number is sufficient . This is usually done only with cash , since the kind of places that accept credit cards tend to also be the kind of places with hefty service charges already in the bill , but you can usually tip by credit card as well the same way you would in the US : just write in the amount after tip and sign . Wikipedia has a fairly handy <URL> . Edit : Sigh . The OP asked about tipping in " Western Europe " , I 've summarized the rule for " Western Europe " , which is that tipping is generally not necessary . Of course there are exceptions and not every restaurant and every country is exactly the same , hence the link to Wikipedia , but the key point is that , unlike the US , you never have to leave 15 % in addition to the bill .
Is a prior/recent entry into Mexico a red flag for U.S. immigration officials ? I have recently finished watching all of the episodes of the TV show <URL> . I know you asked about the States , but in this regard , I would say that the immigration practises are not too dissimilar . I have observed two things : Mexico : considered to be a drug source country . There are a good number of cases shown whereby visitors to Mexico and other South American nations bring back banned substances to their country of origin . This happens knowingly as well as under duress . Substances tend to be concealed within the body at times and this can only be brought out of the traveller under extensive questioning/checks . India : I 've heard immigration officers state that India is also a drug source country especially when packages are shipped from India . Another flag : it is not uncommon to find Indian visitors bring in undeclared food/fruits/meat products . Is so , why and is it fair ? I think this to be a matter of opinion . Every country has their own rules on who they want to screen based on circumstantial clues . There are going to be people who think it makes a place safer and there are going to be people who think it is a nuisance . I have my opinion too : immigration officers have a job to do regardless of a travellers country of origin , gender , race , etc. . If you feel like you have been treated unfairly , there are channels through with grievances can be reported . I do suspect they treat a Mexican entry as a risk , but I 'm looking for concrete citations that they do . That is not in the public domain . A lot of the time , immigration officers tend to question persons they feel could be concealing something .
Big malls have free WiFi for sure . The <URL> offers it free of registration , while <URL> require a simple registration - the password will be sent to your phone with a SMS . The hotel where I was staying had free WiFi in the hall . If you really need internet I suggest to get a SIM card from local company <URL> or <URL> for the duration of your stay .
The " official " <URL> is <URL> . From the airport to the Szechenyi Bath the price is 21-22 EUR : Back to the airport costs 16 EUR : You 'll get a discount card at your first travel , you have to show it the second time to get the discount rate . I 've never payed Euros but I think they accept it ( they printed the price also in Euros ) . According to the airport 's homepage you can also pay with credit card : All cars are equipped with POS terminal , therefore passengers can pay with credit card as well .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
When taking the ICE ( long-distance high speed train ) to FRA , there is something else to consider : The German Railways ( Deutsche Bahn ) . The trains can be quite delayed , which messes with your whole planning . I always plan another 30 minutes to an hour when travelling with them , especially if you are catching a long-haul flight . In your case , this would mean to take the train that arrives 3:15 before the flight . For example , on the route Köln HBf-Frankfurt Flughafen , 26,0 % of the 4667 trains were delayed . Average delay was 18,3 Minuten , but note that this is an average . I have travelled quite a lot on this route and I had everything from on time ( < 5 minute delay ) to 2 hours . Data source : <URL> Note that the data is from 2013 .
There is no clear price information mentioned on <URL> . The easiest thing to do will be to call or email them . Their website provides this information : Baggage storage is exclusively available at the Airport Travel Agency , located on the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . The Airport Travel Agency is open daily from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. No reservations are required for baggage storage . All baggage is x-rayed prior to storage . Rates are assessed per each 24 hour period that an article is in storage ( articles in storage for less than 24 hours will be subject to the 24 hour rate ) , and vary according to the size of the object . Please contact the Airport Travel Agency at 650.877.0422 or CF.Airport@gmail.com for additional information . <URL> says that the typical rates vary from $ 15 to $ 35 whereas the pricing on the <URL> is quite ambiguous and seems to not agree with the same . I would assume that your size luggage would cost approximately $ 25 but the best solution is to just ask via email . SFO offers only one staffed location where you can store baggage . Airport Travel Agency , located in the Departures/Ticketing Level of the International Terminal , is near the entrance to Gates G91-G102 . It offers storage for $ 15 to $ 35 per day depending on the size of items you are storing .
It 's worth remembering that Delta agreed to allow this 3rd party website to sell tickets on their behalf . Therefore , to some degree , it IS Delta 's problem as well . You have two possible options here : blame the third party , or blame Delta . Or potentially both , as it 's a business relationship between them . I 've found in the past when I 've had problems with an airline , a simple email to their customer support , explaining what happened , why you were disappointed , and a suggestion that perhaps some compensation would be in order gets a pretty decent response , and I 've always been compensated when I 've complained about something ( to be fair , it has to be bad to make me complain ) . If they 're failing to respond , I 've found you can often get a faster response by tweeting them - something about the message being public suddenly gets a quick response :) Try it with the third party website as well . Without knowing the workings of the relationship between the third party and Delta , you ca n't be expected to know exactly who made the error , so I 'd try contacting Delta primarily , as they also deserve to know that something went wrong . If it happens enough , they may change their working relationship . Good luck !
Seat selection information is available on Lufthansa 's site <URL> . Choose your seat free of charge during check-in All the seats which are still available can , of course , still be selected free of charge * as soon as check-in for the flight in question opens -- usually this is from 23 hours before departure . Please note , however , that by this time the choice of seats may be limited . Payment information for economy seating is available <URL> . <URL> Free seat selection is also available based on status .
While there are many calendaring apps / services that show public holiday information , this in itself may not be enough information to judge whether it will affect your travel . Public services may be shut ... but sometimes holidays themselves can be part of your trip because it 's something unique to each country 's culture . The best way to find out the impact of this is to read an actual ( paper / digital guidebook ) and / or <URL> . Having said that , there a couple of tips : <URL> as opposed to solar cycles . This means that holiday dates fall on different ' modern ' calendar days each year . Guidebooks are unlikely to give you specific information about each year , so you 'll need to check the specific dates for each year separarely . However , guidebooks will give you information on what date ranges a particular holiday falls on ( usually , within a two-month period for events based on lunar calendars ) and how that impacts services . For much of Muslim majority countries of the world , the fasting month of <URL> results in food establishments to be shut during daylight hours . This is a helpful tip because it 's generic to many countries and it helps to be prepared for this ! Usually though , unless you 're in a small town , there will be restaurants or eateries that stay open just for the tourist market .
In the US , it 's certainly customary to tip the wait staff - presuming that there are wait staff ! At most buffets in the US there will still be someone that shows you to your table , brings you drinks , takes away your dirty plates , etc. . In these cases most people would tip that person , normally by leaving some cash on the table when leaving . The amount varies greatly , but would normally be in range of $ 1-3 per person depending on the number of people , the price of the buffet , and the level of service provided . For buffets where there is nobody who is acting as your wait staff ( eg , in breakfast buffets in many cheaper hotels ) then you would not normally be expected to leave a tip . Buffets are certainly one of the grayer areas when it comes to tipping . Some people will tell you " yes " , others " maybe " , others " no " - and at the end of the day it 's really up to you . As an Australian living in the US I frequently do n't leave a tip for buffet-style meals depending on the level of service provided - whereas in a non-buffet restaurant I would n't consider not adding a ~ 15 % tip to the bill . In my experience , the US is fairly unique in this regard - I would not expect to tip staff at a buffet in any other country .
Wikipedia has a page on <URL> , and claims : Service charges are included with the bill , and tipping is uncommon However , their link is broken and I suspect it might be wrong . All other resources I can find online indicate that you should , and how much . <URL> 10 % in restaurants and taxis . $ .50 - .75 per bag to porters <URL> : In Paraguay , restaurants that do not automatically add gratuity ( it will say if they do at the bottom of your menu ) then a tip of 10 percent is enough . I found that my servers delighted in the other - than - monetary - tips I gave them . Paperback books , picture books ( postcards ) and compliments to their managers were high on their list . In taxis no tips are necessary . The standard of $ .50 - $ .75 per bag to handlers was the norm . <URL> : 10 % should be left for the waiters . Small change should be given to porters and taxi drivers . So perhaps the culture has changed , but all signs are indicating that yes , you should tip , and especially if the restaurant indicates as such .
When it comes to tipping there are no generic rules . There are recommendations which may or may not be followed . When it comes to complimentary breakfasts or complimentary meals I usually apply a monetary value to them and tip according to that . What most people do is in this case irrelevant because it 's your money and your expectation of service if you are staying multiple days in the same hotel . So if you 're unable to see what people are leaving for tips you should consider how much this meal is worth to you and leave the tips according to that .
Ok , first of all <URL> apart from the big chains which offer free Wifi as long as you consume something . Obviously you will have to make sure that these places are open and according to your taste . A cafe or pub might be more suitable than a sushi restaurant for long-term surfing . Second of all there is a <URL> with free wifi , and this list is maintained by an online magazine and much more detailed .
I was thinking a long time on how to best answer this question . Despite the tininess of Liechtenstein I think it is nevertheless necessary to concentrate on one specific part . So I wrote three answers in one . The first for persons who are interested in cultural life , the second for people how focus on some sports and the last one for people who want to party ! ( Yes that 's possible in Liechtenstein ;) ) Cultural Activities If you 're interested in cultural activities I would start the time with an aperitif at the prince 's winery . This winery is called <URL> . Since the prince has bought the country in 1712 he owns some vineyards . The result you can try and buy at the Hofkellerei . The wines are widely known in the region and you can particularly get Pinot Noir and Chardonnay there . After testing some wines I would stroll around the old town of Vaduz . It is n't really big but you can see there some old houses . In the afternoon you can visit a famous art gallery called <URL> . There you can see modern and contemporary art and also some of the prince 's private collection . In the evening you can go to one of the best restaurants in Liechtenstein . The <URL> is n't really a budget solution , but it really offers good food . It is located just above the prince 's vineyard and it is his majesty restaurant . The Lonely Planet writes : " The garden terrace enjoys a wonderful perspective of the castle above , while the ancient , wood-lined interior is cosy in winter " . Party time If you 're looking for some partying I would make sure to visit on August , 15th , the national holiday of Liechtenstein . We 're celebrating then the birthday of the former prince that is not living anymore . In the morning you can go to visit the prince in the garden of his castle . This is n't as boring as it sounds since you get there free beer and wine . There will be enough , since the prince is n't poor . It is assumed that he owns more than 5 billions swiss francs . From lunch on there is a big public party in whole Vaduz . You can drink , eat , dance , talk , etc there and it lasts until early morning . As soon as it gets dark , there is another gift from the prince ;) A firework is started at the castle that can be seen from the whole valley and lasts for approximately 40 minutes . ( This pictures says more or less : Hail to God , the prince and the fatherland ! ) Sports If you 're a sportive guy I would recommend to do a daylong hike in the mountains and then go watch a soccer game in Vaduz . Start early in the morning in <URL> . There a really famous hike route starts that will you guide through sheer mountains along the border between Liechtenstein and Austria . Almost the whole path is built out of rock and a lot of steel ropes are necessary to make it save for hikers . You will also have to climb some ladders . At the end of the route you have the possibility to mount three sisters . No joke , the mountain is called three sisters ( Drei Schwestern in German ) and it is one of the most famous mountains in this region . Judging from the picture above it is not sure that you can easily access it , but if you 're free from giddiness it is n't a real problem . I added another picture to show you the situation on the path : If you 're interested in this tour , I can recommend a <URL> that describes a lot of mountain tours in the Alps . It is not only useful for Liechtenstein , but also for Switzerland , Germany and Austria . In the evening when you 're back in Vaduz , I would recommend to go to a soccer game . I would choose a game against a very famous opponent . <URL> , but from time to time there are some attractive opponents , e.g. Germany , Spain , Portugal or England . All past games can be found <URL> . The actual events will be posted on the <URL> of the Liechtenstein soccer association .
end question
start question
What services do US embassies provide to travelers ?
I am most familiar with the US Embassy in Delhi , India , since I was there for an extended period of time ( several months ) . You can always visit the website for the US Embassy wherever you are traveling ; they post a <URL> for American citizens . To summarize some of the big ones , US Embassies will help American citizens with the following : Obtaining vital records ( birth certificates , Social Security cards ) Replacing a lost or stolen passport or renewing a passport Arrest , abduction , or imprisonment of an American citizen Emergency medical evacuation or disposition of remains if an American citizen dies abroad Birth of a child , marriage , or divorce abroad ( getting the proper paperwork filled out ) Notarizing forms Filing US taxes abroad They also provide an immense array of resources : the websites and physical embassy locations usually have information ranging from disaster preparedness / ( historical ) likelihood of natural disasters to lists of medical offices in their consular areas to international driving laws . I believe most of them have some sort of " tips for Americans living in [ that location ] " section , too , with other miscellaneous information . US Embassies sometimes are a great cultural resource , too . ( I ca n't say this applies everywhere , but it 's true in India . ) In Delhi there was the American Center , which has a library and hosts music and dance performances , lectures , literary readings , etc. . Additionally , it 's a good idea to <URL> when you are traveling - particularly if you 're traveling to a somewhat dangerous area . If you register , you can provide them with a cell phone number where the Embassy will text you security and travel information . In the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster , they have a record of whether you were in the country , where you were staying , and how to contact you . And your family / friends back home in the US can call the Embassy for help or information , too . The US State Department has <URL> about what it can and can not do for American citizens abroad in emergency situations , particularly . Those are the big things that I know of that appear to be true for most US Embassies , but I would always check out the website of whatever locale is relevant to you if you want specific , concrete information .
Your best bet is to travel on Thanksgiving Day ( Thursday ) -- the airports wo n't be too crowded then , and fares are usually substantially cheaper . Tuesday might also be a cheap day , but try to avoid Wednesday at all costs -- it is one of the busiest travel days of the year in the US , if not the most . Since most people are traveling home to be with their families , good hotel deals should be much easier to find in Las Vegas than LA or SF . In most US cities , things will be pretty dead on Thanksgiving Day . Most stores and restaurants close early if they open at all , although I know from family traditions that movie theaters are open ( and popular ) after the early Thanksgiving Day feast . Just about everything is open extremely early ( ~ 5 AM in many cases ) the next day for Black Friday , the most popular shopping day of the year . Avoid the stores on that day , unless you 're looking to score some really cheap deals or you 're the kind of person that likes to witness complete chaos firsthand . And if you do somehow manage to arrive by Wednesday evening , that is a great " going-out " night as everyone hits the bars to let off steam before dealing with their families for the next four days .
I always recommend getting an international driving permit even if it is n't enforced . An IDL costs $ 25 US , takes 15 minutes , and can be picked up at any AAA ( If you are from the USA ) . They are handy if you get pulled over or as a second form of ( unofficial ) ID should something happen . Keep in mind it is only valid if you have you original license with you , so keep that handy .
Typical " earliest checkin " times are between 12:00 and 16:00 - but if your concern is luggage , it 's not really relevant as pretty much all hostels and hotels offer to safely store your luggage for you before checkin and after checkout . Some Hostels additionally have personal lockers , since dormitories are more or less publically accessible , so you do n't want to leave valuables in them .
Yes indeed , most US airlines charge for all check baggage . There are exceptions if you have " status " with either the airline themselves or with any of their affiliated airlines ( eg , Star Alliance , OneWorld , etc ) , or if you 're flying in First Class , or if you 're connecting from an international flight , or if you have one of their pay-for credit cards , but for most occasional domestic travellers you 'll be charged to check any bags . The fees vary from airline to airline , but are generally fairly similar . International trips are higher , although most airlines still do not charge for ( at least ) the first bag for most international trips . The fees are available on their airlines websites . eg , for both <URL> and <URL> it 's $ 25 for the first checked bag , and $ 35 for a second checked bag for domestic flights , and whilst the first bag is free for international flights the second will cost you up to $ 100 . <URL> depends on the type of ticket you have purchased , but is generally $ 25 for each of the first two check bags . The main exception to the above is <URL> , who do not charge anything to check your first 2 bags ( with standard weight limits/etc ) . Some airlines , such as <URL> , charge different rates depending on whether you pay for your checked bags in advance ( $ 28 / $ 35 for domestic up to 40 pound/18kg ) or at the airport ( $ 38 / $ 45 ) . Mind you , Spirit also charge you between $ 20 and $ 45 ( up to $ 100 starting in November ! ) for your carry-on bag , so avoiding them completely is generally the best option .
The specific terms under which an airline will rebook you , refund you , or otherwise are laid out in its Contract of Carriage ( or Conditions of Carriage ) , which in turn may be constrained by regulations in the country where the airline is based or where the flight is operated , as well as various international treaties . In the event of bad weather , most U.S.-based airlines will attempt to reschedule you on a later flight on the same airline . Naturally , this works out better on routes where there are twelve daily departures than where there are one , as with many international routes . Because phenomena like bad weather , volcanoes , sunspots , air traffic control restrictions , and the like affect all airlines , they are unlikely to endorse your ticket to a different carrier , unless the situation is extraordinary , or you are an extraordinarily high value customer to them . If you can not wait two days for the next available seat , they may issue a travel voucher or partial refund . For example , according to the <URL> , bad weather ( " meteorological conditions " ) constitutes a " Force Majeure Event " : American may , in the event of a force majeure event , without notice , cancel , terminate , divert , postpone or delay any flight or the right of carriage or reservation of traffic accommodations without liability except to issue an involuntary refund . The involuntary refund will be made in the original form of payment in accordance with involuntary refund rules for any unused portion of the ticket . American will also reserve the right to determine if any departure or landing should be made without any liability except the afore mentioned involuntary refund . Force majeure events encompass quite a few things that it is difficult to plan for ; from the <URL> these include a ) Any condition beyond UA 's control including , but not limited to , meteorological or geological conditions , acts of God , riots , terrorist activities , civil commotions , embargoes , wars , hostilities , disturbances , or unsettled international conditions , either actual , anticipated , threatened or reported , or any delay , demand , circumstances , or requirement due directly or indirectly to such condition ; b ) Any strike , work stoppage , slowdown , lockout , or any other labor-related dispute involving or affecting UA 's services ; c ) Any governmental regulation , demand or requirement ; d ) Any shortage of labor , fuel , or facilities of UA or others ; e ) Damage to UA 's Aircraft or equipment caused by another party ; f ) Any emergency situation requiring immediate care or protection for a person or property ; or g ) Any event not reasonably foreseen , anticipated or predicted by UA . Given that , I would say the best real protection is purchasing an insurance policy that will cover you in the event of the above situations , either by reimbursing you room and board while you wait or for alternative transportation . Be careful , though , as much travel insurance in fact excludes these very same conditions .
I just returned from my trip to Rwanda , and while I can not offer a definitive answer to my question , I can say from personal experience that I observed nobody searching the luggage of arriving travelers for plastic bags . I also agree with Michael Hampton 's comments about the English version of the law . It 's not very well written . The intent certainly seems to be to cover thin bags for shop purchases , not freezer bags . Unfortuntately , I forgot to note whether anyone looked at my plastic bag of carry-on liquids when I checked in for my departing flight . It also did not occur to me until just now that I should have looked in the supermarket to see whether they sell plastic freezer bags ( I suspect that they do ) . I will probably be returning to Rwanda in a couple of months ; if I do , I will edit this answer as I find more relevant information .
The process of transferring from an international flight into the US to a domestic flight is largely the same , regardless of which US airport you go through . The first thing you 'll do is go through immigration . Last time I was in Dulles I had to stand in line for this for about 40 minutes . If your visa is in order , the actual process only takes a minute or two . If there is an issue with it , this can take quite some time . Twice I 've been sent to ' the office ' for follow up questions . It has never taken more than a half hour though . Once you clear immigration , you pick up your luggage . Typically , your luggage will be on the baggage carousel by the time you clear immigration . You will always need to claim your luggage at this point . Even if it was checked through to your final destination . You then proceed through customs with your luggage ( this is why you need to claim it , since you go through customs here , not at your final destination ) . If your luggage was checked through to your final destination , there is usually a baggage re-check soon after you clear customs . They are intended for travelers such as yourself so you do n't have to haul the luggage to your airline 's check-in counter and baggage drop area which is possibly in another terminal ( although in your case , you wont need to change terminals ) . If your luggage is not checked through to your final destination , proceed to your airline 's check-in counters . You can also do this even if your luggage was checked through and you missed the baggage re-check . You may also need to claim your boarding pass from your airline 's check-in counters . Once you 've dropped off your luggage and you have your boarding pass , proceed to your gate , passing through security . When you clear customs , you will be on the ground floor , check-in counters are two floors up . See <URL> for more details . If you already have your boarding pass and use the baggage re-check , then you can proceed through security immediately , follow signs " TO ALL GATES " . See also this page on <URL> . Overall , this process will take at least 1 hour , more likely 1,5 hours . 3.5 hours should be plenty unless there is an issue with your visa .
China 's visa rules are rather simple in this matter , if you are applying for a visa in a country other than your citizenship , then you need to show proof that you are residing / traveling legally in that country . If you can not prove that you are in the USA legally using your Irish passport , then you have no choice but to apply with your US passport . While you could try the excuse that you are leaving on another trip and ca n't leave your US passport behind . But there is a good chance they will levy the USA fee , even though they are stamping the visa in your Irish passport .
I am no definite expert on the topic but this customization of a flight , called <URL> , are usually marketed to travel agents as a profit generator . First let 's clarify the different actors . The airlines offer and operate flights , the GDS ( Global Distribution System ) companies distribute the flights to travel agents and the latter sell to the traveller ( you ) . The travel agents can be your local travel agent in his office , the online travel agent ( OTA ) like Expedia , Opodo or Kayak , or the airline itself through its website , phone service or offices . In all cases the travel agent <URL> to the customer . The travel agent probably pays to implement the service distribution ( to the GDS ) and receives a fee per transaction made . As meal selection is not generally a lucrative option - it is usually free of charge and I think religious or allergic people would react badly if they had to pay to get a specific meal - it is not worth offering for the travel agents . As @drat commented , the airlines have also little incentives ( and higher logistic costs ) to offer them . So it makes sense not to offer meal choice directly online . Note that some OTAs offer a free text field at the end of the booking without promising it will be read by anyone ( I have seen that on govoyages , for example ) . In the case of Emirates and Singapore Airlines , I have in mind that their image is based on open-mindedness , globalization and respect of the culture of the travellers . I insist on the fact that it is the image I have , you might not feel the same . But offering a choice of meal is a good marketing argument for a world-wide growing airline . On the opposite , Air Transat mostly targets Canadians visiting the Caribbean and transatlantic travellers , with less of a variety of travellers . Offering a large variety of meals would be more a burden than a marketing argument to them . And Air Transat offers ancillary services on their website like seat selection , so it is a deliberate choice not to offer meal selection . In the end , I suppose that the reasons are economical . It costs less to offer less choice and not to prepare too many meals . It depends on the travel agent you buy your tickets from , but there is no rule for who offers meal selection or does not . If it matters a lot , you can try to buy your ticket from another travel agent , it might work better .
The reciprocity fee is currently US$ 160 for US citizens , and can now be paid online in advance via the website <URL> . There is a PDF guide on paying the fee <URL> ( The entire guide is in English except for the country name of the US , which is in Spanish - " Estados Unidos " ) Not surprisingly , this matches the fee the US charges for non-immigrant visa applications , which is currently <URL> - that 's why it 's called a " reciprocity fee " .
It very much depends on the hostel . Some provide amazing kitchens with multiple ovens , fridges and every utensil you can imagine . Others require a cash deposit to use pots , cutlery etc. . Generally , no , you do n't need to bring if it 's a highly rated hostel on hostelbookers or hostelworld - read the reviews and if there 's a " great kitchen " comment , it 's a good sign . The lower end ones . . sometimes are lacking a bit in facilities . Some really rough ones have n't even had kitchens available for use . The reviews are your friend - even if you do n't book on the sites , it 's handy to look through for comments about what you want - be it wifi , a kitchen , or warnings about bedbugs .
So as you have realised , a visa is required for tourist purposes for citizens of Saudi Arabia visiting South Africa . It depends a little on how thorough you want to be - but basically , the more prepared you are , the better chance you have . For example , the most <URL> include : Passport valid for 6 months beyond date of departure . 2 passport-size photos with signature on reverse side . 1 completed application form ( failure to complete the application fully and in detail may result in visa being delayed or refused ) . Proof of sufficient funds to cover visit . Onward/return ticket and , if in transit , proof of sufficient documentation for admission to the country of destination . Extra ones that <URL> include : No criminal record ( if you have proof of this , it could be useful ) Be of sound body and mind ( hard to prove this though ! ) A plan describing your intent while in South Africa - where you 're staying , what you want to do Evidence of hotels booked , car rentals and the like Contacts in case of emergency in South Africa ( if you have any ) A vaccination certificate Passport valid for no less than 30 days after the expiry of the intended visit . Proof of travel insurance / medical cover Now the problem you have is most sites seem to say it can take 3-10 days to process . Of course as you travel a lot , you 're probably aware that money can usually make these delays go away . Talk nicely to the embassy staff , ask if there 's anything extra they might need , make sure all your documents are nicely organised , ask them about South Africa while talking - see if they 're from there and if they have favourite places ( makes a connection , meaning more chance of them helping you out ) .
The airport itself is in the middle of nowhere , I do n't think there is any walkable attraction around but the public transport connections are very good . If you did not plan to go there during the next days and did not have to worry about a small kid , taking the train to the center of Amsterdam would be the obvious choice . I do n't know Hoofddorp itself but note that the area was a lake until the 19th century . The city was created from scratch after the land was reclaimed so you should not expect a typical historical Dutch town ( but that might be interesting in itself ) . The pumping stations and the countryside in the vicinity ( <URL> and the area around Buitenkaag and the <URL> ) are definitely worth a visit if you are interested in the history of the landscape but they are not so easily reachable and you would need more time than an evening to go there . As far as restaurants are concerned , iens.nl is probably the most popular website in the Netherlands . <URL>
The passport card is a card -- it does n't have any pages to it , thus there is no place for visas or entry/exit stamps . Thus , it can only be used to travel to places where no visa is needed and where there are treaties in place to ensure that enough data is exchanged between immigration departments so that they can keep track of you without stamps . As the use of the cards usually involve bilateral and reciprocal treaties -- and few countries have passport cards to reciprocate -- it 's unlikely that more countries will accept American passport cards in the near future .
There are multiple purposes for scanning the passport : They confirm the legitimacy of the document . It pulls up your record in their internal/system databases . It pulls up your immigration history . It pulls up your information from other related government organizations ( for example , the State department - which issues the visas ) Keeping in mind that INS is a federal agency ; it is reasonable to believe they have information on people that is available at the federal level - for example , a federal warrant . As far as seeing things in other countries ; to an extent they demand this information because all people traveling to the US are subject to delivery of their API ( Advanced Passenger Information ) which includes information about your itinerary , port of embark/disembark ; travel documents ; travel reservation information and possibly payment method ( s ) . So already they have a large treasure of your information . As far as sharing information - the most common source of shared information on non-citizens is Interpol ( the International Police ) which is what some governments ( and private organizations ) can use . Interpol does issue arrest warrants which are ( supposed ) to be honored by all those states that are bound to the Interpol agreement . This is one source of shared information . Of course beyond this , countries with close diplomatic relations or other intelligence agreements do share information . The US is party to such agreements such as the <URL> ( which covers the UK , Canada , New Zealand , Australia ) and involves sharing of information and intelligence . Such information is used ( among other areas ) for screening passengers to identify high-risk or otherwise flagged persons . However , unless explicitly shared - this information is not visible beyond the normal purview of the agency that holds the information . For example , your speeding ticket in the US is not available to the border control in the UK ( and vice versa ) .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
I am curious , though , if a US citizen could potentially * be prosecuted upon returning home for " breaking US laws while on foreign soil " . Yes . The U.S. maintains embargoes against <URL> . Many of these include travel restrictions . The U.S. government generally <URL> that U.S. citizens are liable for taxes , regardless of where they live . Many countries have tax treaties with the U.S. that in some cases reduces or eliminates this burden , but in general , if you are a U.S. citizen and you make enough money in a foreign country , the U.S. government will expect you to pay U.S. taxes . ( Here 's a Wall Street Journal blog entry on the subject : " <URL> " ) It is against U.S. law ( the <URL> ) to bribe foreign officials . I would also guess that the U.S. sometimes has jurisdiction in foreign countries . Obvious examples would be military bases and embassies , but perhaps also in matters pertaining to U.S.-registered ships and aircraft ( ?? ) . References <URL>
One option ( that may not suit you exactly , but will be useful for other searchers of a question like this ) is <URL> . <URL> described it as the solution to the problem " Have you ever met that special someone on a plane but for whatever reason you did n't end up exchanging your contact details with each other and later regretted it ? Without their name , how are you going to find them on Facebook ? "
Not all of them do . It definitely depends on which site you use , and what style of accommodation you are after . Generally , people going on holiday often have someone with them - a significant other , so often it 's based on 2 people sharing . Especially vacation prices . However , if you 're looking for say , hostels , it 's on a per-person basis ( eg <URL> ) . And if you 're looking at hotels for a single person , <URL> allows you to sort on a per-single-person room for prices , which I 've found useful in the past .
end question
start question
How to get from Gdańsk ferry terminal to Gdańsk railway station ?
You can check public transport on site <URL> I made a <URL> to your connection ; you can change the time , date and places of start and end ( by right-click ) . It 's very important wheter your journey will be at weekend or on a workday . At workdays buses and trams runs more often . Anyway , I think that in your case a taxi is the only reasonable and safe solution , because the amount of time is too little to travel by public transport . It would take about 40 mins and you need time to find your bus stop , find platform on railway station etc. . Obviously you can book the taxi in advance . In Poland such companies are usually called " ( Something ) Radio Taxi " , so you can just Google it searching for Radio Taxi Gdańsk . Examples ( with websites in English ) : <URL> <URL>
Yes you can . Terminal 1 and Terminal 3 are adjacent to each other . The odd terminal is Terminal 2 , which is a few kilometers away .
If you arrive at Terminal 1 on a through ticket , or have checked your luggage to final destination , or are travelling with hand luggage only , you should be able to do an airside transfer from terminal 1 . Terminal 5 is only for security checks for departing passengers and after passing security , all airside facilities actually exist at Terminal 3 , including departure gates , shops and airline lounges . This is the relevant information for <URL> . Note that there is no mention of Terminal 5 since the departures will be from the Terminal 3 G &amp; H gates . Here is a <URL> on Flyertalk which sounds similar to your situation , i.e. arriving on a domestic Alitalia flight and transferring to a flight to the USA . If you do need to collect luggage at Terminal 1 , you would exit landside and take relatively short walk to Terminal 3 , although there are additional shuttle buses that circulate from the long term parking areas to the terminals that you could take from Terminal 1 to Terminal 3 if walking is a problem .
According to <URL> ( Japanese only ) a standard letter from Osaka to Tokyo will be delivered " next day " .
Options I found : Fly directly from Singapore to <URL> for circa 90 USD . Bus from Singapore to <URL> with <URL> for circa 3 USD , then direct flight to <URL> with Airasia for circa 40 USD . So a total of circa ** USD ** . Note that <URL> . I took this bus in May 2015 &amp; it took around 1h45 to do the bus journey at a low-peak time , allow at least 3h if travelling on a week end or public holiday . Fly to <URL> ( Malaysia ) for circa 30 USD , then fly to <URL> for circa 30 USD . Found those prices using <URL> . So a total of circa 60 USD Take the ferry to <URL> for circa 22 USD ( 45 min ride ) , then take another ferry to <URL> with the <URL> for circa 25 USD ( this one is a long ride , 6 to 8h ) . As explained in <URL> " To buy the ticket from Dumai , you need to visit a ticket agent who will sort you out -- there 's no need to go to the port to buy a ticket . " , &amp; there does seem to be only 1 ( yes one ! ) ferry per day . So this means potentially having to stay in Batam overnight ( who knows ? ) . Then <URL> for circa 13 USD . So a total of circa 60 USD All in all , my research seem to always point to taking a plane rather than a ferry ... unless you really have a special reason for avoiding planes ( transporting loads of luggages , transporting a bike , fear of planes , or else ) . Here is another good reason not to take the ferry in Indonesia <URL> Note : you must add circa 12 USD to every flight with AirAsia if you have a checked baggage Note regarding trains going from Singapore to Johor Bahru : There 's no point in taking the train to JB , the new terminal is very inconvenient and services are infrequent and unreliable . Take a bus instead . Final note : there is nothing " special " to do in Medan , so if you arrive before 4pm try to plan your journey to your final destination straight from Medan ( typically using a tourist bus or a public bus ) , roads can be dangerous at night so many transports do not work when it 's dark ( after 7pm ) . The hotel/hostel hosting you can provide more info , it 's a typical thing to do . Resources : AirAsia route map : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
I ca n't tell you why you get no results with a Google transit search , but I can tell you that you wo n't find anything useful searching the OC Transpo web site unless you already know exactly where you 're going , and it wo n't show you what you need to know anyway since OC Transpo does n't really go into Gatineau . So , here 's the kind of so-so news . There are buses which reach the southermost edges of the park boundaries , but they do not go into or around the park , and do not reach as far as the visitor centre or many of the places within the park you might want to go . You 'll have a bit of a hike ahead of you . Fortunately there are plenty of hiking trails ... So , <URL> routes 35 and 48 reach the southeast and southwest boundaries of the park respectively , and you can get either of these in downtown Ottawa . They enter Wellington Street at the Portage Bridge and travel to their last Ottawa stop at Rideaux and Cumberland , before returning to Gatineau via King Edward Avenue . The <URL> shows a few other routes which overlap those at some points , in case those might also be useful to you . ( For instance , routes 35 and 48 only run Monday-Friday , and you may want to find a weekend bus . ) Cash fare is $ 3.90 , and some discounts are available .
Apparently no , according to <URL> Round Trip tickets are station-specific and can be used for 1 return journey on the Airport Express between Airport and the station specified . On the other hand , why would you want this ? Roundtrip from airport to Hong Kong is 180 HKD . However two one-ways airport - Hong Kong and Kowloon - airport is 100 + 90 = 190 . So your savings are 10 HKD , a coffee . However if you really need to save 10 HKD , then do not take Express at all . Take one of the <URL> , which will cost up to 50 HKD . This will be quite slow , but some buses have free Wi-Fi , and you 'll see some scenery .
I live in Singapore , and have taken ferries to Batam and Bintan ( another nearby island ) . Let me first clear up the confusion you have acquired by reading that page on Travelfish.org . They mention that the ferry to Indonesia takes " a couple of days " and " is no cheaper than flying . " They are not referring to the ferry to Batam , but rather to the overall journey from Singapore to Java , which as outlined in the article takes three legs , Batam being the first , easiest , and least significant . With that out of the way : these ferries are extremely safe . The terminal and vessels bear some resemblance to a small airport , and none to the sometimes-chaotic " bumboat " ferries that make short trips elsewhere in the region . The ships are proper ships , with proper seating , very seaworthy in appearance , and completely sealed against the weather ( which is often calm anyway ) . The ferry trip is not very long and the crew are professional . Singaporeans in general are not people who tolerate unsafe conditions ( and there are plenty of them taking these ferries , due to work and also the many golf courses in Batam and Bintan ) . Enjoy the trip . If it were n't for the interesting scenes of cargo ships everywhere , you 'd probably find it boring !
You can take the metro from Ataturk Airport to Esenler " Otogar " ( much nearer than Harem ) . From the <URL> , you can see the timetable , Metro runs until Midnight ( 00.00 ) . From Esenler Otogar you can get a suitable coach for your travel .
I did a lot of googeling during the last few days and I finally found a more or less cheap flight . It seems that <URL> has regular flights from Zurich to Elba . Unfortunately I could n't find these flights neither on ebookers nor on some well-known matrix flight search engines . However , <URL> starting at 112 Euros . So it is cheaper and faster than taking the train .
From Genova ( Piazza Principe or Brignole ) , take a regional train with the destination of La Spezia Centrale . There are direct trains to 3 of the 5 villages , so depending on your preference , buy a ticket to one of : Monterosso ( northernmost ) Vernazza ( 2nd from north ) Riomaggiore ( southernmost ) But note that there are many more direct connections to Monterosso than to Vernazza and Riomaggiore . To Monterosso travel time is 1h 45 min , and it costs 6.60 $ ( Nov 2012 ) . Buy the ticket from the station ; remember to stamp it on one of the Italian-flag-coloured devices near the platform before boarding the train . There 's roughly one regional train per hour , from 04:53 until about 22:00 . Here 's an example of the timetable for one such regional train : There are also direct intercity trains to Monterosso every few hours that take 1h 15min and cost 9.50 $ . For more details , try the <URL> ( e.g. Genova Piazza Principe to Monterosso ) . In my case it was slightly run-down urban 2-storey carriage with dirty windows . Not as charming as the villages , but gets you there quite smoothly . :)
Guayaquil is a better bet for departure and the drive from Cuenca is spectacular . Round trip from Guayaquil to Arequipa presently costs $ 321 on LAN . Keep in mind that prices fluctuate and will go up as you get closer to your travel date because the cheaper seats get used first . Figure 2 or 3 hours drive from Cuenca to Guayaquil . For your trip , Guayaquil-Lima-Arequipa is the route to take . You can save about $ 60 if you take an extra 7 hour drive from Guayaquil to Piura but I think you would not have much savings left when you factor transport and hotel which may be needed between . If you do it all on a single airline , there is less hassle but you have fewer choices . You may look at doing the Lima-Arequipa way on <URL> but it looks like doing both with LAN is cheaper at this time . The road from Lima to Arequipa has some sites to keep you busy but it is desolated and long . Figure around 12 hours excluding stops . The driving conditions are very good though along the entire Peru coast , although I have only done it both ways twice and prefer to fly one way . To get variety , once I did the northern coast ( Lima-Mancora ) and came back through the cordilera but that is considerably slower and with very difficult driving conditions for large segments . Definitely Guayaquil to Lima should be a flight if you are not interested in the area . There are some gems of cultural interest , colonial towns but lots of empty space in between .
By public transport it 's little harder to get there , but yes , it is possible : 1 ) Go to Brno first . The easiest and most comfortable is by bus with the company <URL> ( it 's very popular transport - I recommend to buy a ticket in advance - you can do it online ) 2 ) Brno to Blansko by train and Blansko to Punkva caves by bus Search departures on <URL> ( there is English version ) Fill in : and enjoy beauties of Czech Republic ! :)
Nobody will be offended . It is a common practice among children to search for amber or shells . However I would not expect too much . Amber can be easily mistaken with other rocks and if you ever find something it would be rather of a small size . The beaches along the whole coast are easily accessible and I can hardly believe in the existence of hot spots .
<URL> goes from Motobu ( 本部 ) to Kagoshima ( 鹿児島 ) around twice weekly , but the price difference is marginal : <URL> : & yen ; 15,200 in 2nd class <URL> : & yen ; 14,300 in 2nd class And by remarkable coincidence , the <URL> are precisely the same .
* ( first of all , I only recommend this if you 're happy to quickly selectively skip around the top attractions in a museum before moving on to the next one . Each one of the 5 museums you 've mentioned is huge , with enough for two or more full days ' visits by someone very interested , and a full day each for someone moderately interested ) * If you really do n't mind skipping to see the best stuff and then heading on , after your very busy day in South Kensington as DJClayworth suggests , you could : <URL> early in the morning , selectively walk around the bits you 're most interested in Either walk ( 20 mins , not much to see ) or get a bus ( any bus ) down High Holborn to St Paul 's Take a quick look at St Paul 's Cathedral while you 're there , it 's pretty spectacular , but probably do n't go in today ... Continue with a short 10 minute walk south along the Millenium Bridge ( pedestrians-only , good views of the river ) ... ... which takes you right to the door of the Tate Modern . It also works going the other way , Tate first ; it 's a question of where you want to be in the evening . The British Museum and Tate Modern are n't as close to each other as the South Kensington museums , but they 're still pretty close and it 's rather nice that the route between them can go via St Paul 's and the Millenium Bridge without really adding any time .
There is no public transportation connecting Abant Lake to Bolu or any other city . You can either rent a car and go there yourself or find a tour from Bolu or even from Istanbul that takes you there . Other option would be renting a car with a driver from the hotel directly ( this is done in all Turkish hotels easily ) , this is the most expensive option but at the same time it is the most convenient one .
The Paris transport operator , <URL> You can input your start point , end point , and start time , and it will suggest routes to you . If you do n't want to worry about the bus , you can restrict it to rail ( so Train , RER and Metro ) only . Make sure you search for Aeroport or similar as your start point however , as France is full of places named after Charles De Gaulle . For your journey , the exact answer depends on the time of day you arrive , but taking the RER B to Châtelet-Les Halles and then the Metro line 7 towards Mairie d'Ivry looks the most straightforward . Châtelet is a big and confusing interchange however , so be ready for that . Broadly speaking , there are several main components of the Paris transport system : RER : this is the light rail system that links the suburbs of Paris ( including Aéroport Roissy-Charles De Gaulle ) and the city . It runs relatively fast , goes through very deep tunnels in the city itself , and each line will only have 3-5 stops within the city of Paris . The lines are given letters as names ( the one that goes to CDG airport is B ) . Arriving at CDG airport , you will see signs in the airport ( after bag collection ) saying " Paris by Train " - these will take you to the RER stop . Metro : this is the light rail system within the city , a conventional " subway " or " underground " type service . Services and stops are very frequent . As the stops are often close together ( in many places you can see the next platform from the one you are waiting at ) it often does n't make sense to use the metro unless you are travelling quite a few stops . Most metro lines either do n't leave the city proper , or only travel a very short distance outside . The metro is probably the most used service by tourists . Metro lines are identified by a number . Pierre et Marie Curie is on line 7 Bus : these are buses . There are huge numbers of them , and they go everywhere . Services like Roissybus run from the Airport to Opera . Buses can be intimidating to tourists , as you ca n't readily see on a map where they go and are subject to Parisian traffic . However , they can be both the cheapest and quickest way to get about ( CDG - Gallieni was much quicker by bus than RER + Metro for example ) . Buses are identified by number ( mostly ) , with numbers of up to three digits . Tram these are mounted on rails , but mostly sharing road space with other vehicles . They largely run " around " the ring of Paris , as opposed to the RER and Metro which largely run radially from the city centre . Trams are denoted by a T and a number . You can see Trams ( dashed lines ) , RER ( thick lines ) , Metro ( thin lines ) and mainline train services ( double lines , linked ) on the <URL> ( You can see CDG airport to the north-east ) . RATP <URL> , and paper maps once you get to Paris . There are a large amount of ticket options available . For the sake of your specific journey , you are probably best off buying a single ticket from the airport , to your destination , from a machine or office at the airport station . For future journeys , you may find a standard ticket , or a pass useful , but as CDG is a long way out , a pass that covers that journey to is probably bad value . You can read a full description of tickets ( in French ) here , including the " Billet Origine-Destination " <URL> There is <URL>
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
end question
start question
How does data roaming work with prepaid SIM cards in Europe ?
Since the card is prepaid , is there any reason to not keep using it until it cuts off ? You might want to keep it for voice use only ( where roaming charges are not as high ) as a backup or when you enter a new country and do n't have a local SIM card yet . Theoretically , you can also cash out unused credit under some circumstances , but it 's probably not worth the hassle . ( And when we that be ? There 's $ 10 of voice credit with the account . ) It depends on the details of your Belgian provider 's terms of service , but typically the roaming data usage will eat into that credit , and once it 's used up ( probably after a few MB ) it will stop working . There are some prepaid plans that will automatically top up the credit from your bank account or credit card every time it runs out , but this is usually a feature you have to activate separately ( and should , of course , avoid ) .
The best I can recommend to you is to become a <URL> ( Deutscher Alpenverein , DAV ) or the <URL> ( ÖAV , all links in German ) . Membership costs varies depending on the " Sektion " you choose to become a member of ( you can choose freely and I know many people who choose one purely based on cost ) but is in the range of EUR50 and comes with <URL> ( through ASS for the DAV ) . @Relaxed suggests in <URL> that the ÖAV should be your first try , as they have a <URL> and <URL> as well as less restrictions in their terms and conditions . I second that advice ! What you get is Search and rescue costs up to $ 25,000 Repatriation with no upper cost limit Reimbursement of expenses due to hospitalisation after accidents occurring in the course of leisure activities or business as well as illness , up to $ 10,000 Third party liability insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 3,000,000 Legal expenses insurance within Europe for many sporting activities , up to $ 35,000 <URL> You will want to look to the " A " column ( full member ) which you can sort . Currently it seems the " Alpenfreunde Euskirchen " are the cheapest at EUR40 annually . At first search I could not find a homepage for them so you might be happier at another , more internet-affine " Sektion " . In Austria the fees seem to be the same across sections and <URL> , currently you pay EUR61 per annum to be a full member , but they mention extra charges for members from abroad due to higher processing expenses .
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
In short : no . Mostly , credit card acceptance in Germany is still the exception rather than the norm . There are a couple of places , however , where you can expect at least Visa and MC to be accepted , most notably ATMs and gas stations . Be prepared to pay in cash everywhere else .
You can buy the 4G SIM card in Telkomsel Grapari in Jakarta and Bali , read <URL> under " Terms and Conditions " . You can find the address list <URL> .
Data via cellphone is one of <URL> . Vendors are shifting from 3G to 4G , starting in the area around Montevideo . From a consumer 's standpoint the only discouraging trend in this market is the adoption of data volume caps by all vendors . As of August 2012 no vendor web-site offered an unlimited mobile internet data plan ( the closest was an " unlimited during nights and weekends " from Claro . ) In terms of prepaid data plans , there are several available , from Claro , Antel or Movistar . I wo n't copy and paste verbatim as I 'm sure they 're likely to change with time , but an up-to-date wiki is maintained at <URL> on APNCharger.org .
Its open only for Indian or Nepalese citizens . Its not open for citizens of other countries . <URL> which says Indian citizen entering Nepal should have proper identity to prove that they are valid Indian citizens , that means no need of visa . And <URL> . On first line it says : Introductory Information Except Bhutan &amp; Nepal Nationals all foreign nationals including children MUST obtain a visa to travel to India . Hope this helps And if you are travelling on a car or bikes or any means of transport from one country to another between India and Nepal , you have to make an entry at border check point but its always wise to get a letter ( like No objection Letter for a car , bike ) from respective embassy from current country .
<URL> offers cash passports : You can choose to pick up your currency in one of our many stores or have it delivered directly to your door . It covers many of the major currencies , including Japanese YEN . <URL> You can buy at their counters in most major international airports , or online in advance .
is it likely that my US-issued card will be generally usable in the UK and other countries with the chip-and-pin system , or should I be ready to exchange cash ? You should be able to use your card at most places , in the UK and other countries too . At least ATMs and most shops accept it , while some vending machines may require a chip-and-pin ( i.e. <URL> ) card . <URL> has this to say ( regarding UK &amp; Ireland ) : While most terminals will still accept a magnetic strip card , and the major credit card brands require vendors to accept them , poorly trained staff may refuse to take the card under the mistaken belief that they will be held liable for any fraud if the card can not verify a PIN . Non-chip-and-PIN cards may also not work in some unattended vending machines at , for example , transport stations . If you 're still worried , there are options like this : In 2010 a number of companies began issuing pre-paid debit cards that incorporate the Chip &amp; PIN which allows Americans to load up cash as Euros or British Pounds . In Finland , <URL> : blue for chip cards and yellow for legacy cards with only magnetic stripe . ( In most counties using EMV there 's just one slot for both kinds of cards though , AFAIK . ) Photo credit : <URL>
If you 're looking for warm weather , crystalline water and amazing scenery I would suggest either Corsica or Sardinia . Corsica has wonderful beaches in the north western and southern part of the island . In the north Ficajola comes to mind although the island is amazing all around . In Sardinia the Costa Smeralda in the north is famous for it 's stunning emerald green waters : take <URL> as an example . Prices there will be on the high end though . If you 're looking for something that does n't involve a ferry , the south western part of Puglia , namely Salento , has some pretty nice beaches too . Setting aside the natural parc of Porto Selvaggio , there 's also a place called <URL> which kinda lives up to its name water and sand wise . Finally there 's a similar place in Liguria , namely <URL> where the water is crystal clear reminding you of the tropics .
You 're going to have to dig really deep into the specs of the phone to answer your question . The issue is not the features themselves but the frequency spectrum on which these features are available . You can look at : <URL> <URL> to see what is typically available in Israel . From experience : IPhone 4S from AT&amp;T works like a charm in Israel for both Data and Voice . As far as I know GSM Voice Frequencies used in Israel are : 800 ( old , possibly decommissioned ) , 900 , 1800 , which IPhone and most Androids support . The rest you will have to find out . Now if you wanted to use CDMA , like Verizon does in Israel , roaming does n't work on Cellcom 's network as far as last information I have .
From some research , it looks like my two main options are T-Mobile and AT&amp;T GoPhone . Looking first at <URL> , it looks like Canadian Roaming is <URL> but possible . I 've found a <URL> from one of their employees from a month or so ago which confirms : calls will have a roaming fee of $ 0.49 a minute if calling a Canadian number , and an additional $ 0.20 per minute if calling a U.S. number . Also , incoming texts will deduct from whatever package you currently have at no additional charge whereas outgoing will cost $ 0.35 a message , and plus an additional $ 0.20 if you do not have a text package , or go over your text package . One more thing , web is $ 10 per MB when roaming in Canada . Moving on then to <URL> , they have all the info in a handy <URL> . Short answer is that AT&amp;T GoPhone automatically works roaming in Canada and Mexico , without needing to opt in . Calls in Canada ( made or received ) are apparently $ 0.39 / minute , texts are $ 0.25 / $ 0.20 to send/receive , and data is an eye-watering $ 20/mb . . Alternately , if I go for one sim card in each country , then Rogers currently offer <URL> or <URL> . Looks therefore like as I 'll be doing half my time in each country , I 'll be better off just buying a simcard in each . However , for much shorter trips or short trips with no data needs , roaming is possible and might be better for people in that situation .
Fortunately , Indonesia is not <URL> . Here 's how to do it : Walk outside your hotel , pick up a rock , throw it . It will land on a shopping mall , convenience store , corner shop , wartel or guy squatting on the pavement festooned with colorful signs for <URL> ( IM3 ) , <URL> ( simPATI ) or <URL> . Hand over around Rp 10,000 ( $ 1 ) , preferably while showing them your phone and its SIM card slot to make sure they give you the right size . Enjoy your shiny new microSIM !
Slightly more than a year ago , on 2011-12-30 CET , as a German citizen , I bought a prepaid card in an <URL> shop in <URL> / Les Halles , Paris . That 's an 11 min travel by public transport ( <URL> ) from Arc de Triomphe . The price for the card was 5 EUR , incl . 5 EUR of credit . I then charged the card with 15 EUR , bought at a <URL> just around the corner , because in the Orange shop that was not possible . The Orange card has an option called Internet max that can be activated either in the SIM card menu somewhere under Multimedia , or online . See the screenshot below : Currently it offers 500MB for 9 EUR per month . Activation of the option took some hours . Tethering did not work , but I believe that it 's possible to hack around that . Note that in the shop they told me that with a standard Orange prepaid card the data option is not available . They are wrong !
Yep , that 's it . You apply online and get approved , and pay online . You can print it off if it gives you some more anxiety , but literally when I 've used it , I walk up , the official goes " do you have a visa or are you on ESTA ? " , and he scans the passport and has always found it . I 've usually had the approval number or whatever on me , but I 've never needed to show it . The airline might ask for evidence of it , however . It 's pretty smooth , I get more questions about what I plan on doing in the US , rather than how I enter it . Note that it 's <URL> . As an aside it 's reasonably easy to get info on this online from the official sites : From <URL> : It is important to PRINT a copy of the document for your records . The printout is not required upon arrival into the United States , as the officers have the information electronically . Some airlines require the printout upon check-in , please check with your respective airline . and also <URL> : Do I need to bring a printed copy of my ESTA application with me to the airport ? U.S. regulation does NOT require a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) traveler to present a printed copy of the ESTA authorization page in order to travel . However , it is recommended that you print a copy for your records . Also , some airlines may ask you to bring a copy , in which case you should print it out . If you applied for ESTA and you have forgotten your application number , you may retrieve the application through the ESTA website by entering the applicants name , date of birth , passport number and passport issuing country .
The bio-date page of a passport is the page with your biographical data ( name , date of birth , passport number , expiration date , etc. . . ) . Most passports will also show your picture on this page , along with the <URL> at the bottom . Examples : <URL> Public domain <URL> Source : <URL>
The pertinent information is <URL> , in Dutch . Bicycles are only allowed in the metro ( subway ) and in tram line 26 , not in other tram lines or bus lines . GVB also does n't have any trains , if you want to take the bicycle on a train , you 'll need different tickets entirely ( both for yourself and for the bike ) . The GVB supplement is valid for an entire day ( so does n't depend on the number of times you embark ) , but not during rush hour : bicycles are n't allowed between 7:00 -9:00 and 16:00 -18:30 . This is the rule in trains as well , by the way . In tram 26 you can buy a paper supplement at the driver , otherwise the ticket has to be loaded onto an " OV chipkaart " at a machine . I feel the need to add -- if you have a bicycle , why not just ride it :-)
Well , turns out this is really easy - I just entered a store and asked for a monthly plan which includes unlimited data , and the clerk was happy to offer me a choice between a couple of available plans , without any requirement except a credit card ( no need for zip code or credit check or American credit card / address ) . The store was T-Mobile , but I think other carriers offer similar deals as well . Just be aware that the listed plan prices usually do not include sim cost or one-time activation fee . Still , travelling with an Internet-enabled smartphone is amazing , and definitely worth some money . The sim card was activated almost immediately - I was able to data-surf while still in the store .
My personal experience has been that it 's best to get a SIM card for each country I travel in . Local providers almost always have the best deals , and buying SIM cards is relatively inexpensive . Especially in Asian countries ( where I have more travel experience ) you can easily pick up SIM cards at shopping kiosks almost anywhere , and the rates are really very cheap compared to where I live ( New Zealand ) . Data roaming from international providers is also very expensive ; as an example with my New Zealand cellphone provider in China I would pay $ US25 + a megabyte , whereas buying a local SIM card it cost me $ US8 for 250 megabytes .
I contacted visatorussia and got a quick answer to this question : If you do not plan to stay at a hotel , please leave the field blank . A hotel will then be mentioned in your invitation for form 's sake and you will have to indicate the same hotel in your consulate application form . This way you will obtain a tourist visa with no complications and once in Russia , you will be able to choose accommodation in accordance with your convenience .
end question
start question
Do tourists need a special visa to enter the Chukotka District in Russia ?
Yes , both foreigners and Russian citizens usually need a special permission to enter regions in Russia designated as border zones and Chukotka is one of them . On <URL> , you can along the Finnish border find some of the signs indicating the start of the regulated border zone . This might sound as an odd , paranoid remnant from the communist era , but you will actually find a similar , though not so broad ( up to 3km ) , <URL> , for which you need a special permit to enter as well . The Chukotka government offers a web page in English on the subject <URL> , but the text is somewhat confusing and addresses the ' inviting party ' . The thing is , that to obtain a border zone entry permit , you need a formal ' invitation ' from a subject within the border zone and the government 's information page seem to indicate that the inviting party must apply for the permit on your behalf . Such an ' invitation ' is by the way even required for a regular Russian tourist visa and for tourists in most cases issued by a Russian tourist agency . Even if I ca n't find any tangible information , I would be pretty sure that you need assistance from a Chukotkan tourist agency for them to apply for an entry permit on your behalf . On the web site visitchukotka.com , you can both find a list of <URL> and some details on the <URL> they offer .
Fortunately the <URL> is quite comprehensive and useful in this case . If you wish to leave the airport i.e you exit out of the airport ( in this case to travel to another airport ) , this is called a Landside transit . You will need a <URL> in order to do so i.e for the LTN to LHR transit . As pointed out by @AndreyChernyakhovskiy , unfortunately the case of Ireland is a little bit more complicated than you would imagine . This is due to the <URL> agreement . Underneath CTA , the flights leaving from British Airports to Ireland are considered short-haul international flights . Thus , they depart from the domestic terminal instead . In order to do this you will need a landside transit visa . More information can be found on the <URL> and the <URL> which clearly state this information as well . If you were an Iranian Citizen traveling to Ireland somehow without passing thru border control i.e doing an airside transit , <URL> . One thing to note here is the exemptions . You would have been exempted from the visa if you were to have : a valid uniform format category D visa for entry to a state in the European Economic Area ( EEA ) Ireland counts as a state in the EEA and thus if you have a <URL> ( i.e a long stay visa ) , you do n't not need a Direct Airside Transit Visa for the UK . In all other cases , otherwise you will need a landside visa and as far as I can see , the only way to get to Ireland from the UK involves passing thru border control at the airport .
Short answer : Yes Long Answer : You are required to have the following : Ghanaian visa application form Original , signed United States passport with at least 6 months of remaining validity Two passport-size photographs of applicant . Should be taken at least within the last three months Visa Fee - money order , postal order , cashiers check or certified bank check Itinerary Evidence of financial support or letter of invitation from host in Ghana All persons entering Ghana are requested to have a valid certificate of immunization against yellow fever . Travelers may be required to present it at the port of entry in Ghana . Applications submitted by mail must be accompanied by prepaid self-addressed overnight , trackable envelope ( FEDEX ) for return of passports . Only requests accompanied by certified prepaid return envelopes will be processed . Source / Credit : <URL>
<URL> You can then extend this for another 30 days by paying a fee . Visas on Arrival If your country of nationality appears on the list below , no advance visa arrangements are required to visit the UAE . Simply disembark your flight at Dubai International Airport and proceed to Immigration , where your passport will be stamped with a 30-day visit visa free of charge . This can be extended for an additional 30 days at an additional charge . <URL>
There 's good news and bad news . The good news - <URL> , except the church land , private gardens and near water reservoirs . We researched this in 2008 and found many , many resources online saying it 's perfectly fine to camp even on the side of the road . We even checked this with locals in Novosibirsk when we got there . However , they suggested that while it 's cool and all , it 's safer to camp in a campsite as there 's security . And we could register with the campsite owner . The bad news - the campsite owners did n't do registration . However on subsequent trips to Russia , I 've found a lot of places claim to not do registration , or will come up with all sorts of excuses why they ca n't do it ( weekend , only staying a day , etc etc ) . The way around this is to find a travel agent , as it 's possible to register there . Or find a hostel and ask them to register you there for a week . That 's what most who were willing would do for me , as it made no difference to them , and would increase the odds of me staying there if I was already registered . And this <URL> also points out it 's possible to go and register at a Russian police station . Personally though , I 'd exhaust the travel agency / hostel tricks first before approaching the police about an ' unusual ' situation ( see <URL> ) .
Indian nationals do not require a visa to enter Nepal . As per the Nepalese immigration , Indian nationals traveling to Nepal must posses any one of the following documents : Passport . Driving License with photo . Photo Identity card issued by a Government Agency . Ration Card with Photo . Election Commission Card with Photo . Identity Card issued by Embassy of India in Kathmandu . Identity Card with photo issued by sub-divisional magistrate or any other officials above his rank . Also , please check with your nearest travel agents for documents required by the Indian Immigration for Indians traveling to Nepal . Source : <URL>
According to the <URL> and taking into note that you are a Filipino Citizen you will require a visa to enter South Korea . The fact that you are a <URL> of the United States will not change this fact .
If you wish to transit thru the Netherlands as an Iranian Citizen , you will generally need a transit visa . This is clearly stated on the <URL> website and is shown in this <URL> from the same as well . There are some exceptions <URL> to this rule even though the <URL> do not state them very clearly , one of these exceptions <URL> would be the Long Stay Type 'D ' visa that you hold for Ireland . The exception should be perfectly valid in your case and many sources verify this as well . Note , considering the case of using the two flights ( which I beleive would be on different reservations ) you can obviously do it , but if your luggage is not checked in thru and thru , you will have to collect and re-check in your luggage which would require you to pass thru border control and you will need a visa in order to do so ( a Proper Short Stay Schengen Visa ) . If you can have your luggage checked in thru , there should n't be much else to take care of beside the Ukraine side of things , the Netherlands should be alright .
First of all , I want to note that my city ( Saint-Petersburg ) can be a great place at any time , if you have a good company for it :) Also , see the <URL> ( in English ) . Climate Weather in Saint-Petersburg is in somewhat similar to <URL> , but with some differences . Here the air humidity always over 80 % , and this is quite uncomfortable during temperature peaks , either during winter or summer . Also you should be prepared to any weather during the day - sometimes we have a rain on one side of the street , and sun on the other side . So a backpack with umbrella and clothes will be useful even during the summer . According this , the average temperatures are quite useless for you in our city - at the end of this April we had +15 ° C during the day , and -1 ° C during the night - and you should always remember about such strange behavior . I think this two sites can help you during your journey : <URL> - popular site with weather forecasts , but sometimes not very accurate . <URL> - much more scientific and accurate forecasts , but only for a week ahead . As for me , Saint-Petersburg has four general seasons : From the middle of January till the middle of April . The hardest time for anybody - snowy and rainy cold weather with long dark nights and short days . Even during spring snow and cold weather are still here . Cultural events are rare and not very popular among the tourists . Many people have their vacations outside the city and ( in general ) outside the country . From the middle of April till the middle of the July . The opposite side of the seasons - the greatest time during the year . Warm weather comes rapidly , the city became beautiful and much more friendly . Famous <URL> come to the city step by step , city birthday is celebrated , and many tourists are in the city . But be aware of poplar fluff - it can be annoying . From the middle of July till the middle of October . Personally my favorite time . Summer heat is going down , nights are still short and comfortable , tourists crowds are dissapearing from day to day . After fall came , parks and gardens are very beautiful . This time of year called <URL> in English , but in Ruassian it has other name : " Bab ` ye Leto " ( Woman 's summer ) , and the city is very romantic during this time of the year : From the middle of October till the middle of January . This time also is not for tourism in general . Some days are still warm and sunny , but from November 's start the only time you should visit St. Petersburg is a Christmas ( either Catolic or Orthodox Christianity ) and New Year . The city is very beautiful this time , and there are a lot of small and big fests you can visit : Amount of tourists I 'll use the same periods , so here we go : The late winter and early spring is not quite popular among the tourists , and I can understand them :) From the middle of April , as the weather is going be better , the tourist crowds are more and more huge , and in June we have a peek of them . For example , right now the weather is warm , no rain , no wind , temperature is near +23 ° C - most comfortable for anyone here . So this time city is quite popular among the tourists . From the middle of July the White Nights are fade away , tourist crowds are smaller and smaller , but the city are still beautiful , weather still good , with rare rains . Good time for a walk , sightseeing and so on . Visit Saint-Petersburg in late autumn and winter is very risky trip . I recommend you only the Christmas and New Year time - its beautiful here , and the temperature is n't very hard for you . Festivals / Cultural events Generally , you can find a cultural event at any day of year here . Some cinema fests , music tours , picture showings , book presentations , and so on , and so on . For example , this year : <URL> <URL> ( in Russian or German ) <URL> ( In Russian ) <URL> <URL> <URL> ( <URL> ) This is only I found in a 5 minutes . Make a local contacts , get information , and welcome to Saint-Petersburg .
According to the <URL> : No . There is no requirement to hold a visa while in transit at Doha International Airport . This applies to citizens of all countries .
According to <URL> , If you are a citizen of a country that participates in the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) , and you enter the U.S. by land from Mexico or Canada , you are only required to complete the paper I-94W form at the land border crossing . ESTA is currently required for air and cruise ship travel only . Note : VWP citizens do not need an ESTA to travel on the ferries between Vancouver and Victoria , BC and Washington state . They are treated as a land border port .
You need a bit more information . Are you going with a tour or solo ? I went solo and I do n't really know any Russian aside form what I picked up while there . I stayed on the Europe side of the Urals , and bounced between hostels . It is definitely more difficult to go solo , but with some pedimiming and patience , it is easy enough . Contrary to a lot of stereotypes Russians are generally nice , helpful people . I ca n't tell you how many pairs of nit socks I bought from the babushkas on the streets . If you smile and point , you should be fine . It really depends on how experienced you are at traveling . I do , of course , always recommend studying up on the culture and language A BIT before you go . Know some words and carry a dictionary . The ' Where is ... ( bathroom/police/embassy ) ' and ' I want ... ( food/water/beer ) ' set of words is pretty much required where ever you go .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
Spain is a Schengen treaty country , so you will need a Schengen visa : Holders of a Vietnamese passport require a visa for the " Schengen States " . <URL> The cost for all temporary visas is 60 EUR , and you also need insurance and a lot of documentation . If your summer school regularly takes in foreign visitors , they should already know what visa you need and how to apply for it , so talk to them first .
Unless you have some very specific document like a limited territorial validity Schengen visa , a récépissé for an asylum application or a temporary visa delivered to let you leave the country after receiving an obligation de quitter le territoire français , chances are you have the right to transit in another Schengen country with your French visa ( it 's the case for most long-stay visas -- work , student , family ... -- for example ) . But in any case Basel EuroAirport is entirely on French territory so you should not worry . In practice , half of the terminal building is designated as the " Swiss part " of the airport with a special road and parking area to reach it from Switzerland without having to complete customs formalities for France but it should not impact you , you can use the French/German/EU half to enter the airport , check in , etc. and proceed to the international transit area like you would in any other French airport . One thing you can not do however if you want to avoid setting foot on Swiss territory is take the train to Basel and the bus to the airport from there ( if memory serves , public transport connections are better from the Swiss side than from Mulhouse or Saint-Louis or wherever it is you can find a bus to the airport in France ) .
PEK-J268-GYD-J263 TXL has a layover of 1 hour 45 minutes in GYD . This is above minimum connection time and should be fine . However , Azerbaijan airlines ( J2 ) only has one flight per day from GYD to TXL so if you do miss it , they would most likely rebook on you on the next day and you would have to stay overnight . It is possible that they could also rebook you via another route and occasionally might rebook you to another airline , but I would doubt that . Airlines rarely wait for connecting passengers these days , but might if there are a considerable number arriving from a connecting flight . Your bag should be checked through to your destination and you should n't have to pick it up in Baku . Enter your citizenship and travel details in <URL> and it will tell you whether you need a visa . Timatic is the system the airlines use to determine whether you require a visa and thus wo n't carry you without it .
Staying Airside ? Do n't Need a Transit Visa <URL> : TWOV ( Transit Without Visa ) : Holders of confirmed onward tickets for a max . transit time of 24 hours . You 'll need a visa if you wish to leave the terminal building and effectively enter the country . Countries that are not eligible for a visa on arrival must secure a visa before flying to UAE . Leaving the Airport ? Get a 96-hour Transit Visa on Arrival If you are not normally eligible for a visa on arrival , <URL> , provided you meet the following conditions ( striked-out fees are my modification since online prices are somewhat unreliable ) : This is what the IATA Travel Information Manual ( TIM ) says ( April 2011 edition ) ( the best version of an " official source " that we can find ) . Note that it only applies to Dubai Airport , not other cities or emirates . All conditions must be satisfied ... in theory . If you end up in Dubai and do n't satisfy all conditions , it might be worth trying anyway , but assume you 'll fail and you wo n't be disappointed . A 96-hour ( " Dubai Stop-over " ) transit visa can be obtained on arrival at DXB provided : Traveling to a third country through Dubai International Airport ; Transit time is at least 8 hours ; Holding return/onward ticket and a hotel reservation ; Traveling at least one sector ( inbound or outbound ) on Emirates ( EK ) . Fee : USD 127 . Facility is not applicable to passengers arriving on SQ-flights . No visa will be issued on arrival to female passengers under 30 years of age , being nationals of CIS countries . Not applicable to nationals of Afghanistan , Iraq , Niger , Somalia and Yemen . <URL> : Visa Issuance : A 96-hour transit visa can be obtained on arrival at Dubai ( DXB ) , provided : [ ... ] holding a passport valid for at least 6 months from date of arrival . Visas are only issued as a part of a transit package together with hotel accommodation and airport transfer ( paid by passenger ) .
Assuming you are flying through on the same airline or partner airlines and your bags are checked through , then no visa needed . ( CZ-CZ or CZ-KE ) If by chance you are changing carriers / alliances , you need to ask the airline originating in New York if they can check your bags through to the connecting airline . If the bags can not be checked through you will need a transit permit go claim your bags and then check them in for your next flight .
As a EU citizen , you are entitled to visa free entry throughout the EU . You need proof that you are an EU citizen , and the easiest way to provide this is with your passport . Furthermore , as a UK citizen , you enjoy <URL> - not including those in the EU . It is safe to say , you enjoy a great deal of freedom of movement even outside the EU .
As a German citizen you can spend up to 90 days within a period of 180 days in <URL> , without visa . A passport or ID card ( Personalausweis ) is enough . For <URL> , you need a passport without stamp from Israel , and a visa .
end question
start question
How can I find which European countries require headlights on during daytime ?
Required under certain conditions : Outside populated areas : Italy , Hungary and Romania Indicated roads only : Portugal Motorcycles only : Belgium , France , Spain Recommended : Germany , Spain , France Required at all times : Bulgaria , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , Iceland , Latvia , Lithuania , Macedonia , Montenegro , Norway , Poland , Russia , Serbia , Slovakia , Slovenia , Sweden , Switzerland ( <URL> ) Note that all vehicles sold in EU since 2011 are required to have DRLs installed as per European Union Directive 2008/89/EC . Sources : <URL> <URL> <URL>
No there is not . All countries in South-East Asia require licenses to drive a motorcycle , and even more so to rent one . That even goes for more remote locations like Laos , Cambodia and Myanmar . I want to add that there are countries like India where driving yourself is a REALLY bad idea . If you are in the countryside and have an accident where you injure someone or damage something valuable ( a holy cow for example ) , there is a risk that a mob from a local village attempts to kill you . Literally . Expats in India are generally not allowed and are forced to have a driver . So please check for each country if it 's smart do drive by yourself .
There are a couple ( literally : I saw 2 ) publicly accessible sockets in the primary B terminal , which is nice and modern but very crowded ; both of the sockets I saw were in use , which is n't surprising because there were probably a couple hundred people in the terminal . However , but there are many more sockets in the A terminal , which is older , dirty , and only has four gates , but was almost completely empty ( I had my choice of 10 or so sockets close to seating ) .
It is , in my opinion , quite safe to travel by train in all parts of Europe . Depending on the country ( and the route ) , you always have an option of locking your stuff to the shelves above your seat ( or berth ) . I never had any trouble traveling by train in Europe . The only thing that I encountered in my travels was not a problem for me but it might be for others and that is that there are often young drunk people getting on the train so if you want some peace and quiet , they would probably disturb you . If not , join them , they 're almost always friendly and ready to accept travel/drinking buddies . ( This is usually in cabins , not in sleeper class . Also , it almost exclusively occurs on weekends , Thursday to Sunday . ) Your assumption that train travel outside Western/Northern Europe is unsafe is completely wrong . Train travel in Balkan countries ( I 'm from Croatia and travel almost exclusively by train in my country ) is very popular and a lot of people enjoy it . People you meet are almost always quite friendly and helpful and will look after your stuff in a cabin if you get to know them . Do n't want to be prejudicial but if you want a fellow traveler to look after your things , aim for older females , solo travelers or people you made a connection with by exchanging stories . Also , although no one will steal your stuff , you must n't forget your things on board a train even if you 're getting off at the last station since almost no one is taking those to the lost and found office ( and some stations do n't actually have any ) . That 's how I lost my fishing poles a few years back . Besides , that same train you arrived with can be scheduled to leave in a short while so you wo n't be able to check the train yourself . Hope this helped ...
When it boils down to it , provided all your travel plans go well , it may not be a problem . The 6 month limit is possibly a bit long these days , and indeed <URL> , but it 's there , and it 's there for when things go wrong . Every country is trying to get tourists ( well , maybe not Saudi Arabia ) , but to not break the law . You 're only allowed into a country with a valid , legal passport , and sometimes a valid visa . Now , if your passport is expired , suddenly you have an unlawful situation . Your own country effectively says your document is not a valid document . So now said foreign country has someone without a valid document . How do they get you home ? Unless you 're neighbours , and can just pop across the border , it 's now nearly impossible to leave the foreign country , as you 'd have to travel through another country which wo n't accept an illegal document . <URL> . Airlines , if they let you travel without a valid visa/passport , are made to bring you back at their own expense . So they wo n't want to take you either . Indeed for Australia , it 's not mandatory that you have the six months , but <URL> . So now that we have a reason to not allow people to have their passports expire while in the country , why six months ? If I 'm there for 2 days , and the expiry is 6 months later , why should they care ? Caution . First , a lot of the countries that have these limits , offer six month visas . Meaning you could stay right up to the day of departure . So that 's one reason . Now , every day that you get closer to departure risks you having an invalid passport if you overstay even a day . So for most countries , just having an arbitrary limit aims to prevent this issue . If you 're suddenly in a car accident and ca n't fly out , or , heck , even if your flight is delayed a couple of days , it 's best for all involved that nobody 's passport expire as a result . Otherwise , legally you become an overstayer , and by law they 'd have to deport you , which could be tricky if you 're ill . Imagine the situation where you 're stricken with , say , swine flu , your passport has now expired , and you get deported . On top of this , you 're also considered an overstayer , which will be on your permanent record , and in some the case of some countries will almost certainly preclude you from returning . Not every country has this six month limit . Many just <URL> . NZ and a few other countries <URL> , although apparently <URL> after your visa ends . Each country deals with this in a different way , but the ' six month rule ' is common and simple for all involved to understand .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
There are already answers that explain border formalities , but I think the asker 's confusion here stems from not really having understood what a visa is and what it 's for , so let 's take that . Most fundamentally , a visa is something you apply for in advance . You go to the embassy/consulate of the country you want to visit , or you mail in all your documentation , and then they keep your passport for ( up to ) several weeks while their bureaucrats make a decision whether you should be allowed to go there , and eventually you get your passport back either with or without a colorful sticker ( or , in earlier times , an ink stamp ) that says you 're permitted to go to such-and-such country in such-and-such period . ( You pay a fee when you apply for a visa , which you wo n't even get back if they refuse , the point being that it should n't be the taxpayers of the destination country who pay for the bureaucracy that processes the applications ) . When you actually go there , there will be further questioning and stamping of your passport at the border when you you arrive , as the other answers explain -- how much depends on the country , but unless the country and yours are exceptionally chummy with each other , you would at least get a stamp in your passport saying that you passed through this-or-that border point on such-and-such day . You 'll need that stamp later if you need to document to police or other authorities ( such as the exit passport control when you leave ) how long you 've been there . The purpose of the apply-in-advance must originally have been something about keeping spies and criminals out -- and they 're still looking for that , but in practice the most important consideration is that if you come from a poor country and want to go with a rich one , the rich country wants to be really sure you 're not going to move there , taking jobs from the locals -- or , worse yet , loafing around on their welfare system 's expense . Unless you can prove beyond a reasonable doubt that that 's not your thing , you wo n't get a visa . Visa-free travel comes about when two ( usually rich ) countries come together and agree , " look , we 're both pretty good places to live , so the risk that one of your guys is going to find it attractive to be an illegal immigrant with us ( or vice versa ) is pretty small . All that visa bureaucracy makes trade and tourism between our countries more difficult , let 's just cut it out , okay ? " So the two countries agree that holders of each others ' passports do n't need to get visas before they travel -- but usually they will still be questioned and stamped at the border . In some countries , such as the UK , visa-free travelers will generally be met with more suspicion at the border because they have n't been pre-cleared ( but it 's still less hassle than applying for a visa for most travelers ) . In other places , such as the Schengen countries , all people from third nations in principle get the same screening at the border , and getting a visa is an additional hurdle to clear for citizens of less fortunate countries . Poor countries do n't generally have to fear a flood of economic migrants from rich countries , so when they require visas of travelers from the rich parts of the world , it is either a case of national paranoia or pride ( both of which happen in the developed world too ) , or because country A demands visas of country B 's citizens , and country B reasons that " if they make a hassle for our people , we 'll make a hassle for theirs too " . Then there 's something called visa-on-arrival . In this case one does n't have to apply in advance , but can just arrive at the border to be questioned and stamped , like in the visa-free case . But you have to fork over money for a " visa fee " before you 're let in -- effectively just a tax on arriving travelers from certain countries . Typically this happens when country B above wants to have their cake and eat it too . They 're not really interested in pre-screening country A 's citizens , but they do want them to suffer in proportion to how their own citizens suffer when going to A , so they require a visa fee in the same ballpark as that charged by A 's consulate . Or , of course , it may simply be a tax , levied because they can .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
Having some passport not recognized by some country is not that unusual . It 's pretty much certain to happen somewhere for passports of countries with partial recognition . Someone else mentioned passports of Northern Cyprus ( which is only recognized by Turkey ) , which <URL> , is only accepted in 6 countries . But there are many other countries in the same boat . The Republic of China passport : The Republic of China is recognized by 21 UN members plus the Holy See . But its passport is accepted in almost all countries . However , there are some peculiarities . <URL> , a few countries ( Argentina , Kenya , Laos , Nepal , Serbia ) will issue the visa on a separate sheet , not on the passport itself , presumably due to not recognizing the passport . Brazil apparently will require the person apply for a Brazilian laissez-passer as the document to put the visa on . China ( People 's Republic of ) will issue some kind of permit instead . The page for <URL> does not explicitly mention any country where it is not accepted . But common sense would dictate that it is not recognized by Serbia . The Nagorno-Karabakh passport is not recognized anywhere , <URL> ( though it 's unclear if that means it can not be used anywhere ) . For <URL> it says " not valid for travel to most countries " ( not really sure what that means ) . The pages for <URL> and <URL> do not explicitly mention any country where they are not accepted . But again , they would be at least not recognized by the countries that their territory is claimed by ( Azerbaijan for Nagorno-Karabakh , Moldova for Transnistria , Georgia for Abkhazia and South Ossetia ) . The page for <URL> also does not mention where it is not recognized ; but for that case it is conceivable that it could be recognized everywhere . For <URL> , it says it is accepted in 8 countries as unofficial travel documents , which probably means it is not accepted mostly everywhere else . South Koreans visiting North Korea will be issued a visa <URL> .
<URL> operates a car ferry between Hirtshals ( Denmark ) and Seyðisfjörður ( Iceland ) , via Tórshavn ( Faroe Islands ) , generally making one trip per week .
Well these search engines provide you the flight itineraries ( and if you have tried <URL> chances are you found the best connections already ) . However as you mention a combination of direct flights + ground travel might be advantageous . A good site to check your options is <URL> . Here are <URL> . That gives you a cost and time estimate for alternative options , but note that results are not date specific , i.e. for each of those you will have to manually search the connection for your travel dates . In this case one alternative to connecting flights to Baltimore is flying into Washington Dulles airport and taking a train . The time saved compared to the shortest connecting flights is in the minutes so I guess your advantage would be in terms of price , if so . Note also that you would be purchasing two different tickets ( flight + train ) so your connection might not be guaranteed ( and you have to haul luggage ) , while with connecting flights on a single ticket in the case of delay the airline is responsible for ultimately getting you to Baltimore .
Tallinn : Although I do n't attend many concerts most of the tickets are usually being sold on <URL> .
TL ; DR There 's no easy way to find out this information for JR East shinkansen lines . Information for the Kyushu/Sanyo/Tokaido shinkansen lines is easier to find though . I remember seeing trainset types listed in printed timetables for sale in bookstores ( and sometimes in the station ) in Japan . Here 's an example schedule , <URL> , on Amazon Japan . You can see the row in the image below that has 500 , 700 , N700 , etc. showing the trainset type . <URL> However , upon further research , it looks like the train type is primarily only shown for the Tokaido and Sanyo shinkansen lines . You can find some schedules with trainset types online on <URL> . For the shinkansen lines operated by JR East , it looks like things are n't so straight-forward . You can kind of tell by train type what it is , but there 's unfortunately still some ambiguity . It <URL> with the schedule books you might be able to look towards the back where they have drawings of the trainsets to figure out what service uses what kind train , depending on the number of cars , etc. . For example , if you know it 's a Yamabiko + Tsubasa that 's a total of 17 cars , it must be E2 + E3 , if it 's 16 cars , it must E5 + E3 . Definitely not easy though . JR East 's <URL> ( in Japanese ) shows which trains are combined and which trains they consist of ( e.g. Yamabiko + Tsubasa ) . I did , however , found this <URL> ( in Japanese ) that lists some trainset types , but it does it line-by-line , so from Tokyo to Omiya you end up having to check multiple shinkansen line schedules . It 's also hard to tell which ones are couples together ( since they 're usually on different lines ) .
An expired residence permit certainly does not allow you to stay or travel in the Schengen area by itself . There are n't any systematic border checks so you would not generally meet any border guard at the border between Norway and Sweden or at the airport when flying back to Sweden . You might therefore easily get away with intra-Schengen travel without proper documentation . But it does not mean it would be legal or that you can not be asked about your status by the police in one country or the other ( even without traveling , incidentally ) . Furthermore , some airlines wo n't let you board without an appropriate visa ( Ryanair is one airline that is notorious for that , see previous questions like <URL> ) and many will at least check your ID so you would expose yourself to some scrutiny in any case . EDIT : Your citizenship makes your situation much easier . You can legally travel , leave and enter the Schengen area as a visitor for up to 90 days and this short-stay does <URL> . Legally speaking , you could also stay in Sweden on that basis alone ( people who can not stay in the Schengen area without a visa might have other ways to get a temporary permit but as far as I know you do n't need one and the advice you received about staying in Sweden would only become relevant if the process took more than three months ) . Do take the expired work permit with you to document the fact that you have n't been overstaying ( your last entry stamp is presumably much older than 90 days ) , show your passport if you are asked for ID ( I would not volunteer a confusing expired document unless it 's needed ) and you should be fine . If you left the Schengen area , I guess you could theoretically be refused entry when coming back but travel within the area should not be a problem at all , even if there is in fact a border check somewhere .
According to <URL> ( screenshots of the signup page available ) , the prices are : For Laptops 20MB for $ 10 USD 50MB for $ 18 USD Full Flight for $ 22 For Mobile 12MB for $ 5 USD 5MB for $ 2 USD 3 Hours for $ 10 USD It is worth mentioning that the blog owner had a bad experience using the onboard wifi as most of the requests were timed out and pages were not loading . I personally had better experiences in other airlines using this service . So , I guess it totally depends on the strength of the Inmarsat satellite 's signal .
As a rule of thumb , the worse the visa regime , the worse the country 's regime . It 's the tinpot dictatorships of the world ( Turkmenistan , North Korea , Saudi Arabia , Angola , etc ) that make it <URL> and watch visitors most closely , not because they 're particularly concerned about Norwegians stealing their jobs , but because they 're afraid that they 're actually { journalists , dangerous infidels , disguised CIA spies , etc } out to { steal their military secrets , report on human rights issues , lead the faithful astray , steal their women , etc } . Or , in the case of the United States , suffering from bed-wetting hysteria about foreign terrorists . China is somewhere in the middle of the spectrum : not particularly bad as far as visas or regimes are concerned , but still pretty paranoid about foreigners snooping about where they should n't ( eg . Tibet without a tour guide ) and with a strong preference for more state control rather than less . Inertia is also a factor : no bureaucrat ever got fired for imposing more restrictions , whereas letting a bad apple in may be a career-limiting move .
I found an official site for the <URL> , and according to it , there is really a <URL> , which will be at your station at 13:06 local time . There is no other trains to the Bucharest , <URL> ( and <URL> ) , so I think this train will be :) According this site , the price will be <URL> . All I can find about the romanian buses is <URL> with the list of sites . Most informative was <URL> , but I ca n't find any bus from Murfatlar there , only from Constanța station ( near ) , so I think the train will be cheaper .
If you ca n't find out anything on-line , just take some time when you get to Tokyo . Find the addresses of some schools and actually go there and hang around outside , then ask some of the students for their opinions as they come out for a break . I did this when I learned Spanish in Antigua ( Guatemala ) which is full of Spanish schools .
There are a lot of options . It really depends on your preference , but my list of cities you can always visit no matter what season : Amsterdam ( the Netherlands ) Maastricht ( the Netherlands ) Delft ( the Netherlands ) Brugge ( Bruges ) ( Belgium ) Monschau ( Germany ) Edinburgh ( UK ) Grenada ( Spain ) Barcelona ( Spain ) Funchal ( Portugal )
Go to the airport anyway . Most likely you will end up with a seat . If not , the airline will take care of you and get you to your destination on another flight . Some possible explanations : The flight is overbooked . If someone else fails to show up for the flight , you 'll have a seat . If not , they will offer incentives ( vouchers for future travel ) for someone to give up their seat and take a later flight . If nobody does , they will bump someone at random ( not necessarily you ) , give them compensation , and put them on a later flight . There are seats still available , but they want to save them for special customers ( elite-level frequent flyers , etc ) . Perhaps they are " premium " seats with extra legroom , exit rows , etc. . Right now these special customers have seats elsewhere on the plane . Sometime before departure , the airline will upgrade their elite customers into these premium seats , leaving their original seats for you . So you most likely will get a seat , though you may not have much choice as to which seat . If you buy your ticket further in advance , when more seats are available , you will have a better chance of being able to confirm your seat assignment .
end question
start question
Is it true that Uzbek visas are regularly checked in the Tashkent Metro ?
Local police regularly checks bags at the metro entry , but very rarely they will check visa . If in such case you do not have a passport with you , no one will ask for bribe as @JonathanReez wrote , that 's sounds very funny actually :) ) they will verify your status and that is it , might call the hotel or take you to the hotel . I lived in Tashkent for almost half of a year , used metro and never was asked for my visa , though I know people who very occasionally stopped and asked for documents , they had their documents with them ( usually everyone carries their passport if travelling in foreign country ) , so they were fine . Just keep you passport with you no matter which foreign country you visit :)
Dont know about Dubai , but Qatar ID Number is of 11 digits . First digit will be 2 , if you are born in 20th Century i.e. on or before 2000 . 3 if you are born after . 2nd &amp; 3rd digit is your birth year in yy format . 4th , 5th , 6th digit is your nationality code , same for same country . Last five is your sequence number of entering country first time , with somebody entering at 01 Jan 00:01 will be 00001 . So , no , two work visa numbers for two different persons will not be same . Although same person re-entering Qatar after getting first visa cancelled will get same number as earlier . Note that this applies to Qatar ID Numbers . The temporary visa you need to enter and get the RP process completed may be totally different .
There is no need to book anything in advance here . Go to the station , buy a ticket and take the train . After checking at <URL> , it seems that the trains from Interlaken to Grindelwald and Lauterbrunnen are not included in the pass . There is no cable car to the Jungfraujoch . You have to take a train from Grindelwald or Wengen to the <URL> station . From there you proceed by a second train to the so-called top of Europe . Both these trains are <URL> . Maybe the author of the " Rough Guide " was a bit imprecise on that ... Note that the Jungfrau railway is not included either in your Interrail pass .
Well ... this is difficult to answer , because how many is ' common ' ? However , I 've stayed in hostels in Australia , New Zealand , all over Europe , Central and northern Asia , USA/Canada and South America , and I ca n't recall a time that I 've seen them charge EXTRA for female dorms - EXCEPT when there were fewer beds . Now , it 's fairly common to charge more for smaller dorms - fewer snorers , people to steal your stuff or whatever . It 's more common to sometimes put an excess on some rooms to make them ' special ' and include breakfast with just those rooms . I 've also seen it where single guys were n't allowed to stay in the mixed dorm room - only couples , which I 'd say was bordering on discrimination . This was in Philadelphia , US . But it was the same price as the all-male dorm room . I think , as @hippietrail commented , in most western countries this practise would be considered gender discrimination - charging people extra based on their gender , although I think a good lawyer could argue it 's charging for security . However , for whatever the reason , I can confirm that no , it 's not common at all , and if I saw a woman being charged extra for this , I 'd certainly be arguing discrimination . However , I 've not stayed in many hostels in SE Asia , Africa or the Middle East ( although I 've been to a few countries in these areas , for whatever reason I stayed in guesthouses or hotels ) , and perhaps in those cultures it may be different .
Actually if you google <URL> you will come up with a few options including : <URL> in Ashburn , VA <URL> in Chantilly , VA <URL> in Rockville , MD and the list goes on . The way that rentals work in most places that I 've looked at is that you rent a gun but you have to buy the ammo at the range . Most only require that you have a current valid government issued ID but not the restriction on that it has to be a state or federal government of the United States .
No , the ETA subclass 601 is not the right visa for this purpose . To quote the <URL> Business visitor activities include : making general business or employment enquiries investigating , negotiating , signing or reviewing a business contract activities carried out as part of an official government-to-government visit participating in conferences , trade fairs or seminars , as long as you are not being paid by the organisers for your participation . Business activities do not include short-term work . If you want to work in Australia , you can apply for a Temporary Work ( Short Stay Activity ) visa ( Subclass 400 ) . ( Emphasis mine ) Now some anecdotal evidence ( see the answer by @pkaeding ) suggests you can get away with this visa anyway . Enforcement of these things often varies by nation enforcing , and the ethnicity and class of the visitor ( white people in expensive suits more likley to be waved through ) . However I know that in the UK trying to do this could cause you a lot of trouble , and that in the US sometimes you might get waved through with the answer " business " , sometimes you might get asked more questions at the border , and then turned around . <URL> The Temporary Work ( Short Stay Activity ) visa ( subclass 400 ) is a temporary visa that lets you enter Australia to : do short-term , highly specialised , non-ongoing work participate in an event or events on a non-ongoing basis at the invitation of an Australian organisation . in limited circumstances , participate in an activity or work relating to Australia 's interests . Generally you can stay in Australia for up to three months where required , but depending on your work or activity a longer period of up to six months may be allowed in limited circumstances . Which sounds like exactly what you want . The wording of the site implies its not too difficult to get , but who knows .
What criteria would you use to label people xenophobic ? And would these criteria really reflect your own experience visiting these places ? In <URL> , the criterion is the answer " strongly/somewhat disagree " to the statement " The presence of foreigners is good for the city " in the EU survey " Perception survey on quality of life in European cities " . While the question does fit with the definition of xenophobia , it does n't really reflect the experience of visiting these cities as a tourist , assuming the sample size is sufficient for a meaningful analysis ( which is most unlikely ) People tend to be a big part of the reactions they get . Some people can travel just about anywhere and enjoy a great welcome while others go to the same places and are endlessly disappointed , scammed ... Any broad generalization on the matter is more likely to cause problems than it is to help travelers . You would be better served by making a list of countries you are interested in and doing some more detailed research on those . Check out what scams are frequent . Check out if people complain of double pricing . Check out if formal segregation between locals and foreigners . Read accounts of foreigners who travel cross country by bike/motorbike as they will usually give you a good idea of how they were perceived by people they met . etc. . It will give you a far better picture of the situation than some superficial xenophobia index .
I have checked in many a cabin sized piece of luggage and never noticed them being handled any different from bigger sized items . At times I have chatted with the check-in staff when checking in a small case , they always reacted in a way that suggested that it is often done . They do understand the need when you are having two pieces when only one is allowed for carry-on or when you mention carrying items not allowed in the cabin . Looking out of the plane to the luggage carts on the tarmac you see all sizes of luggage mixed and when they put in the belly of the plane one by one , they are thrown no more gently nor more wildly than the bigger pieces of luggage . On reclaiming luggage , the smaller items are , again , mixed with the bigger pieces and come the normal way . So make sure your cabin allowed trolley is sturdy enough to handle normal luggage handling . In all cases of luggage damage , get to the location within the luggage reclaim area where you are going to be helped when luggage is missing . Often the same location as where you collect out-sized luggage , but it can also be a different office off the main hall or a glass walled one in the hall . Get forms filled out and photos taken ( if only by yourself if they do not do it as well ) and do not leave till you have been seen by staff . Claiming online or by mail after you come home is not as likely to be successfull , as they can easily claim you have damaged the case since or have substituded a damaged case for the one you used . But I have always taken sending in luggage as taking a risk . If it breaks in a predictable way , I replace it . I might take action if a new strong trolley is broken or ripped open , but a small dent or even a broken off wheel on a used one , bad luck . In some airports you can get your luggage plastic wrapped . In some you can get sturdy plastic bags that encase your whole luggage ( mostly for backpacks but if you see them supplied you can ask . ) And you can of course buy a bigger case or bag and put it outside your cabin sized trolley .
Since nobody has found a shorter distance , it seems that Namibia and Zimbabwe are the closest pair .
This is definitely possible . I grew up in the Alps and I can think of at least a dozen places like that . The problem is that most of them are privately owned and it might not be so easy to get access to one . There is a <URL> about renting such huts in Switzerland , but unfortunately the listings are only in German . Note that even if some of the house is not totally isolated you can be quite sure to be alone if you go there in low season during the week as those are nowadays mostly used as holiday homes . You should be looking into something which is accessible only by walking to increase your chances of being let alone . Note that most of those places will have running water ( water being abundant in the Alps ) , maybe electricity via a solar panel but most likely no Internet .
The purpose of a transit visa is ... to transit through a country on the way to another destination . In some cases , a transit visa is simply a regular visa with a different name based on the purpose of the journey . When there is a distinction between a transit visa and a regular visitor 's visa , there might be several differences : Nationals of some countries might face extra scrutiny/restrictions ( e.g. in the Schengen area most people can transit through an airport without a visa but some do need one even in this case ) . The transit visa is a way to implement such a policy . Holders of transit visas might be unable to leave the airport and actually enter the country . The transit visa is a way to enforce this restriction ( e.g. " airport transit visa " in the Schengen area ) . A transit visa might be cheaper than a regular visitor 's visa ( e.g. " Direct airside transit visa " in the UK , transit visas are even completely free of charge in Canada ) , possibly to make transiting through the country more attractive and increase the local airports/airlines ' turnover or in acknowledgment of the fact that such a visa is generally less useful . In theory , I guess that someone landing without a transit visa where required could be refused entry and forced to return to their point of origin , be detained until they get their connecting flight or , if none of this is possible for one reason or another , face deportation . However , the rules are designed to make sure that it does n't happen in the first place . Airlines are bound by international agreements to take back people who are refused entry and might face additional fines when it happens , depending on local law . This provides them with strong incentives to check if passengers fulfill any relevant visa obligation before boarding . Note that in many cases , someone making it to a state 's territory has the right to apply for asylum , even if they got there illegally or do n't have a visa to enter the country . They could be detained and ultimately deported if their application is unsuccessful but ( in principle ) not immediately returned to their point of origin . Requiring transit visas for citizens of high-risk countries is one way potential destination countries make sure asylum seekers do n't even get that far and limit the number of requests .
One reason is that not every country has computerised their passport/visa system . They 're coming along , but still . In addition , not every country 's system is linked together . So even if you scanned it in at one border , you ca n't tell that 's happened at the next . Crossing into Zambia in 2005 , they opened their book to the date , drew in a line for New Zealanders , and literally crossed off 5 lines ( | | | | with a -- through the four vertical lines ) . It costs a LOT of money . Some countries ca n't afford the investment to get all those systems built , and staff trained to use them . It 's cheaper to hire some chap who can ask questions and cross off lines in a book . So given all the different computer and paper based systems , the only way to transmit the fact that you have a visa , is to carry a piece of paper - ie , a stamp/visa . However , it 's improving . With the arrival of those smart passports with chips in them , we now have a common way of having data stored electronically and ( mostly ) securely . Next that needs to turn into visas . New Zealanders arriving home ( or visiting Australia ) can merely walk to a barrier , scan our chipped passports , get a photo taken and walk through . British citizens arriving home can have their iris scanned , no stamp required . So these are slowly changing , but will take time . In the meanwhile , you get to collect cool stamps ! :)
That 's a bit risky , since the roll is only held there by pressure . A couple of good whacks to the side , exactly like the ones the bag will receive on the conveyor belts and in the loving arms of the baggage loaders , and it can be knocked out . There 's a simple trick for considerably increasing the odds of a rucksack and its attachments making it through in one piece : just pop the whole thing in a giant garbage bag , preferably a reasonably heavy-duty one . This also prevents straps , zippers etc from getting caught , and as a bonus makes theft from your bags harder as well . Some backpackers improvise by using the pack 's integrated rain cover , but this usually only covers half the bag , may get pulled off by accident , and is usually no good for securing attachments .
Yes , a single visa either B1 or B2 can be issued , but often they are combined . According to the official <URL> : Often , the B-1 and B-2 visas are combined and issued as one visa : the B-1 / B-2 . Now , the proof that single B1 or B2 visas are issued in some cases is the official statistics found on <URL> : As the table shows , they are issued separately but in small numbers . Why they are issued separately in some cases I have no idea and I could not find any information related to this in any official or non-official references . My guess is this totally depends on the interviewer at the consulate/embassy .
Tickets get checked once in a while , usually by people with nondescript clothes waiting for passengers exiting the platforms or getting into the carriage and revealing themselves as ticket inspectors once the doors close and the train is on the move . Happened to me once or twice when working in Berlin and commuting by public transport for 6 + months a few years ago so I can vouch that it does happen but it does not seem that common either . It 's true that it 's a strategy ( random check and deterrence ) closer to what you typically find in middle-sized towns with only a bus network than to what you see in large cities like London or Paris . But then again , Berlin is no London . Also , all students in Berlin get a " Semesterticket " allowing unlimited travel on the Berlin transit network . It 's not free but included in their registration fee , which is a rather heavy-handed but very effective approach : A major group of potential fare evaders simply have no choice but to pay for a rail card , whether they want it or not , thus obviating the need to spend resources on enforcement , at least for that demographic . The machines you described are date/time validators for " open " tickets . You ' punch ' or ' validate ' the ticket ( it 's called entwerten in German ) when you first use it and it remains valid for two hours/one day/a few days after the date/time printed by the machine . Using this mechanism , you can therefore purchase several day tickets at once , and use them one-by-one whenever you want . If you look at a validated ticket , you will also notice the name of the station , which is especially useful for Kurzstrecken-tickets , which are valid for up to three stations on the U-Bahn or S-Bahn or to verify you have n't done a round-trip ( which is not allowed on a single-trip ticket ) . Do beware , day tickets need to be validated . Since you do n't have to use them on the day you bought them , they are n't valid if you do n't ' punch ' them with the machine when you do want to use them . If you are tourist and buy them from a counter , maybe the clerk would warn you about it but IIRC ticket machines always give you an " open ticket " ( except the machines placed in trams ) . The penalty if you are found without a valid ticket is a $ 40 fine ( soon to be increased to $ 60 ) .
I just checked airbnb.com and found accommodation for under 40 euros in August . It seems , indeed , that there are either very few or no hostels in Cannes , if a hostel is an accommodation with dorms . I suppose flashy Cannes does not have much of an interest in the lower end of the tourism industry . Nearby Nice does have hostels , or rather , accommodations with dorms , but these are not too cheap , starting at roughly 30 euros per night per bed .
I would n't worry about it . Other than wikileaks activists , I 've never heard of anyone having the data on their electronic devices searched when entering/departing the U.S. or Europe . If it 's going to cause you anxiety and make you act strange , however , it would be better to delete the files just to give you peace of mind . This is not because there is any chance that the files would get you into trouble , but because acting strange could cause trouble .
It 's very easy , and a quick google search for ' antipode ' and ' map ' will find sites that find it for you . For example , <URL> either detects your location , or you can enter one , and it 'll show you on a zoomable map where your antipodal destination is . Unfortunately as shown by <URL> , only about <URL> , and only a tiny fraction of Brazil is antipodal to Japan ( in fact , to the islands of Okinawa and Amami ) . A rather larger amount of Brazil ( but still a small fraction of the country as a whole ) is antipodal to the Philippines and Indonesia , along with Brunei , parts of Malaysia and the South Korean island of Jeju . Without knowing your exact location I ca n't be sure where it ends up . I 'll leave that last step up to you ! Another <URL> site shows it quite nicely side by side . I can click and zoom in on New Zealand and the other window zooms in at the same time to show me northern Spain - the antipode .
The airlines all make it clear that they do not guarantee space on board for all items that are eligible carry-on luggage , as pointed out in another answer . I would presume that you can not claim a higher loss allowance for a bag just because it is forced to be checked during boarding . I would n't rely on an agent 's word at the gate , either . The best way to protect yourself is to plan to remove the valuable items and carry them on ( often times there is enough space for individual items even if there is not enough space for a standard carry-on suitcase ) . There are certain types of smaller aircraft that do not accommodate standard carry-on suitcases . Check your itinerary to ensure you are n't flying on one of those planes . They include Canadair Regional Jets , many Embraer regional jets and all prop style planes like the Dash-8 or ATR . Larger bags on these planes are always checked at boarding and returned to you upon arrival at the gate . If you can not remove the items and carry them on safely , then you should be prepared to make the case with an airline agent to be moved to another flight . I do n't know how successful you will be , and you may have to wait out many full flights before it happens , but that may be your best best to avoid checking a larger but valuable item . Edit : I will mention something from a helpful comment by Tor-Einar Jarnbjo : you might be able to purchase a second seat to accommodate a very valuable item like a musical instrument . Contact your airline to discuss this option .
Yes , for every problem with the police , you can insist to do it at the station . But I would n't choose this as first option automatically . Normally trivial things like showing your ID might extend to several hours ( with a bit of bad luck ) . Getting a car to get you to the next station , waiting there if something is more important , doing the full course of bureaucracy , ( maybe ) getting an additional questioning and a call to your hotel etc.etc . ( depending on the mood ) , paying a fee for the additional effort ( it 's not because they do n't like this behaviour , they have to collect it for certain things ) , and being released in front of the station again instead where they met you first ... If you insist on the station , make sure they know that you have everything necessary but do n't trust them , instead of being here illegally . Easier would be to ask for their ID first . They are obliged ( too ) to show it on request , and to show it long enough that you can read it carefully ( even if you do n't understand German , look at it ) . I did n't find a good image , <URL> has to do . On the backside , there is more information like the name etc. . Scammers usually show you something not withstanding closer inspection , so they do n't want you to look carefully . Additionally , if they are uniformed but without weapon clearly visible on the belt , it 's a fake ( happens often enough to mention it ) . If they refuse to show their ID and/or to take you to a station ( real refusing , not just a " is this really necessary " - thing first ) , call 133 and get some more authentic ones . If they show some authentic looking ID but you still have major doubts for some reason , call too and tell them the number of the ID ( together with location and what they 're doing ) to check it .
end question
start question
Is tourism beneficial to the economies of places affected by natural disasters ?
Well , for example , in Christchurch , New Zealand , where we 've had several large earthquakes and nearly 10,000 aftershocks since September 2010 , the city has been altered irreparably . Many buildings have been torn down . We were expecting a windfall with the Rugby World Cup , but all the Christchurch games were cancelled , as were a lot of tourist visits as a result . While the CBD still has sections closed off , many of the tourist destinations in the region ( Lyttleton , Akaroa , the Antarctic Center , Hagley Park , the Museum , Art Gallery , Mt Hutt Ski Field , Kaikoura and more ) are still open or have reopened , and would LOVE tourists to come back in droves ! As you point out , visiting the sites of devastation is not the goal , and indeed in the dire parts of Christchurch they ask people not to come and rubber-neck as the vibrations from cars make some damaged houses shudder , for example . However , even those people would be happy to hear tourists are coming back to the city and region - it 's a beautiful part of the world .
When I was in Beijing in 2012 Sunday was not really a big deal . Maybe some shops open a little later , but generally they 're all open . I would advice against buying gadgets in general markets like the <URL> as they 're either fake or faulty . If you absolutely need to buy electronic gadgets go to an electronics store . General markets are good for souvenirs , clothing , bags , etc. . . However , as you only have limited time there I would advice to go to see the city instead of buying gadgets which are the same all over the world . Here are some things in Beijing you could see in this short amount of time : <URL> ~ 1-2 hours <URL> ~ 0.5 hour <URL> ~ 3 hours <URL> ~ 2 hours <URL> ~ 3-4 hours <URL> ~ 4-5 hours These are just some options you could choose in Beijing . The visit times are a rough indication on how many time you will spend there . I think that in one day you can visit one or two places listed above . As you will arrive at 11:30 at Beijing Capital International Airport , you 'll probably be in the city around 13:30 . There 's a subway going from the airport to Dongzhimen from where you can easily take other subways into the city . Buy a subway card at the airport and load it with some money . Taxis are mostly slower in the city because of the traffic jams .
No , it does not need to match . I have a UK EHIC card ( bound to my insurance as a UK resident ) and have a passport of another EU state , that is totally fine and worked well so far . As you can see in the <URL> , you can apply for an EHIC card as a national of the UK , EEA and Switzerland . All what counts is your proof of residency . ( That concerned the first version of the question ) : However , in case the UK leaves the EU completely and without health insurance agreements between the EU and UK being in place , you need ( as a UK resident ) to take care of your insurance matters yourself ( for getting emergency treatments in EU countries ) .
Jeju is actually a very mainstream destination for Koreans , if not so well known to westerners . It is very developed for tourism and until recently when Korea started to become a wealthy country it was the de facto destination for honeymooners . You might think of it as Korea 's equivalent of Australia 's Gold Coast or USA 's Hawaii . For Korea it 's far south , but it 's not tropical . As per being a top local tourist destination there are many ways to get there . <URL> <URL> Departures from : Busan ( Korea 's second-biggest city , at the south of the mainland ) Two vessels . Trips every day except Sunday . 10 - 12 hours . Incheon ( Where Seoul 's International airport is , in the northwest of the mainland ) One vessel . Monday , Wednesday , and Friday only . 13 1/2 - 15 hours . Mokpo ( At the southwest corner of the mainland ) Three vesslels . Every day of the week . 3 - 5 1/2 hours ( depending on vessel ) . Wando ( At the southern tip of the Korean peninsula ) Three vessels . Every day of the week . 3 -3 1/2 hours . Yeosu ( About halfway between Wando and Busan on the south of the Korean peninsula ) One vessel . Every day of the week . 7 hours . ( The trip durations are compiled from several sources which do not completely agree so I 've included a range from the quickest I found to the slowest . ) <URL>
From what I have heard/read , people always seem to say that Fall , such as September and onwards , is the best time to cruise ( particularly for the Caribbean ) for the following reasons : School has started , so there are less family vacations and college kids looking for cruises . The worry of hurricanes puts some people off . Lack of vacations after Labor Day and before Thanksgiving . I do n't have any hard data to back that up though . Keep in mind some places , like cruises to Alaska , are only around during certain times of the year so there 's no ' time of year ' for them to be cheaper than others . And finally , the cheapest deals I can usually find are from last minute cruise deals , but you have to be ready to go within a week or two . Those are typically much cheaper because the cruise ship wants to fill up their vacant spots .
You can only pass through customs ( or immigration ) through designated ports of entry . This means that unless you have a special pass ( for example , ship crews have special passes ) , you need to go through the customs and immigration process . This is a burden on you as the traveler . It does not matter where you start the journey . Your status in the destination country/territory will depend on your current nationality . For example , if you are allowed to legally reside and visit a country without a visa , you will not be an illegal alien ( to prove this though , you 'll have to provide documentation - like a passport ) . However , there will still be issues with your departure as your arrival was not legal or documented . If questioned by police you will most likely be detained and deported for illegally entering the country . As for goods ( customs ) , it is more restrictive as each country has their own rules on what goods are allowed entry customs free , which goods need to be declared and which goods are forbidden . In either way the burden is on you to make sure your travel is legal and authorized even if you do n't need a visa to travel to the country ; or your port/manner of entry was not through the normal channels .
I believe that the oldest ones in service right now are on the <URL> , which is part of the South West Trains franchise . Not to be confused with the <URL> , the Island Line is a regular part of the UK rail network run as normal services . Because of the low ceiling of the Ryde Tunnel , the Island Line has a much smaller loading gauge than the rest of the UK mainline rail network , so has to use different trains . Today , those are <URL> , which are <URL> ! As explained in the <URL> The stock is around 75 years old , making it the oldest type in Great Britain to remain in regular service And they look like this , in their current ( returned to historic ) colour scheme :
We went to Disney this March ( beginning of the month ) and it was almost empty ( 5 minute lines for almost every attraction ) . This was before the school break . I followed this <URL> that gave me the dates to avoid ( see the site for reasons ) : February : Presidents Week Mid-March to Mid-April : Spring Break May : Memorial Day Weekend Mid-June through Mid-August November : Thanksgiving Weekend December : Christmas through New Year 's Day
Currently , no . There is no road connecting the two countries . Briefly and recently , a ferry ran between Panama and Colombia . However , it seems it is no longer available : <URL> is empty , <URL> is suspended . <URL> suggests the ferry did n't run for most of 2015 either .
It looks like there are quite a few places , but most of them only have websites in French . The magic search term is . For example , Diabolo Funboard ( who did the video I linked to ) have a rental location on Anse Vata Beach ( la plage de l'Anse Vata ) . <URL> which Mark mentioned are in a similar area , and appear to have some quite nice gear from Naish . So , it looks like there are several places there , with a range of kit from beginners to experienced !
This is a very difficult question to answer in general , because different airlines have different seating configurations , seat pitches , etc. . The best thing to do is to check out sites dedicated to airline seating plans , such as : <URL> ( by far one of the most popular ones ) <URL> <URL> All of these sites are built on a user-submitted database + aircraft seat plan data on what the best seats in an airplane are , according to aircraft type , passenger class , short/long haul sectors etc. . I see that you 've already checked SeatGuru ; beyond that , you may also want to check one of the others ones to see if SeatGuru 's missed out anything . Usually , they 're pretty standard . For economy class , unless you have extra legroom or reduced recline or proximity to galleys / toilets , there literally is n't much that distinguishes one seat from another . After that , it all boils down to personal choices . I usually like aisle seats for extra legroom . The back of an airplane will experience more G-force during ascents , so some people prefer seats towards the front of the aircraft . And so on . Everyone likes extra legroom , but as an economy class passenger even if you check-in online , chances are you wo n't get those seats on long haul flights because many airlines open up online check-in for those in higher frequent flyer tiers earlier . This gets easier to snag if you 're a solo traveller because it 's much more likely to find singleton seats later in the checkin process . When travelling with four people , on your flight the middle row will allow you all to sit together . If you want two window seats , then it 's going to be quite awkward if you plan to talk during the journey . My advice ? It 's a long haul flight . People around you wo n't like people chatting . Tune in to the in-flight entertainment system , read a book , or just zone out on any seat you get .
I would strongly suggest you to try <URL> Another very famous one ( which is part of a well known brand in Italy ) is <URL>
RATP trip planner <URL> at 10 o'clock , november 28th , 2013 . The route is : <URL> is about 1km south-east from Château de Versailles . To <URL> , <URL> :
A two-year tour of <URL> ( 962 places ) is now available , offered by a British luxury company . By the way , it costs about 1 million pounds . It claims to cover all the sites if they are safely accessible . <URL> lists some of the stops .
Ok then , some suggestions , as I 've been to Valencia a couple of times . West of Valencia is Requena , a fantastic little Spanish town . The night before La Tomatina is the festival of water and wine , but as you 're going in December , you can just enjoy the town itself . It used to be a Moorish fortress , and parts of the town date from the 13th century . All sorts of random little streets and twists and turns . Closer , but still west of Valencia again is Buñol , where La Tomatina occurs . Again , nice town to walk around and explore , cool squares to sit with a coffee and soak it up . I spent several hours walking around here trying to find anyone who would let us use a phone , after being pickpocketed at La Tomatina , so I know it well . At least if you go in December there wo n't be passed-out Aussies everywhere ;) 90km north of Valencia are some hot springs . I wanted to go , but found it really difficult to get information on them , and did n't have much time anyway . But they sounded incredible . Finally , and I know this is vague and really unlike me as normally place names are easy , but there 's a Unesco heritage site - a castle fort village place on a hill . It 's SPECTACULAR . But for the life of me I ca n't remember the name . It 's 2 hours by car from Valencia . My searching has revealed <URL> which seems to pretty much match it and looks amazing , but <URL> do n't jog any memories currently . Still , it looks incredible too :) Ok , after finding <URL> I 'm now a little more convinced that it may well be the right castle . Also , and I know you did n't request it , but in Valencia , go see the Holy Grail , and the new area of Valencia is spectacular and well worth a walk . You can also go down to the docks and see the America 's Cup Village with all the companies that compete - Team New Zealand , Oracle and the like .
Crossing into the West Bank itself is simply a matter of continuing on whatever road you were already on and passing a check point , ( though usually they are only checking anyone going the other way ) and it 's perfectly doable with an Israeli taxi , or any one else willing to take you there for that matter . Furthermore , it 's just as doable to procede from there into an Israeli settlement ; it 's just like driving into any other town . However , I would recommend finding out the best way to get there in advance from the person who lives there , as many roads can be much more safe than others . It is also perfectly possible to return to the fully recognized part of Israel , this time through an actual checkpoint , again in any Israeli vehicle . Whether you will have to pre - arrange depends on where you are ; your host will likely know local taxi options . However , for a journey to Tel Aviv it may be a good idea to pre-book regardless . In terms of general safety , both day and night it depends where exactly you are . But in all cases most likely people living there will say it 's safe enough for them to travel . At the same time there are other places that are probably statistically safer to be , so it really is up to your comfort level . This is another question that would be best for your host who is likely familiar with the exact roads you will be on . ( Also , obviously a taxi from Tel Aviv will cost quite a bit ) Getting to Palestinian towns from the west bank will be very different , as Israeli taxis will not go there , and there may be more security checks on the way in and/or out of the towns/cities . You will have to take an Israeli car into the west bank as above and then transfer somewhere to Palestinian transportation .
Most tourists are not even looked at for this kind of thing as they have no value to the drug cartels . As always , you just have to be mindful and be safe . For taking the bus , one thing to consider is have a few peso coins handing for the restroom along the way . Also , take some toilet paper with you . As far as smuggling , border control is pretty tight , and getting through with anything smuggled is going to be quite difficult . Most of that stuff happens out in the desert anyway . Enjoy the bus ride , Dallas to Monterrey sounds like a great trip to take .
The northern most road would be the <URL> which ends in <URL> and extends to <URL> . The northernmost road in Canada is <URL> , which ends a couple of degrees of latitude south of the Dalton in <URL> , so that would be the northernmost you can get on existing roads . It is also possible that you might be able to travel on <URL> which potentially could go even further north but you will have to check where they are and if you will be allowed to travel them alone but <URL>
<URL> . There are no ferry connections between Greenland and Iceland , Denmark or Canada . However , more and more cruise shipping companies are choosing to include Greenland on their itineraries , whereby it is possible to begin the voyage from Iceland or go onboard at , for example , Kangerlussuaq . Greenland being an island , I hope it is obvious that there are no roads linking it to a continent . While theoretically the sea freezes , the ice is not traversable by anyone other than a well-prepared team equipped for arctic exploration .
Island Trader will take you there , just contact the company , it 's about a fifth of the price of a flight . . however , it is a rough trip , at least 36 hours or more , the boat rocks around a lot so if you get sea sick I would not recommend ! The other problem is that the boat leaves every fortnight , so it 's not very frequent , usually on a Wednesday or Thursday and returns on Sunday or Monday depending on loading times . The vessel is also rather old so do n't expect a cruise liner 's luxury service , they wont make your bed for you and the bunks are rather old . Other than that it 's a good trip if you enjoy being at sea and want something different .
end question
start question
Can I get a visa on arrival for India ?
Starting in October 2014 , <URL> . India currently offers visa-on-arrival to tourists from only 11 countries , including Finland , Singapore and Japan . A quote from their Planning Minister on the matter : " We have decided to extend the visa-on-arrival facility to tourists from 180 nations . It will take five to six months for the respective departments to put the required infrastructure in place . We hope to implement this from the next tourist session beginning October , " The electronic visa-on-arrival will be available at 26 major airports in India and would be valid for 30 days from the date of the tourist 's arrival in India . Note , however , that this does not include all countries - for example , nationals from Pakistan , Sudan , Afghanistan , Iran , Iraq , Nigeria , Sri Lanka and Somalia still can not get visas on arrival .
Agreements tend to be reciprocal ( although I would not be surprised if some were n't ) but many countries also simply decide unilaterally to grant visa-free entry to citizens of other countries . You do n't need an agreement for that . For example , compare <URL> ( certainly a very open country , on paper ) and <URL> . While I do n't know any ranking for that , it seems Haiti could be both one of the most open countries and one of those whose citizens suffer from the most restrictions ( to the extent that Wikipedia 's info is correct , of course ) . The <URL> ( however , unlike Haiti , <URL> ) . <URL> and <URL> do not require a visa to visit , from anyone .
In the end , I decided with Irkutsk . My reasoning : There is a Mongolian embassy in Almaty , but it 's quite far out of town , and is a hassle to get to . Also , the Kazakh police concern me a bit , and being without a passport is stressful when they 're around . In Irkutsk , you can pay for 1-4 working days processing , and it 's in the center of town . It requires two forms to be filled out there and then and you also pay at the consulate , rather than at a bank or somewhere else that you would need to find . The staff all spoke English and it was remarkably simple to complete .
There are a few companies in South Africa and I think the USA that offer rides in old military jets to wealthy tourists . Same can be had in Russia and maybe some other former Soviet republics . South African prices for supersonic flights start at 11000 Euro . In central Europe , laws typically prohibit supersonic flight except over open water , and even there it 's severely restricted to a few narrow corridors reserved for active military aircraft ( not counting military emergencies like scrambled fighters to intercept unidentified aircraft of course ) . Those are your only options , as ( as you said ) there are no supersonic airliners left in service anywhere and other supersonic civilian aircraft have never existed ( there was a plan for a supersonic business jet several years ago from Sukhoi in cooperation with I think Boeing , but it never entered even prototype stage ) . <URL> <URL> ( looks to be be the same company )
According to <URL> and <URL> there is no visa on arrival for Thai citizens at any location including South Sinai airport ( which I am guessing refers to Sharm el-Sheikh ) . So even if the website you linked states otherwise you should consider <URL> as an authoritative source for the airline .
" If you checked your bag through , and did not pick it up in Amsterdam , then you did not go through customs with it already when you enter the UK . Only your hand luggage will have been cleared through customs if you leave the Airport in Amsterdam . Thus , it makes sense to use the " nothing to declare " lane in the UK , as you are in a situation where you could have something to declare . <URL> - Question 5 covers this case and makes it explicit that the customs check will be at the final destination in the EU , except that it does not talk about leaving the Airport or the transfer area . As far as the gates are concerned , there is nothing in the rules , and using the definition of " intra-EU flight " from the page , the green gates would actually be fine to use . Using them with a non-green luggage tag will probably raise suspicion , though .
To get a visa on arrival , you need to apply online for a pre-approval first . There are many agencies ( I used visa-vietnam . org several times ) , and they work fine , as long as you apply online several working days in advance . After a few days , they 'll send you a visa approval document which you need to bring to board the plane . Note that you can only use visa-on-arrival if arriving by air ( not if crossing the ground border from Cambodia/Laos/China ) . Vietnamese embassy officials in Bangkok are rude and corrupt . When I went there , they insisted on higher-than-posted visa fees . It also involves 2 trips to the embassy unless you opt for an expensive express service option .
It 's difficult to give a concrete , sourced answer to this without knowing which country we 're talking about . However , in most cases , I would n't worry about it if I was you , as long as your main intention is tourism . If you 're very keen on being careful , you could contact the embassy of whatever country you 're going to visit . But this has the very real danger of complicating the visa application process when the time comes . Maybe ask them after you 've returned ? ( <URL> ) The situation might change a little if you become known as someone selling photographs on the side ( For example , if you have a website , etc. ) This still seems very unlikely , though , but some countries will demand that all persons who are known to work in related professions visit on a journalist visa , regardless what they claim any given trip is for . For example , two years ago my mother , who works in publishing , wanted to visit India , purely as a tourist . The Indian Embassy demanded that , due to her profession , she did so on a journalist visa , regardless of her stated intentions for the trip . Now , since you probably are n't working in media , even this would n't apply to you . But if you got into the habit of selling photographs , had a website , or were otherwise known as someone making money from photography , it 's not impossible ( though still very unlikely ) that it could happen . Mostly though , if the main intention of your trip is tourism , most countries wo n't mind , let alone notice , if you happen to end up selling some of the photos you took as a tourist . I find it extremely unlikely that any government is gon na track down an amateur photographer after a trip and say " Hey , what kind of visa were you on when you took that photo ? " And even if it did happen , it 's such a gray area that you 'd be unlikely to get anything worse than a warning .
It 's perfectly normal to stay in several Schengen countries and arrive/depart from different countries , the Schengen area has been created to make things like that easier . You do n't need to worry about the plane tickets per se but you do need to present a coherent itinerary . Explain why you want to go to both countries , what you will do there ( with evidence like invitation , bookings , etc. as applicable ) and <URL> .
The restrictions made by the Congress on those possessing Iranian nationality are only to the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) . Canada is not a participant in the Visa Waiver Program . Canadians entering the US on Canadian passports do not do so under the VWP . I do not believe your parents will be affected by these changes . <URL>
It should be okay for you to apply for ESTA , because the visa you hold is not a B-1 or B-2 visa . If you were to travel to the United States for purposes of tourism , or business purposes unrelated to the visa you now hold , you would in fact be required to apply for ESTA or for a B visa . ( I 'm not sure , however , what will happen if you can check in using your ESTA , and subsequently enter using the visa . ) For example , at <URL> , you can see that for an E-2 visa " you must be coming to the United States to develop and direct the enterprise . " See also at <URL> : Q : What if a traveler has a current , valid visa ? A : Individuals who possess a valid visa will still be able to travel to the United States on that visa for the purpose for which it was issued . Individuals traveling on valid visas are not required to apply for an ESTA authorization . This implies that you can apply for ESTA to travel to the United States for a purpose other than one for which your valid visa was issued . You also express concern about whether you might have trouble when entering the United States , since you will have been indicated on the carrier 's passenger list as a VWP traveler , but you will be presenting a visa at entry . I doubt that you will have trouble because of it . I can think of two reasons you might : Applying for ESTA with no intention of using the VWP Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations , section 217.5 ( a ) says Each nonimmigrant alien intending to travel by air or sea to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) must , within the time specified in paragraph ( b ) of this section , receive a travel authorization ... You might therefore run into trouble because you do n't actually intend to travel to the US under the VWP . But it does n't actually say that those who do n't intend to travel can not receive the authorization . Furthermore , CBP notes that people can apply for ESTA <URL> . Checking in with ESTA and entering with a visa Here , I can only speculate , but I guess that the carrier is more likely to get in trouble for this than you are . You could approach the ground staff at the airport to correct your record with information about your visa , but this would defeat your apparent purpose of getting on the plane quickly and easily .
Having arrived at Malta airport February 1 , 2016 , there was a booth ( I think towards the right hand side from Arrivals ) where I was able to purchase a Tallinja card for $ 21 for 7-days . The booth also accepts Amex cards . This covers the whole of Malta and Gozo ( Għawdex ) . Whether or not this can be topped-up I 'm not sure . <URL>
The application only asks for your initial arrival date , not dates of every trip . Transit visas like most other US visas have a period of validity and a specified number of entries . The potential of getting a multiple entry C-1 or a limited number of entries ( 1 , 2 , etc ) depends on your citizenship . There is a webpage that you can enter the country of citizenship and see what the limits are on entries , validity , etc. . But these are maximums not guarantees , as the consular staff can decide to limit your visa to less time or less visits . <URL>
No , this will not work . Buying a return ticket and only using the first leg of it will certainly work - just make sure that you do n't skip any of the legs before the one ( s ) you intend to use to avoid the ticket being canceled . However what will not work is trying to book a refundable fare class for the return , and then obtaining a refund for that leg . The reason is , as you 've guessed it may be , in the " fine print " - or specifically in the fare rules . All airlines will have something like this in their fare rules and/or Contract or Carriage ( CoC ) : Specifically that example is from American Airlines , but the others will be similar . This means that if only one of the flights on a ticket is n't refundable , then neither are any of the other flights booked on the same ticket - even if they are different fare codes that would normally allow for refunds . If you were to ask the airline to cancel the return leg then they will normally " reprice " the entire ticket , which basically means that they will calculate the price again for the whole ticket - including legs you 've already flow ! This will put you back into the original situation of being after a one-way , and as the price of that will be higher than you 've already paid , there wo n't be a refund due . It 's worth keeping in mind that whilst one-way flights will sometimes be more expensive , they often come with better conditions ( eg , allowing changes and/or refunds ) that the cheaper return flights do not . Booking a return and simply not using the return portion may make sense if you saves you money - but make sure that you 're not taking a higher risk to save a small amount of money . In this case it looks like you 're saving around # 200 so it probably is worth doing , but if you were only saving # 20 then you 'd almost certainly be better off paying a little more for the one-way and the additional flexibility it probably gives you .
Indian nationals do not require a visa to enter Nepal . As per the Nepalese immigration , Indian nationals traveling to Nepal must posses any one of the following documents : Passport . Driving License with photo . Photo Identity card issued by a Government Agency . Ration Card with Photo . Election Commission Card with Photo . Identity Card issued by Embassy of India in Kathmandu . Identity Card with photo issued by sub-divisional magistrate or any other officials above his rank . Also , please check with your nearest travel agents for documents required by the Indian Immigration for Indians traveling to Nepal . Source : <URL>
Like any country , a visa is just an endorsement allowing you a specific period of time in a country based on your citizenship ( and other potential factors ) . However , once you 're at the border , the border agents / authorities can and will still make a further assessment . They might evaluate : your ability to support yourself while in the country your intent in the country ( you might be on a tourist visa , but they suspect you 're coming to work/do business ) your possessions ( eg if found with something illegal ) your history ( some countries wo n't let you in if your passport shows you 've been to countries that they 're not fans of ) as a result , yes , even if you have a legitimate visa , it 's still possible ( generally unlikely , but possible ) for you to be rejected at the border . For another question we have which is related to this , see <URL>
Answering my own question because this took a lot of legwork : We found precisely two insurers who cover travel beyond 26 weeks . ( Only for uncomplicated births : no multiples ( twins ) , no IVF . ) <URL> offers coverage up to 36 weeks in some countries . However , if you 're based in Australia , <URL> , and that requires an expensive " Pregnancy Extension Option " that pushed the insurance price to over $ 800 for 5 weeks ( ! ) . <URL> offers cover <URL> as a part of their standard policy , and will even provide a letter on request stating so ( handy for those US immigration authorities ) . They 're happy to insure residents of any country for travel to virtually any country , and while not cheap , at 323 euros the cost was still about half of what Columbus wanted . No prizes for guessing which one we went with ! Update : In the end , neither check-in nor US immigration noticed my wife is pregnant , and the birth occurred outside the US as well . So we never had to " test out " the insurance .
I do n't know how diligent each and every consulate is in enforcing this rule but in principle you should not be able to do that . Here is article 6 of the Schengen Visa Code : Consular territorial competence An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Point 2 provides a bit of leeway and point 1 could theoretically allow you to submit your application elsewhere and have it forwarded to the proper consulate but I am not aware of any Schengen countries offering this . To the best of my knowledge , you must generally be a resident in the UK to apply to one of the consulates there . Also note that visa applications for virtually all Schengen countries in London are handled by third-party outsourcing companies like VFS Global or TLS Contact . As a regular tourist , your application wo n't even reach the relevant consulate . I have n't check them all but the websites from the embassies of <URL> , <URL> , <URL> , <URL> or <URL> all contain language to that effect .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
Here 's the official announcement from the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs : <URL> . There 's no reason given for the increase . In the warnings for Turkish citizens travelling to foreign countries , I do n't see anything about visa rates for Australia having gone up , whereas there are announcements about changes for other countries .
end question
start question
Are there buses from the Sunshine Coast ( Coolum / Maroochydore ) to Brisbane airport ?
Yes , there are several , and most run multiple services a day . Most will stop along the way though - rather than being a direct service . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Prices and times vary , so it 's best you have a look and choose the best for you and your group .
<URL> and <URL> offer Free Wi-Fi , but no electric socket . As far as I know berlinlinienbus does n't offer Wi-Fi nor electric socket . Eurolines offers Wi-Fi and electric socket in the <URL>
It 's rare for tornadoes elsewhere , commercially at least . From <URL> : Some organized chasing efforts have also begun in the Top End of the Northern Territory and in southeast Australia , with the biggest successes in November and December . A handful of individuals are also known to be chasing in other countries , including Israel , Italy , Spain , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Finland , Germany , Switzerland , Bulgaria , Estonia , Argentina , and New Zealand ; although many people trek to the Great Plains of North America from these and other countries around the world ( especially from the United Kingdom ) . Overall , Australia seems like your best bet . It 's mostly enthusiasts up north , but they 're growing in numbers . A nice report on it <URL> , as well as <URL> . <URL> is probably your best bet for news on tornadoes and the like there , and <URL> would be the one to follow or contact to find out about any commercial groups operating . There are a few other random Storm Chasing websites in Aus , but they tend to be small individual groups , rather than commercial - however , you might find them keep to take you out for a trip , if you 're lucky : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Finally , it 's worth noting that most American Storm Chasing companies will keep an eye on the Canadian Prairies , especially during June - as there is the occasional opportunity for it up there , depending on the weather .
<URL> handles your problem . How to log on Select the ZurichAirport WLAN network Launch the browser ( e.g. : Internet Explorer , Firefox , Safari , ... ) on the device A connection to the login page is created automatically Select " Register " After registering , a code will be sent via text message Enter the code in the registration interface and click " Login " ( the code will be saved for twelve months ) No mobile phone or problems with text message reception ? For an access code you can use boarding pass scanners at the following locations : Service Center ( Airport Center , Level 1 ) Information ( Airside Center , Level 1 ) Airside Center , Level 1 beim Transit Hotel Switzerlandinfo , Arrival 2 Gates E , Level 2 next to Starbucks Gates E , Level 2 next to Alpenblick Bar Gates A , opposite to Starbucks ( A63 )
There is ! But there are n't any signs to tell you ... As explained on the <URL> , the SkyBus ticket office at the airport sells the <URL> . That costs $ 14 , and comes with $ 8 credit ( plus a few other bits ) . There are no signs at the SkyBus ticket office about myki , it is n't listed on any of the prices shown , but if you queue up and ask they 'll get one out of a secret drawer and sell one to you ! Once you 've bought your myki , it 's a moderately well signposted 1 minute walk to where the 901 bus goes from - follow the signs for Public Buses . Alternately , there are in theory some regular myki topup and purchase machines in <URL> , but they 're not well signed and rather hidden . You 're looking for a silver/grey machine with a blue sign on the top . I could n't find the T2 one , the T3 one is on the far left as you go to leave the baggage claim area by the toilets . For topping up a myki it may be worth hunting , though do n't forget you can also top up on the bus ! For visitors , heading to the SkyBus ticket office to buy one is likely to be much quicker and easier
You can easily fly to Zurich . The connections from Brussels to Zurich are way better than the connections from Brussels to Basel . And from Zurich you 're in less than a hour in Basel when you take the train . The prices for that train travel start around 15 Swiss franks . The SBB ( Swiss national train carrier ) has an <URL> . I found flights for around 300 euros for next week ( with <URL> ) You could also fly over Geneva to Zurich which is cheaper ( around 200 euro ) . Then I would think about only take the first leg of the flight , leave the plane in Geneva and take the train . But this really depends on the actual date and time you 're going to fly . You could also fly to Geneva , but this is a little bit further away from Basel . The train takes <URL> . There are also other airports nearby which may be useful ( even if I doubt it ) . This are particularly Friedrichshafen and Altenrhein .
Probably yes , via Europe , it should be possible , but you might have to travel parts of the journey overland . It will take a long time . You might not depart exactly from Washington DC , but I will assume elsewhere along the US east coast should be fine as well -- the travel from DC to the starting point of the ocean journey will be much less than the time for the rest of the journey , anyway . Also , I 'm not sure if you can disembark on a freighter in India , but perhaps you can disembark a couple of days ' train journey away ( still checking ) . You 're looking for <URL> . You might need to combine different freighters . They wo n't take a direct way , but will make many stops along the way that are not directly useful for you . For example : <URL> . <URL> in 17 days , or <URL> in 12 days , or <URL> in 11 days . <URL> . This may be more difficult ; the linked page states Embarke or disembarke in India or Pakistan is not possible anymore , but perhaps there are others travelling there . <URL> lists a freighter travelling by Antwerp , Bremerhafen and Rotterdam to Pakistan and India , six times per year . They do n't state any limits on disembarking , but contact them to be sure . It does n't list the exact travel time , but I would guess 3 -- 4 weeks to get from Europe to India ( the round trip time Europe -- India -- Europe is listed as 58 days ) .
<URL> has a pretty easy system if you want to book - you can book , and if your flight is delayed , <URL> . They do ask that you book in advance however , to ensure bookings where possible . A better option for your situation may be <URL> who specifically state : Sun Palm Transport is the only Transport Operator which has welcome desks at both the domestic and international arrival terminals . If you have n't already made a booking for your Cairns Airport Transfers , through our online booking system , SUN PALM TRANSPORT operates service desks at Cairns Airport , for your convenience , one in each of the arrival terminals , to assist you with your transfers So that one , you can actually just rock up . They also have timetables and more information on the site . <URL> requires a booking in advance . <URL> also seems to require an advance booking .
Yes : more specifically , the staff canteens at the airport are open to the public , serving authentic and tasty Singaporean fare at rock-bottom prices ! Despite the name " canteen " , these are mini-hawker centres with a dozen or so independently run stalls each specializing in specific dishes/cuisines . There are at least two of these . The one you 'll never find by accident is next to Terminal 2 : head out from Customs , turn left , cross the road , enter the carpark ( 2A ) and take the elevator up to level 3M , which is marked " Staff Canteen " . Here 's the illustrated journey , photos mine : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> The less exciting one is in the air-conditioned shopping mall below Terminal 3 , between the MRT station and arrivals .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
According to <URL> : Obtaining systemwide upgrades When you qualify or re-qualify for AAdvantage ® Executive Platinum status : And that 's it , as far as anything a typical frequent flyer can aim for in a given program year . Million Miler You get additional SWUs ( previously known as eVIPs or VIPOWs ) in the <URL> program , four for every million base miles after the first million . Thus , you get four at 2,000,000 miles , then another four at 3,000,000 , and so on . Gift SWUs can be gifted from another AAdvantage account . If you have a friend or colleague who , for example , has expiring SWUs they will not be able to use , you can ask them to have it applied to an upcoming trip of yours . There are several things to note : You must have actually booked a trip , as the SWU is applied to a particular PNR . The SWU is not transferred to your account ; it remains in the original account and is simply applied to your itinerary . The expiration date on the SWU is not reset . Bartering , selling , or trading the SWU for any other consideration is against the AAdvantage Terms and Conditions . There are <URL> people have attempted to use to sell benefits , and the airlines have no tolerance for any of them . Buying/bartering As I just said , the SWU is voided if sold or traded for cash or any other consideration -- but there 's more . AAdvantage is a private program administered by American Airlines , and so it is the judgment of American Airlines that determines whether or not you have broken the rules . They can not only cancel the cert but take away all your other miles and status , nullify your MM progress , or close your account and ban you for life from the program altogether . The airlines do monitor eBay , Craigslist , and other sites and investigate transactions they find suspicious . AA specifically was involved in the wholesale shutdown and revamping of the <URL> at FlyerTalk over these issues , and American Airlines items remain banned there completely . Customer service You 'll find anecdotal reports on the Internet of high value customers being given a SWU as a customer service gesture in some extreme cases , like someone in paid international first class being delayed two days and then downgraded to a middle seat in economy . It is likely that such a SWU would be inscribed on dragon skin , placed in a case made of unicorn horn , and delivered by a sasquatch wearing a coat of angel feathers . As you note , the SWU is an extremely valuable benefit , and an expensive one for AA . They have no reason to make it easy to obtain -- otherwise , they would essentially be giving away their most profitable seats , and the most desirable benefit offered to their most loyal customers .
Not really . You can actually easily check where you can fly from Quito via the <URL> looks like you are able to fly to Guayaquil
Provided you would like to go to the Hardrock Cafe in Amsterdam : take the train from Schiphol Airport to Amsterdam Central station ( 15 minutes or so ; you can plan details on <URL> ) . From Amsterdam Central Station take a tram number 1 , 2 or 5 and get out on <URL> ( again , some 15 minutes ) . <URL> ( 5 minutes or less )
The fastest way to get into town quickly ( barring a taxi , which is expensive and whose speed depends on traffic conditions ) is the commuter trains , <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) . These trains are also cheaper than the Metro when you 're going from or to the airport ( $ 1,75 for a 3-zone Cercanías ticket , vs $ 5 for a Metro ticket from the airport to the city ) . The downside of Cercanías is that they stop at fewer places . Line C-1 , which starts at the airport , stops at Recoletos , which is about 700m from the eastern end of Gran Via . You can change at Nuevos Ministerios for line 3 or 4 and get off at Sol , the next stop : that 's about 300 to 500m from anywhere on Gran Via . You can go from the ticket machines at the airport to street level on Puerta del Sol in 30min , not counting the time to wait for the train at the airport ; the train only runs every 30min . If you want to go to a precise Metro station , change for the Metro in the city . You 'll need a separate Metro ticket : $ 2 , or possibly down to $ 1.50 if your Metro trip is no more than 9 stations long . If you 're going to take the Metro a lot , get a 10-trip ticket for $ 12 . You can change at Chamartín and take line 1 to Gran Via , or change at Nuevos Ministerios and either take line 6 and change at Cuatro Caminos for line 1 to Gran Via , or take line 10 then change again at Tribunal for line 1 , or simply get off at Tribunal and walk a bit . You can also take the <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) all the way from the airport : take line 8 , change at Nuevos Ministerios for line 10 ( see above ) or change at Colombia for line 9 then at Núñez de Balboa for line 5 to Gran Via . The trip takes a little over an hour , so although the metros are more frequent , this does n't compensate for their being slower than Cercanías . I do n't know the station maps , but generally changing between Cercanías and the Metro is no more inconvenient than changing between two Metro lines . Avoid changing to Cercanías at Chamartín as finding the right platform can be a bit annoying .
45 minutes is fairly tight , but probably doable if you 're by yourself and coming from an EU country . I had a 1.5 hour stopover coming from the US and made it in sufficient time that 45 minutes would have been manageable , barely , with my wife and two children . You do n't have to check/recheck bags or anything like that I do n't believe ( at least from the US you do n't - I do n't know if a Schengen area country would change that ) . Passport lines were n't long at all when we traveled through , on a relatively busy weekend day mid-day . One thing to note : if your second flight is Germanwings ( Lufthansa 's budget airline ) , or even some Lufthansa operated smaller flights , it may be a bus ride to the airplane ; many departures in Munich are accessed via bus ( and some inbound , I believe , though not mine from the US ) . That could add a bit of time .
Yes . It is easy and you have several options . From the Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Airpot , you can easily reach ski resorts located in the Salzburger Land or even in Tyrol . There are <URL> . You also have tthe possibility to take a <URL> . Eventually , you can <URL> . As an example , <URL> are only a 30 minutes car drive from Salzburg . This means that you can easily reach it in an hour by bus . The big resorts , such as <URL> or the <URL> can be reached by a shuttle in roughly 90 minutes from Salzburg airport . If you intend to stay only a couple of days , like an extended weekend , Faistenau can be a good choice . It 's cozy and the ski resort is big enough . And it is not too far from the aiprort . If you want to check distances and travel time , you can use <URL> . That will give you a good estimate . Details for busses and shuttles are available via the airport 's website , by using the links given above .
In general , when using your card abroad you get charged ( some ) of the following fees Currency exchange fee A fee levied by your bank for using your card abroad A fee levied by the ATM operator In your case ( 1 ) will not apply because the currency is the same , but ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) might still apply . ( 2 ) you need to check with your bank , and you should be informed about ( 3 ) by the ATM . From personal experience , ( 3 ) is not very common in Europe .
Well , turns out this is really easy - I just entered a store and asked for a monthly plan which includes unlimited data , and the clerk was happy to offer me a choice between a couple of available plans , without any requirement except a credit card ( no need for zip code or credit check or American credit card / address ) . The store was T-Mobile , but I think other carriers offer similar deals as well . Just be aware that the listed plan prices usually do not include sim cost or one-time activation fee . Still , travelling with an Internet-enabled smartphone is amazing , and definitely worth some money . The sim card was activated almost immediately - I was able to data-surf while still in the store .
The most straightforward way would be taking the <URL> to Victoria Station ( the journey is about 30 mins ) . The Gatwick Station is directly connected to the South Terminal . From the North Terminal it 's a bit further and you need to take the automated shuttle train . Trains leave every 15 minutes . From Victoria Station you have no less than three options : take the underground/tube/metro / whatever-you-call-it Circle Line ( High Street Kensington direction ) and get out at Paddington stop . It 's gon na take about 20 minutes . Accordingly to Gagravarr 's comment you could also go from Victoria Line to Oxford Circus , then a cross-platform change to the Bakerloo Line up to Paddington . If the metro is closed , take the bus 436 to Paddington . For all those options , make sure you use the exit at the front of the train , not the exit on the upper floor through the elevators or escalators . You could also take a taxi , if the price is n't a concern for you . There are other possibilities I left out because they wo n't be faster or more straightforward than this . Note : be aware of the fact that , <URL>
Yes , there are several , and most run multiple services a day . Most will stop along the way though - rather than being a direct service . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Prices and times vary , so it 's best you have a look and choose the best for you and your group .
end question
start question
Is it safe to drink water with a strong chlorine smell ?
My understanding is that chlorine , in the concentrations found in drinking water , does not pose an acute health danger . There may be health risks associated with long-term exposure , and this is a more controversial topic , where the literature and expert opinions are mixed . Most main-stream information seems to suggest it 's safe , but the skeptics claim a corporate bias , etc. . Some of the long-term exposure risks reported are <URL> . Note that much of claimed risk is associated with long , hot showers , not drinking it . If you 're only visiting for a while , and do n't have any known Chlorine sensitivities , you 'll probably be just fine . If the taste bothers you , or you 're especially concerned about long-term health affects , drink bottled water . Some related SE posts : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I you see the trend of tourist coming to Nepal by land in 2013 . It shows more than 200000 tourist come from land and obviously from India . There are different route for coming to the border of Nepal , Some people also take train also . There are different entering route from Delhi , some famous are Bhairahawa , Birgunj , Mahendranagar . But connecting point is Narayangarh . Rode upto Narayangarh is better safe and construction is also going for widen up . But rode from Narayangarh-Muglin-Kathmandu looks danger as Tom said above specially in Rainy season .
my name is Karyne . I am French , 40 years old and started fulltiming 8 years ago in my RV . I have been fulltiming mainly in South Spain , South Portugal and some parts of France , and I 'd like to share my experience and observation with you . First of all , to avoid confusion : we call European recreational vehicles " motorhomes " , and US ones " RVs " . Most Fulltimers in Europe chose to live onboard RVs for the obvious reasons that they are made for proper living onboard in all comfort , when motorhomes are mostly made for Partimers . We call Fulltimers people who live 100 % of the time in their RV or motorhome . Anybody staying part of the year in a house are Partimers . Amongst all RV and motorhome users in Europe , I 'd say that there might be around 5 % Fulltimers . Fulltimers in Europe are probably around 95 % retired people above 60 years old . There are very few mid-age Fulltimers . The Fulltimer community , in particular for mid-age people is not organised at all like in the US where there are special web-sites for temporary jobs or jobs-on-the-go dedicated to RVers , so it is n't easy to find a way to earn a living . The elder community however is better organised . perhaps because they move less than us and tend to go from point A ( North country ) for 4 month in same campsite to point B ( South country ) for the rest of the year . They tend to Jamboree and have plenty of time to spare and meet friends . Many of us mid-age RVers often need to " square-wheel " for a while , parked in a place where there is work ( my case for the moment ) , but we never ever leave our trucks !!! It 's in you or not ... Well hope this might have helped a bit . Plenty of hellos from Southern Spain to all Fulltimers ... xxx Karyne Hi guys , Karyne again . I have red some of the posts , and I think there might be a big confusion for all of you between Partimers and Fulltimers . Please read above for details . However , as far as the Partimer market is concerned , it is surely huge and predominant . I also forgot to mention that the worse the economical crisis gets , the more people are looking towards alternative ways of leaving and moving to other countries . So yes surely campsites are full of square-wheelers all over the place . A monthly campsite 's pitch fee is not cheap , very similar to a small apartment 's rental ( 300 $ to 400 $ ) , and to get best rates we always ask for a special long term stay , usually 3 month , but once you add all extra costs ( electricity , water , taxes etc ) , campsites are cheaper , kids can still play in a safe garden , there is no maintenance at all to do apart from your own rig , etc etc. . Karyne ... AGAIN ... lol I was contacted in 2007 by Jim Twamley , Professor of RVing , in order to write an article for www.rvtravel.com about fulltiming in Europe . You can read it here : <URL> Of course since then loads of things have changed in my life , including husband , lol , I started to travel alone , following friends or my parents who are also fulltimers nowdays , but I 'm still in the same RV ... Concerning fulltimer cost of living , of course it all depends from how many people are travelling , if there are any pets , pulling a trailer or A-frame for a car ... it all adds up . I have personally noticed that campsites stay or wild camping often evens out . Simple , if you wild camp you do n't spend on your pitch but you do on gas ( there are extremely few wild camp places where you can stay longer than a few nights ) . Of course the longer you can stay the more you are saving . The rest stays the same ... food etc. . We take the principle of 800 $ to 1.000 $ a month for a couple , assuming you stay in a campsite at least 3 month at a time to get up to 50 % discount , or keep on moving from wild camp to wild camp . Feel free to contact me by mail on barb.fulltimer@hotmail.com or look for my name Karyne Fouillet on FaceBook . If I can be of any help , it 'll be a pleasure . xxx
Short answer : Yes , it 's possible ! Long answer : You will have to inform yourself with the airline you 're flying with if they allow bikes on the plane , how much it costs , and how big the box you put it in can maximum be . Also it might be interesting to know if they allow cardboard boxes ( otherwise you will have to get yourself a hard-case box to put your bicycle in ( which can be expensive ! ) ) . A lot of good information can be found here : <URL> ( I 'm not sure how up-to-date this one actually is , but it contains a list of a lot airlines and their regulations with respect to bicycles as luggage ! ) <URL> <URL>
In principle it is possible . However , one has to foresee one or two extra steps before starting to plan the trip per se . Your friend should first talk to his doctor . He is the person to ask . In principle dialysis patients can travel , but not without receiving green light from their doctors . The local hospitals can assist patients to make the necessary arrangements for the dialysis abroad . Dialysis patients probably ca n't go everywhere in the world . They have to go to a place where they can receive the appropriate treatment . Dietary requirements are also likely to restrict the choice . The most obvious and easy option for your friend would be to travel within Switzerland . Distances are short , the country has a lot to offer , arrangements can easily be take and reimbursement is not an issue . Travel in Europe should not be a big issue either . Check with your health insurance what the exact modalities and possibilities are .
I live in Singapore , and have taken ferries to Batam and Bintan ( another nearby island ) . Let me first clear up the confusion you have acquired by reading that page on Travelfish.org . They mention that the ferry to Indonesia takes " a couple of days " and " is no cheaper than flying . " They are not referring to the ferry to Batam , but rather to the overall journey from Singapore to Java , which as outlined in the article takes three legs , Batam being the first , easiest , and least significant . With that out of the way : these ferries are extremely safe . The terminal and vessels bear some resemblance to a small airport , and none to the sometimes-chaotic " bumboat " ferries that make short trips elsewhere in the region . The ships are proper ships , with proper seating , very seaworthy in appearance , and completely sealed against the weather ( which is often calm anyway ) . The ferry trip is not very long and the crew are professional . Singaporeans in general are not people who tolerate unsafe conditions ( and there are plenty of them taking these ferries , due to work and also the many golf courses in Batam and Bintan ) . Enjoy the trip . If it were n't for the interesting scenes of cargo ships everywhere , you 'd probably find it boring !
I 'm living in a high populated area ( at least for NZ 's standard ) in Auckland , but the question goes for the whole country . Yes . Except in exceptional circumstances , NZ tapwater is universally safe to drink . Standards exist to ensure that major contaminating organisms such as Protozoa and Cryptosporidium are removed or reduced to safe levels . Auckland water comes from two mains sources . West Auckland and some other parts of Auckland receive water from the Waitakere ranges catchment . Other areas receive water from the Hunua catchment and via pipeline from the Waikato river . The Waikato water is heavily contaminated at source and is treated to achieve requisite standards . Auckland water is among the " softest " in NZ and better than most available in major cities internationally . eg whereas car batteries usually specify distilled water for topping up it is safe to use Ak tap water for this purpose . There are variations between regions but these are mostly related to the nature of the water source . All NZ tap water is chlorinated . About half of all NZ tapwater is fluoridated , with exceptions where local action has seen removal of fluoride from the water . Some consider fluoridation a negative measure with respect to health . The majority opinion sees it as a positive . The debate continues . Drinking water standards for New Zealand : The following document was found by following a series of links starting at the one provided by Mark Mayo in his answer . This is a 136 page PDF which provides extensive details . <URL> This is part of the NZ Ministry of Health online library . NZ Ministry of Health library - water related items . A very large &amp; useful resource : <URL> . Only a few of the titles as a sample : Resources for the drinking-water assistance programme - numerous papers , including : Treatment options for small drinking-water supplies Sustainable management of small drinking-water supplies : Optimisation of small drinking-water treatment systems Sampling and monitoring for small drinking-water supplies Water safety planning for small community water supplies : step-by-step risk management guidance for drinking-water supplies in small communities . Annual report on drinking-water quality Estimation of the burden of water-borne disease in New Zealand International standards for drinking-water Guidelines for drinking-water quality ( World Health Organization . ) Development of drinking-water standards for New Zealand Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand 1995 Drinking-Water standards for New Zealand Guidelines for drinking-water quality : first addendum to third edition Drinking water quality : problems and solutions ( Gray , N. F. ) Provisional microbiological water quality guidelines for recreational and shellfish-gathering waters in New Zealand Community water fluoridation Cost benefit analysis of raising the quality of New Zealand networked drinking water Draft protocols for the public health grading of drinking-water supplies Pathogens and pathways , and small drinking-water supplies ... And many more ... . Chlorination : <URL> <URL> Fluoridation : <URL> <URL> The use of water fluoridation first began in New Zealand in Hastings in 1954 . A Commission of Inquiry was held in 1957 and then its use rapidly expanded in the mid 1960s . [ 96 ] New Zealand now has fluoridated water supplied to about half of the total population . [ 97 ] Of the six main centres only Christchurch [ 98 ] and Tauranga [ 99 ] do not to have a fluoridated water supply . In 2013 a Hamilton City Council committee voted to remove fluoride from late June 2013 . [ 100 ] A referendum was held during the council elections in October 2013 with approximately 70 % of voters voting for fluoride to be added back into the water supply . The mayor and most councilors have indicated that they will support the outcome of the referendum . [ 101 ] In a 2007 referendum about half of voters in the Central Otago , South Otago and the Southland Region did not want fluoridation [ 102 ] and voters in the Waitaki District were against water fluoridation for all Wards . [ 103 ] Ashburton and Greymouth also voted against fluoridation . [ 104 ] <URL> <URL> <URL>
Virtually all municipal water systems in the United States provide clean and safe drinking water . Water supplies are regulated by the government and must be tested regularly . Water safety problems are generally well publicized , often national news if they are significant , and emergency notices are issued if a rare temporary situation , such as a water main break , results in unsafe water . Note that the situation may be different for well water in remote areas , but if you 're in such a place , chances are good you 're talking to the owner of the well , who can advise you . Specifically at Yale , you might see <URL> from the Yale Daily News about New Haven tap water . You may read the most recent <URL> from the South Central Connecticut Regional Water Authority for up-to-date information . The local water meets all regulatory standards . Some old buildings may have old pipes that can impart an off taste or even leach <URL> into the water . While it may be worth testing for lead someplace where small children will be living for years , I would n't be concerned about an adult taking a five week course . You should also <URL> . If you do n't like the taste of your water , you could consider investing in a <URL> , which you can keep in a refrigerator to ensure you have a supply of cold drinking water . I ca n't say whether you 'll like that taste better , but it should be at least a bit different after passing through the filter . Bottled water is another choice , but note that most bottled water is simply US tap water , and that the legal requirements for bottled water are actually <URL> than the ones for tap water . You can also fill up a water bottle at drinking fountains or <URL> on campus .
The travel advisory from <URL> or <URL> sound rather positive . Usually I would not answer based only on that but since they tend to be conservative in their advice , it seems Congo is not a country of particular concern . The only thing mentioned are the usual ( for African countries ) warnings about poor neighborhoods , road travel and going out at night . Some attacks on travelers have apparently been reported in the border regions ( the border with the Central African Republic in the North , in the Cuvette Ouest département near Gabon and in the Pool département outside of Brazzaville itself in the south ) but some of these reports might be old .
Even when they do not measure now , it is likely that they will measure in the future . Are you willing to invest money in a good quality case that you might not be able to use on flights in the future ? I have never seen them on the airport scales , but in many places they have little lines ( or build in lines ) that show the outlines on the maximum sizes . I have never seen someone who was told to check in his case as oversized luggage , but I am not a frequent flyer . And when they are out of your view , luggage handlers have the time to take out a tape measure when your case does not fit in the spot they want it to take .
Historically Seoul has had a number of issues with drinking water . Most recently the issue was n't the water itself , but the pipes that delivered it , which many people claimed introduced contaminates . I can still remember being told by someone I was working with there about 10 years ago that the water was safe to drink in my hotel , but not in their office block located a few blocks away - I 'm still not sure exactly how he came to that conclusion ! Over recent years the local government-run water supplier has made significant efforts to replace all of the " old " pipes , and has taken additional measures around treatment of water . The water is considered safe and drinkable under UN criteria , and although many locals still do not trust it , there 's little doubt that it 's as safe as tap water in any other major first-world city . There 's numerous more information available on <URL> website . Note that all of the above comments relate to the water in Seoul . If you 're heading outside of the main metropolitan area then things could be very different and I would suggest only drinking bottled water in those areas .
Buy two full-fare tickets . They are typically fully refundable . Obviously , check before you purchase . You typically buy directly from the airline . Then , whether she says yes or no , get them refunded and buy something sane . You 'll have to pay a small charge , but nothing compared to the fare difference . Or -- and this is cheaper if you are going to just print the ticket yourself -- forge the tickets completely . Just take an old ticket and replace the dates and destinations .
I travelled to Erbil two months back . You should not have any issues but it is not advised to stay for many weeks . The same is not the case with Kirkuk and Sulaymaniyah . During my stay I was advised to not leave Erbil city because of possibility of widespread terror attacks . However , i am not sure if this qualifies for all types of trips . It is not a place for tourism at this point of time . However , if you are on some sort of business trip it should be quite safe .
<URL> and <URL> are two services often used to find accommodation hosted by locals . Airbnb accommodation is paid and varies from mansions to hay bales . By specifying " Shared room " or " Private room " in your search , you can often find rooms , mattresses , etc. in apartments or houses occupied by locals . The degree of interaction with your host depends on the specific stay ; reading descriptions and reviews will help you find the experience you want . Couchsurfing is free of charge , but guests are expected to contribute a reasonable amount in terms of conversation , chores , maybe a gift , etc ( leave your accommodation nicer than you found it ) . You can probably find the homestay experience you 're looking for on either site , the difference being that , because of Airbnb 's cost , its hosts will generally expect slightly less in terms of nonmonetary contribution from guests ( although gifts , conversation , and helping with chores are certainly welcome ) . On the whole , accommodation from either site will be safe and pleasant ; as with any part of the sharing economy , reviews and ratings provide information you can use to increase your chances of a positive experience .
Realistically , assuming you can get permission to visit Tibet ( the permission for which is separate from the rest of China ) , the most dangerous part of a visit by a Westerner seems to be the actual flight into Lhasa Gonggar airport . This is recognized by many pilots as one of the most dangerous landings in the world . Please note that there have n't been more accidents than ' normal , ' it is just a very difficult landing which requires special training and only those pilots who are especially licensed for the airport are allowed to land at it . Crime against tourists in Tibet is almost wholly unheard of . There are the sorts of petty crimes that occur anywhere in the world , such as pick-pocketing at the markets , but by and large , tourists are not subjected to it . Enjoy your trip to the top of the world , and know that you 've gone to a place most of us have never or could never go !
Maybe you are a bit too paranoid . I go to Paris quite regularly and I usually stay in hotels beyond the boulevard périphérique , for exactly the same reason that you mention . Personally , I never had any problem , nor did I feel particularly unsafe . However , when I go by car , I never park it in the street . I leave it in a closed or guarded car park . The hotel I am usually staying at is quite close to 2 metro stations . The way to the metro stations is safe , even after dusk . These areas can be a bit gloomy and It is true that some areas beyond the boulevard périphérique can be dangerous . Nevertheless the places where the hotels are located are okay . Note that in Paris " intra muros " there are gloomy and dangerous areas as well ... Wherever you stay and you go , do not forget that Paris is a large city , with everything this implies . But , when you stick to the usual cautions , you should have a safe stay , intra and extra muros .
Not really . Indonesian traffic cops in general and Balinese traffic cops in particular love <URL> and not having an IDP means an " instant fine " for you . Also note that you must have a motorcycle license in your home country and an IDP that covers this , an ordinary car license wo n't do . Then again , given that you can usually get away for Rp 50,000 ( ~ US$ 5 ) , if you 're only there for a short time you can do the math to figure out which is cheaper . Rental agencies do not care either way , although any insurance you may have may be invalidated if you do n't have a valid IDP . ( And no , I would n't usually recommend breaking the law , but if you 're a licensed driver with a license in English , this silly insistence on expensive additional pieces of paper is not much short of a scam in itself . )
These are the ones I look at : Official : <URL> <URL> <URL> Unofficial : <URL> Sometimes I just search on google " [ country name ] travel safety " That 's about all I can think of at the moment .
As far as UAE is concerned , there is only one issue at hand - since you are not going to consume alcohol inside the UAE but on-board the aircraft ; where they do not check your religion . If you appear publicly intoxicated , you are breaking the law . That 's it . So , as long as you can " hold your liquor " , you 'll be fine . The problem is that " intoxicated " is not a defined in the law ; unlike the US and some other places there is no field sobriety test . Pretty much you are at the mercy of the official . So , if you appear Muslim and are smelling of alcohol ; this may get you in trouble - especially if you are not a UAE citizen . I would recommend a breath mint , mouthwash , or perhaps some other method of calming your nerves during flight . I know some colleagues they use sleeping aids to help them rest - but of course , take these at the advice of your doctor .
Currency inflow/outflow in India is regulated under the Foreign Exchange Management Act . <URL> : Import of Indian Currency is prohibited . However , in the case of passengers normally resident in India who are returning from a visit abroad , import of Indian Currency upto Rs . 7500 is allowed . This translates to roughly USD 150 ( depending on current exchange rates ) . There is no limit on amount you can bring in foreign currency into India . If the amount is above USD 5000 in cash or if carried in form of travellers cheques + cash , then any amount above USD 10,000 has to be declared using a customs declaration form when entering India . Even though you are technically allowed to bring in large amounts of cash/money in other forms , you may be asked questions by Customs officials when you hand in your declaration form . I believe the limit your bank has mentioned refers to the first rule , although at current exchange rates it wo n't translate to 200 Swiss francs . In practice customs officials rarely , if ever , check how much currency a traveller is carrying but if you do get stopped for inspections for any reason and they find you exceeding any of the limits mentioned above , then they can take action against you .
end question
start question
How to find budget accommodation in Iran ?
If you are interested in meeting people I would definitely suggest Couchsurfing . As an Iranian I can assure you they 'd love to provide host , specially to foreigners . You can find many CouchSurfers in big cities . Here is just a sample search for <URL> . Unfortunately , in Iran there are not ( yet ) many good hostels as you can find in Europe . And you should n't expect to see an international environment in the hostels there either . Maybe in close future but not yet . Also TripAdvisor has a great database of comments for hotels and restaurants . An an example I give you a list of restaurants and hotels in Tehran sorted by their rankings ( A restaurant is always a good place to meet/communicate with Iranians ) : Tehran hotels : <URL> Tehran restaurants : <URL> Enjoy your trip to Iran EDIT Seems like there have been changes since my original answer and recently more qualified hostels have been giving service to tourists ! I 'll gradually add other suggested hostels here ( list is sorted by date ) . - Seven Hostels : Location : Tehran Seems fairly good ( at least in the photos ! ) . Website : <URL> - Tehran Hostel : Location : Tehran ( obviously !? ) - GPS coordinates : 35.715353,51.470853 ( Close to the Sabalan metro station and BRT bus line ) ( Recommended by many travellers ( <URL> ) ! ) Website : <URL>
As a general rule , Cape Verde is not very developped for tourism , except in some specific areas ( ie . Santa Maria on the island of Sal , which is full of hotels , bed-n-breakfast , &amp; surf-camps ) . My impression is that because of this , the range of accommodation options is not very wide . So most of the times , you have to go for the local hotel or bed - &amp; - breakfast . Price of local hotels usually starts around 38 $ for a double room ( breakfast included ) , &amp; 30 $ for a single room ( breakfast included ) . Some of these hotels or bed - &amp; - breakfast can be excellent though . You might run into extremely cheap hotels when in more remote places : ie . Tarrafal de Montetrigo , on the island of Sant Antao , we paid 15 $ for a double room , without breakfast , without hot water , but very clean . As a rule of thumb , travelling as a group of 2 to 5 people might be the best option to get cheap accommodation . You can then share a bedroom , a flat , &amp; so on ( btw : same goes for transportation , hiring a guide , ... ) . You rarely find youth hostels , except in some cities . See for instance in Mindello <URL> A good option is to stay at some local 's . You might just ask someone you meet , a taxi driver or else . But it might mean not having hot water &amp; sleeping in rougher conditions ( bad mattress , noisy rooster next door , etc ) . This will be probably the cheapest option , starting around 10 $ per night , for 2 people ( breakfast not included of course ) . Airbnb seems to be a great option in order to get good accommodation at a very descent price . Especially if you are a group of people , and can rent a whole studio/apartement . At the time of writting ( 2015 ) , Airbnb seems to be developing slowly but surely . Some organisations also provide services where you can do activities ( ie . hikes ) &amp; stay at some local 's house . I heard these were very good . Price is not cheap though , as you go through some agency , starting around $ 200 per person for 3 nights &amp; 4 days . Wild camping is a great option , many parts of the country are very quiet &amp; several locals told me it was no problem to put your tent in the country side . Or just ask a farmer if you can use a piece of his land . If you look for camping gear , you probably can only get it in the biggest cities ( Mindello , Praia , &amp; so on ) . CouchSurfing is also an option , although there is not so many members I 've been told . I met a few when in Santa Maria ( island of Sal ) &amp; it was a great experience .
According to <URL> ( 2006 ) , your GPS reading at the western bend of the road between Rasht and Qazvin corresponds almost perfectly to " Mo-Allem Kalayeh : Suspected nuclear research center " . However ! <URL> gives the site 's coordinates as <URL> , which is a ) a lot closer to where <URL> thinks Moallem Kalayeh ( معلم كلايه ) is located , and b ) nowhere near where you went . That said , the FAS site seems to be simply matching names to towns , so it 's by no means clear which of the two is wrong ...
you could try <URL> or <URL> ; people there often have a spare room , and if you can pay for it they might be happy to give you a place for a few weeks and not just for a few days . Otherwise try <URL> , or <URL> .
Dörtyol Ticaret Merkezi Misafirhanesi , which apparently means " trade centre guesthouse " had a room with shared bathroom available for 12 Azeri manat as of August last year . That 's about 11 euro or $ 15 USD currently . This comes from somebody calling themself <URL> on <URL> Apparently the cheapest option according to the author .
Basically , the answer is no . It 's anecdotal but I have heard many reports about people being denied entry to the US based on repeated travel to " unfriendly " countries , never to European countries ( and especially not to the Schengen area ) . Generally speaking , there is a sharp distinction in the US between citizens and residents , whose rights enjoy strong legal protections , and foreigners , for whom everything goes , especially at the border . Not so in the EU . It 's not to say that EU countries are exemplary ( they are not , you can find many egregious examples of that ) but there is an expectation of due process at the border and a rather restrictive list of valid reasons to deny entry . Denying entry based solely on your having visited a third country is not common practice and would probably not be legal . Beyond fraud and intent to immigrate illegally , the main reason to deny entry is that you present a threat to public safety and the hurdle for that is higher than just having visited a country .
If you rent an Automatic , you 'll be given an Automatic . If you do n't rent an Automatic , you will most likely be given a manual . In countries like Ireland ( presuming you mean Killarney , Ireland ? ) , the majority of rental cars will be manual , and renting an automatic will almost certainly be more expensive . On a rental I had in the UK a few weeks ago , the prices for an automatic ranged from 2 times to 5 times the price of a manual , and at least one company was " sold out " of all automatics whilst still renting manuals . As with any rental cars , there 's always the possibility that they will not have what you 've booked when you arrive . This is normally caused by people not returning vehicles on time , leaving the location short of a specific type of car . This is no difference regardless of whether you book an auto or a manual , with the exception that as companies in the UK normally have less autos available there is potentially a greater chance of this happening when you book an auto . If this does happen , you should ask the company to make you a booking at a different rental company and cover the additional costs ( if any ) .
I 'm planning on visiting Texas ( Flying to Houston , planning to drive around somewhere between Houston and New Orleans ) from The Netherlands some time soon . We want to do a mini ( = 2 weeks ) roadtrip in and around the Houston area . Well , with this in mind you would want to avoid the summer months . In Houston it can get quite hot and its humid since its right on the coast . The drive to New Orleans ( which I have done as well ) is nice , as you get to go across the bottom of Texas and Louisiana ( on I-10 ) . Its about a 6 hour drive ( depending on the traffic ) . You may even catch a glimpse of a riverboat casino around Beaumont ( the border town to Louisiana ) . However , we are not used to hot and humid weather and would like to avoid really hot weather if possible . So far I have been reading good things about the end of October , beginning of November . ( Good temperature ) Will this be a good time to visit this area ? What about hurricanes or storms ? Do some tourist attractions close during specific months ? Thunderstorms and other severe weather is a spring time phenomenon . I would be surprised if you ran into a tornado warning in October or November , as during these months the weather is getting progressively cooler . This would a good time to visit as you 'd have quite a respite from the heat . The major tourist attractions in Houston have to do with the space program , and these are open during your time frame . I spent a great amount of time in central Texas ; here is what I can tell you : Texas is big . It is the largest of the contiguous states ; ( the largest by area is actually Alaska ) . You can find all kinds of terrain , environment and even weather in Texas . You can easily spend a few weeks and still not explore everything there is to see . It gets hot in the summer time . You are looking at temperatures around 45C during the day . At night it cools down a bit . The really humid part of Texas is in the south near Houston / San Antonio . If its not hot , then you have to worry about severe weather ( tornadoes ) and thunderstorms . They are rarely as bad as what the movies show . The midwest is also known as tornado alley . In my opinion : July - August ( hot + humid ) September - November ( best time in my opinion , very nice mild weather , and it gets pleasantly cool at night ) December - Jan ( avoid , it can get cold during these months ) . Late Feb - Mid-march ( great time to visit , lots of sporting events and great weather ) . Budget wise , Texas is actually quite affordable . The main metropolitan areas ( Dallas , Austin , Houston ) have similar price structures as any other major city . However , taxes are quite forgiving . My personal favorite city is Austin because I am a fan of live music and you can always find live music in the clubs/bars . It is known as the " Live Music Capital of the World " . Try to stay in the outskirts as accommodation within the city limits can get quite expensive .
I 'm an undergraduate in Korea ( South ) . Quick answer for your question is " impossible " though you can find some people " acting " kisaeng ( -_- ?! ) There are 2 types of kisaeng in korea nowadays Real kisaeng They are who really worked ( ? ) as kisaeng until 1940 's but not anymore since kisaeng has become illegal " job " ( 1945 I ca n't find the exact bill related at the moment ) . However Korean government chose some famous kisaeng still alive and let them teach young people to learn kisaeng skills such as dancing , poems , drawing and so on in order to preserve the culture of kisaeng but for you it would be really hard to meet these people since there are very few left Who learned skills . They are the one you can find in Korea if you visit here <URL> In today 's Korea people do n't have a job called kisaeng but some remain as nationally approved kisaeng ; this is somewhat like American Indians as I know there are no Indians in US but you can find some in some preserved places ( this may not be true but to help you understand ) . ki = 技 ( hanja/Chinese character ) = skilled saeng = 生 ( Chinese character ) = person kisaeng == kinyo ( hard to tell you correct pronunciation ) ki = same as above nyo = 女 ( Chinese character ) = female You might find it curious that Koreans use Chinese characters to write Korean but during the Chosun dynasty ( 1392-1897 ) , when kisaengs lived , people used Chinese characters for written language although the Korean alphabet ( Hangul ) was invented in 1443 by King Sejong .
Tallinn : Although I do n't attend many concerts most of the tickets are usually being sold on <URL> .
It 's actually really easy and common , it turns out . Pity , as I bought a suit in Canada in advance . If you come out of Sa'adi metro station , and walk west - between the station and Ferdowsi avenue on both sides , there are a LOT of suit hire places . Many of them have tuxes as their show pieces in the window , but have regular suit hire too . I 've seen it elsewhere in Tehran , as well as other Iranian cities , but this was the biggest grouping that I found .
Personally I 'd try and do what the locals do , and use their transport - it 'll be more fun and you 'll meet people that you would n't get to if you were driving your own car . Plus you wo n't get lost , and you 'll be able to look around and enjoy what you 're seeing . According to perennial favourite <URL> , vans ( or L3s as they are called there ) cost about 80 pesos per person from Caticlan to Kalibo and they take approximately 45 minutes to 1 hour . Look for an air conditioned van ( which might come at a slightly inflated price of 10 to 20 pesos more per person ) . That gives you a rough price guide at least to bargain for - I suspect you may have to come prepared to negotiate ;) There 's also Jeepneys - a Jeepney to Kalibo from Caticlan takes about 1 to 1.5 hours and will cost you about 45 Pesos . Find them at Jeepney-Php 45 , FX Taxi - Php 90 , Terminal Roxas Ave. Street Kalibo , or use the Aklan Shuttle Bus-Php 100 up , Terminal Airport And what sounds the most fun to me : Motorized tricycles will take you just about anywhere in Kalibo for a standard rate of 6.50 Pesos ( 6 Pesos 50 Centavos ) . Foreigners are commonly asked for much higher rates but the drivers must accept the 6.50 peso rate by law .
There are no Kolping houses in Leipzig , and hardly any in eastern Germany as such . You will have to find an alternative . The biggest student accomodation in Leipzig is <URL> , but you need to prove that you are studying in Leipzig before you get a room there . Another solution is the " <URL> " which is however strongly religious ( reformed ) and they are not really clear if you need to be a student to live there . You best bet might be one called <URL> , which is more of an independent company running student homes ( also as a investment opportunity ) . They operate <URL> , and do so also for non-students , with a special <URL> and the whole website is available in English .
Unterkunft - the most general word that includes everything else ( just like accomodation ) Hotel Gasthof , Gasthaus - translates best as " inn " , may or may not offer rooms as well as food Pension - similar to bed &amp; breakfast , the most common in rurual areas Berghütte , Hütte - shelter for hikers and mountaineers in alpine areas , generally offers only shared rooms Ferienwohnung , Ferienappartment - apartment for short-term rental , will have bathroom and cooking facilities . May be part of a larger complex or the owner 's house . Ferienhaus , Ferienbungalow - same , but implies a separate building Jugendherberge - Youth hostel
I know that some starwood hotels allow you to entirely skip the check-in process and simply walk up to your room and <URL> ; although this is n't anonymous . I also know of some hotels that allow you to check in as an alias ; but again , this is n't anonymous this is just an extra layer of privacy to prevent people from asking for you by simply calling the reception . It is also used as a layer of security by some . Truly anonymous clandestine checkin - where you simply open a door , walk up to the key rack , pick up your key and go off to your room , if there is such a place , I would definitely like to visit it . It may have been possible years ago , but this day of cross border terrorism and whatever else , data collection has become a sort of fever for any and all jurisdictions that hope to attract any kind of tourist dollars . You may have been able to do so previously , but I doubt you can today : Even if you use a pre-paid anonymous card , or have someone else pay for your room booking , you need to show proof of who you are when you arrive to collect the keys . The name on the reservation has to match the person asking for the key . This name can be an alias , but that is not the definition of anonymous . Further , it goes towards security and liability on the part of the hotel . God forbid there is some incident - say a fire or other such security issue , they need to know who is checked in where , who is accounted for , etc. . As mentioned by others , some jurisdictions mandate collection of hotel guest data as part of their overall security procedures/requirements - if they do n't they are breaking the law and may be subject to fines or worse suspension of their license to operate . It may be true that you are able to skip a lot of this formality if you use more informal means of stay ( like airbnb , hostels , or staying with friends/colleagues ; room sharing ) but I do n't think that was in scope of your question .
This is definitely possible . I grew up in the Alps and I can think of at least a dozen places like that . The problem is that most of them are privately owned and it might not be so easy to get access to one . There is a <URL> about renting such huts in Switzerland , but unfortunately the listings are only in German . Note that even if some of the house is not totally isolated you can be quite sure to be alone if you go there in low season during the week as those are nowadays mostly used as holiday homes . You should be looking into something which is accessible only by walking to increase your chances of being let alone . Note that most of those places will have running water ( water being abundant in the Alps ) , maybe electricity via a solar panel but most likely no Internet .
There is no single source to check if there is Wi-Fi in a certain flight or not . The best thing you can do right now is to check the airline 's website to see if the flight supports Wi-Fi or not . Remember , if the airline advertises Wi-Fi that does not mean all its fleet/flights has it . Sometimes certain types of airplanes in an airline have it while others do n't , same goes for routes , like in American Airlines where Wi-Fi is supported within the US only ! international flights with the same airline will be without Wi-Fi . Alternatively , use google to search using a query like , usually the first link will have an answer . Regarding safety of the Wifi , it is safe to turn on . Check <URL> to other similar question , it will answer your question .
You best option is to stay at the camping of Rock Werchter ( camping tickets should be bought separately , since they are not included in you combi ticket ) . Camping &amp; food You 'll most likely arrive at Leuven station by train . There are a lot of free buses from Leuven , which brings you near the campings . You could best buy some cheap food in a supermarket in Leuven or at a small supermarket at the camping itself ( which is more expensive ) . You could also bring your own travel cooking gear . Fun &amp; keep stuff safe Personally , I think hanging out at the camping is the most fun of festivals . Perhaps there are lockers , but I 've never used them . Just do n't bring super expensive stuff I would say , because there is always a risk of things getting stolen , although normally you should be safe .
I ended up applying for the visa at the embassy in Tehran and picked it up 7 days later in Mashhad . A few points : it was not ready after six days it was n't even ready on the morning of the 7th day , but after some phone calls from the guy at the consulate to Ashgabat , it was ready in the afternoon of the 7th day . You pay when picking up the visa , in my case it was $ 50 USD I 've got a 3 day rather than a 5 day transit visa , not sure why , but the nice guy at the consulate was able to change it to 5 days without an additional fee . You can not change your entry and exit border crossings when picking up the visa , so make sure you pick the right ones when applying . You can apply and collect in both Tehran and Mashhad . You do n't leave your passport with them between application and collection . You can not get any visa at the border crossings . The embassy in Tehran is closed on both Turkman and Iranian holidays , even minor ones . In Tehran the embassy is open Mondays to Saturdays , in Mashhad the consulate is only open Mondays to Fridays .
Yes you can . Although the right answer is very dependent on your personal interests , here are a few pointers to get you started : Do a <URL> . They work for tips , so it 's not really free , but it 's an easy and friendly way to get to know a bit of the city . Spend time at <URL> . There are several decent museums in the park , and it 's a great place to relax and watch the world go by . Spend an afternoon or evening exploring <URL> , a lovely suburb full of restaurants and bars .
end question
start question
Is the voltage 220-240 V at 50 Hz * everywhere * in Europe ?
No exceptions . Wikipedia has a colourful map of <URL> . <URL>
Unfortunately , the solutions to this seem quite limited . <URL> will provide you with 50MB of data per day $ 27.50 for the first day and $ 3.50 per day afterwards . Alternatively , you can receive 1GB for $ 65 and $ 45 per GB ( or part thereof ! ) over 30 days . Not very flexible at all . Various countries have <URL> - but it works quite well across Europe . Unfortunately , you also have to pay expensive shipping costs for receiving and returning a <URL> . In Australia , it would cost me $ 68 just in shipping costs . Another option seems to be to obtain a pre-paid SIM in Europe and add a booster . <URL> has boosters that cost between # 1 for 3MB for a day , or # 5 for 20MB over a week , or # 10 for 50MB over 30 days . You may need to pay for some normal credit as well . You may also want to add a <URL> for normal calls .
Seat 61 is the absolute definitive guide for international rail travel . It has all the information you need about routes , prices , and schedule . It also has plenty of links to the places where you can price up and buy tickets , and where to buy them if you ca n't buy them online . <URL> If you have more specific questions you can ask them here obviously .
According to Wikipedia , the <URL> provides water for WDW , and they do not add fluoride , but there is roughly <URL> of fluoride found in the water . There are also reports that the water at WDW <URL> , so you may want to consider bottled water aside from the issue of fluoride . As a general rule , when traveling , if you are concerned about fluoride , I suggest using a trusted source of bottled water . Also , unless you or your family suffer from severe fluoride allergies , drinking fluoridated water for a couple days probably wo n't hurt that much . Even so , I understand the desire to avoid it .
The person calling you will be calling your Australian number , so they will be charged whatever they normally pay for a call to Australia . As you are roaming , you will be charged for receiving the call at whatever your roaming rate is . In most cases , the call itself will actually route via Australia and back to wherever you are ! It 's possible that if your phone is roaming onto the same network as the person that 's calling you is on that the call will route locally , but there 's no guarantee . The reverse case is very different . If you call a number in the country that you are in then you will normally pay a lower rate to make the call than it costs for you to receive a call , and the person you call will only pay their standard rate for an incoming call ( which is free is many/most countries ) . Obviously the exact costs will depend upon your provider and what they charge for calls whilst roaming , but in most cases it 'll be cheaper for you to call someone in-country than for them to call you . Depending on how long you 're going to be there , the best option is often to buy a pre-paid SIM in the country your visiting . You 'll get a local country number that people can call you on , and you wo n't pay high roaming costs for calls that you make .
It is absolutely legal to shoot at a range as long as you either shoot their guns or bring your own legal firearm to the range provided your weapon meet range 's restrictions . For example : <URL> will rent you a firearm , similar is available from <URL> . Normally the only thing that you need to have with you is a valid photo ID . You can probably use <URL> to limit the list of shooting ranges .
<URL> , reportedly the largest in Europe , that was formerly the headquarter of Nixdorf Computer Corporation . It 's official website is <URL> .
Are there any statistics showing the likelihood of mainland Europeans crashing in the UK ? ( my emphasis ) No , not that I can easily find , Rural Scotland The Scottish government publish the following : Tourist activity does significantly boost road accident numbers in the rural tourist areas of Scotland and visitor drivers , including foreign drivers , are involved in a measurably greater number of accidents in the case study areas . Half of the drivers involved in accidents in Scotland were within 5km of their home address and fewer than 2 % were more than 240 km from it . However in the police areas of Grampian , which includes Aberdeenshire and Northern which contains Highland , fewer of the accidents involved drivers who were close to their homes . The involvement of tourists compared with locals in road accidents is probably not excessive in relation to their numbers and the increased mileage they probably drive . The exposure data for foreign drivers is not adequate to establish whether they are at greater risk of an accident than local drivers . The majority of accidents caused by foreign drivers arose from the drivers ' unfamiliarity with driving on the left hand side of the road . The accidents caused by UK visitor drivers may reflect their lack of driving and overtaking experience on rural single carriageway roads , since the crashes in which they were judged to be at fault involved losing control , the negotiation of bends and collision with pedestrians or animals . Local drivers who had caused an accident were most likely to have lost control or to have been driving too fast . <URL> Note the second point there . It may be important to distinguish between " tourists " , " foreign drivers " and " UK visitor drivers " - It is n't immediately obvious if the authors include Welsh , English and Northern Irish tourists in " foreign drivers " . The fourth bullet point suggests not . It is also worth noting that driving on rural roads in Scotland is very different from driving through London in the rush hour . The report draws this useful conclusion : The data revealed that foreign drivers appear to have difficulty remembering which side of the carriageway to drive on . This may occur when no other traffic is around or when they come to the end of a single track road and rejoin a two lane single carriageway , or at view points and resting places So , drill yourself to pay extra attention in those situations :-) UK in general There are some other UK statistics that might be used to produce some measure of the additional risk - if other data could also be found . For foreign truck-drivers , the accident rates on motorways are eight times higher . A third of accidents involving foreign lorries happen on motorways -- nearly eight times higher than the national average rate for the UK 's 70 mph highways -- with experts blaming drivers unfamiliar with UK highways , driving on the ' opposite ' side of the road and often blind-sided . <URL> For foreign drivers in general , there were 18,865 accidents in the UK in 2006 giving rise to insurance claims . Insurance claims involving foreign EU drivers in the UK have grown every year from 2001 to 2006 according to data from the Motor Insurers Bureau ( MIB ) . Since 2001 , collisions involving EU drivers have risen by 61.4 % from 11,685 to 18,865 . <URL> Unfortunately these figures are insufficient to work out the increased likelihood of foreign drivers having an accident in the UK - I think I would need to find numbers of drivers ( and/or road-miles traveled ) for each group )
But as I remember all laptop charger is universal , so I guess I do n't need a voltage converter ? It should be printed on the charger - if it says something like " 100-230V " , you 're fine . Usually this is the case for stuff that people are likely to travel with , such as laptops . And I wonder does those hotel normally will have some power plug or converter that for traveller ? Hotels sometimes have sockets that admit multiple different plugs . If so , the US/Canadian plug will always be included . But such sockets are not always present , and often only in the bathroom , which is not a good place for a computer . Or I have to buy one in Toronto Canada ? I would recommend this to be on the safe side . Plug adapters are cheap , should n't cost more than $ 5
Well the largest swing in the world is the <URL> in Queenstown , New Zealand . The stats : Swing Stats : The World 's Biggest Swing 300metre Arc 120m rope length ( That 's longer than a rugby field ! ) 160m above the river Swing options : Forwards , Backwards , Tandem , truck 'n trailer , 69 , back2back , Honeymoon &amp; much more . Release options : Leave it up to the Ops Crew , let your mates take charge and use the remote or release yourself ! So if that does n't meet your requirements , then you 're probably going to have to rely on once-off custom swings like the one you mentioned .
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
It depends . I backpacked in Europe during summer and during my journey I was not willing to expend too much with hostels . Sometimes I arrived into cities without having a booking and could not find beds in cheap hostels . Since I did n't want to go for the hostels that were more expensive , after some talking , some of the cheap hostels allowed me to sleep in the floor using my sleeping bag for half of the price . I also met some travelers that used the sleeping bag to sleep in train stations . In fact , I also did it once but just because I wanted to have the experience ( I could have got a cheap bed in a hostel if I wanted to , there was no need to sleep in the station ) . So , If you are willing to travel without making booking in advance and also do n't want to expend to much money , you should definitely take a sleeping bag with you . Otherwise I recommend you to take it only if you want to use it as a sheet in the hostels since most of them do n't provide one .
I work in Reading and regularly cycle in the area and also use the station . I can tell you that no such provision exists for secure bicycle storage . The station is a known hotspot for cycle theft so I would not risk leaving a decent bike there . But ... if your bike is n't particularly expensive and does n't stand out you 'll probably be OK . Just remember to follow <URL> .
Heineken Bar at Incheon Airport The <URL> , one in the East and one in the West side of the duty free area , both next to gate 4F . I do n't know if they have draught beer , but the name looks promising . Below is a screenshot from the linked site : <URL> The Jet Lagged Lizard at Incheon A couple hundred metres outside of the airport , in Incheon , you can also find the <URL> - a full blown pub with draught beer , food and all the rest . This solutions looks perfect , provided you are willing to leave the airport terminal . <URL>
There are trains to Schiphol every hour through the night , it 's the Heerlen end of the trip that make it difficult . So you could first go to Utrecht , sleep there and catch a train in the morning . Or go all the way to Leiden or Amsterdam by train on Saturday afternoon and take a train , bus or taxi on Sunday morning . Depending on the type of accommodation/level of comfort , it should be possible to find cheaper ho ( s ) tel or B&amp;B in those cities than at the airport . You would also have more time to sleep in the morning than if you were to take your own car or a long-distance train during the night .
The cheapest option to get to the city is to take an MTA bus directly from the airport . You can transfer for free to one other bus line or , if you use a prepaid MetroCard " gold " , to the subway . The fare is currently $ 2.75 , but depending on which MetroCard you buy , you may spend slightly less . JFK is served by five MTA bus lines , all of which have a free transfer to at least one subway line . Three of the five stop at terminal 5 : the Q3 , the Q10 , and the B15 . The others do not stop at any passenger terminal . You 'll most likely land at the wrong terminal , so you 'll have to take the AirTrain to the bus stop , but this is free of charge . Plan on at least an extra hour for this trip , compared to taking the AirTrain to Jamaica or Howard Beach . I think most people 's time is worth more that $ 5 an hour , but maybe you have additional factors to consider . See <URL> for the Queens bus map .
You have four options , although you may need to wait for a couple of them ... <URL> houses permanent and temporary exhibits relating to sport and the Olympic movement . However it 's closed for renovations until the end of next year . <URL> in Hakon 's Hall in Lillehammer , was officially opened by King Harald V and Queen Sonja on November 27 , 1997 . It is the only museum in northern Europe that presents the entire history of the Olympic Games . <URL> used to be just a Sports Museum , but was moved to a new building in 2004 during the Olympic Games year in Athens , and was redesignated as the Olympic Museum . In 2014 , <URL> . Interactive exhibits will gather together London 2012 memories , show how the venues were built , and seek to inspire future generations .
There are a lot of options . It really depends on your preference , but my list of cities you can always visit no matter what season : Amsterdam ( the Netherlands ) Maastricht ( the Netherlands ) Delft ( the Netherlands ) Brugge ( Bruges ) ( Belgium ) Monschau ( Germany ) Edinburgh ( UK ) Grenada ( Spain ) Barcelona ( Spain ) Funchal ( Portugal )
First off , it 's never going to be ' cheap ' , unfortunately . There are a few reasons for this . ( * these prices correct as of November 2010 ) The Base If you fly , there 's no way around the fixed fare of USD$ 420 to fly return from Quito or Guayaquil . Then there 's the $ 100 National Park entrance fee . And another $ 10 for taxes . So we 'll ignore all that and just call that the ' base ' , and focus on the rest being cheaper ... A lot seem to focus on the cruise you 'll " need " to do . That 's not always the case . From <URL> : The airport beside Santa Cruz is on a small nearby island in the north side called Baltera , and from here you must get a 50 cent ferry across , then a $ 3 bus down south to the town . Once in town , it 's very easy to set yourself up with a $ 20 private hotel room with A/C and TV , and even Wifi ! Even out here in the middle of the Pacific ocean you remain connected to your Facebook Wall posts ! ( or GlobeNotes obviously ! ) The volcanic island of Isabella is about 2 hours by boat from Santa Cruz , and boats leave daily for only $ 25-30 . Bear in mind that boats only leave Santa Cruz at 2pm , and then leave Isabella only at 6am , so an overnight is required . Many people have told me that , with these two islands ( Isabella alone being 52 % of the total Galapagos landmass ) you can actually see MOST of the wildlife that you see on the far off islands that require cruises , the main exception being red-footed boobies and a few other bird species which are only found on the remote islands . Giant-Tortoise , Sea lions , Penguins , and TONS of Iguana . You name it . . you can see them all within about 15 min boat ride from the coast of either Isabella or Santa Cruz . Score ! It 's worth noting that according to <URL> : If you are planning to visit the Galapagos Islands , Guayaquil is the cheapest place to take a flight from . There are three air carriers that will take you across the Galapagos Islands as well as the Ecuadorean mainland , LAN-ECUADOR <URL> , Aerogal <URL> and TAME [ 5 ] have non stop daily flights , departing from Guayaquil is cheaper than leaving from Quito ( Is closer and most of the Quito flights do make an stop at Guayaquil 's airport for Refueling and picking up passengers . International departure airport tax was just recently increased in Guayaquil and is exactly $ 29.75 ( January 2010 ) . About 15 $ cheaper than Quito airport . Now , once you 're in Quito or Guayaquil , there are two sides to consider with tours . One - the travel agents will often claim the best tours are gone months in advance . Certainly some will be , but I 've NEVER hard of a person disappointed with their tour , no matter when they booked it . However , I have heard of some FANTASTIC deals bought on the ground in Quito . When staying at the <URL> in Quito , the <URL> downstairs was very closely linked with the hostel , offering free city tours and salsa lessons and the like . In addition , they were able to advise people about Galapagos options . I heard of people getting final berths on 5-star boats for the equivalent of paying 2 days for 7 , others getting discounted meals , and they were all booked in Quito or Guayaquil . So in conclusion , it 's hard to say for certain whether things are cheaper on the ground , but from anecdotal opinions , my experience , and the very reason tour companies exist in these cities , is that it is possible to beat prices when on the ground . And of course , this will flex with seasonal trends - more likely to get bargains in low season .
Based on the way that rate is presented on the website you pointed us to , I would say that it is simply a discounted rate , that is called an " Innkeepers Rate " ie a special deal offered the Innkeeper himself/herself . Hotels can get quite creative with their discount program names trying to build the perceived value . Most professional rates , such as the innkeeper rate mentioned in the link in Spehro 's post , are not posted on websites , rather they are only revealed to qualified patrons . Many hotels offer special rates to different professional groups : travel agents , airline employees , corporate employees with special contract rates , etc but these rates are never revealed to the general public .
end question
start question
How long can you wait/hang out at the Oakland airport lobby ?
According to the <URL> : May I remain overnight in the terminals ? Connecting passengers with an overnight layover may remain overnight in the terminals pre-security only . Since we are open 24 hours a day , 7 days a week , law enforcement officers are always on site and you may be asked to show your identification and proof of travel . If you decide to you want a little more comfort than an airport can provide , and want to stay in a near-by hotel rather than remaining in the terminals , Oakland International Airport suggests you stay at one that has a complimentary airport shuttle available in the early morning hours . The closest hotels are on either Airport Access Road or Hegenberger Road , or read " Airport Area " . You may find the list of area hotels on our website at : <URL>
The Health Assist Blog outlines ( quite comprehensively ) the fast food of various countries globally . Part 1 illustrates fast food that can be obtained in the following european countries : Denmark The Netherlands Austria Belgium Finland Poland Sweden Germany United Kingdom <URL> Part II illustrates Asian &amp; Australian fast foods : Australia China India Indonesia Japan Korea <URL> Part III illustrates South , Central American &amp; Mexican fast foods : Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Bolivia Costa Rica Panama Peru Venezuela Mexico <URL> Edit If you are in London ( UK ) this weekend 28th - 29th September 2013 you will be able to taste a variant of fast food because a festival of european street food , with food stalls from all over Europe will be hitting East London 's Dalston Yard . So you can go around sampling different european tasties , and ask the people of those countries selling them how typical or perhaps non typical they are of the that particular country ! If you want to sample some the finest that Europe has to offer , more information on this event can be seen : <URL> .
Yes , you can - the pending H1-B application does not impact your ability to use the VWP program at all . As with anyone using VWP you will need to obtain an ESTA in advance of your trip . The only real complication is that you can not change from VWP to H1-B status whilst in the US . ie , if/when your H1-B is approved , you will need to leave the US to obtain your visa and then re-enter the US using that visa to get your H1-B status .
Cairo airport , along with every site in Egypt remotely connected to tourism , has ridiculous amounts of security , so you are in absolutely no physical danger . If you wait until morning , all that 's going to happen is that you 'll be stuck in a traffic jam on your way to the city ! What 's more , since the revolution , Cairo 's rather notorious unmetered taxis are no longer allowed at the airport . If you ignore touts , pick a cab off the rank and insist on the meter , you should be perfectly fine . ( Well , aside from the abysmal standards of Egyptian driving , but that 's another story . I still remember driving to the airport one night past the wreck of a BMW that had literally wrapped itself around a lamppost . ) All that said , if somebody is arranging a transfer for you , it 's presumably not going to be an ordinary taxi , but somebody known to whoever is sending them . So get them to stand outside Customs holding a placard with your name on it , and get their phone number as a backup in case you ca n't find them . ( Mild disclaimer : I have n't been back to Cairo since they opened the new terminal , but it was n't a particularly hard airport to deal with even before . )
I have no experience with this particular scenario and ca n't tell you exactly how this particular Spanish consulate will treat your application but in theory it should not be an issue . As far as the regulations are concerned , you should have a legitimate purpose and the financial means to pay for your accommodation , nothing more . There is absolutely no obligation to have each and every night accounted for and technically , you do n't even need any specific booking or reservation , although it can be useful to support your application . Your other question suggests you applied for a visa for a longer , more complex trip . If you do get a multiple-entry or two-entry visas from October 1st to the end of your trip to Greece , it would also allow you to enter on the 11th so the whole issue is moot ( there is no such thing as a visa valid for one entry on the 1st and one entry on the 12th , it 's either a single-entry visa or two entries at any time during the period of validity ) . Since you are , as far as I can tell , a UK resident with a good profile , my guess is that you will get a multiple-entry with enough flexibility not to worry about this . But even if you do n't , you would still have the option of shortening the trip at the other end ( returning to the UK one day earlier to avoid going over the maximum stay limit ) .
According to Amtrak at 800-USA-RAIL , you may check your baggage in as soon as the baggage department opens at the station . It 's 7:15 AM at my station . Perfect for my 10PM departure .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
There 's no single answer to this , as different hotels have different policies . In general most hotels will be happy to store mail and small packages for you for a short time . Most will ask that you mark that fact you 're a guest as a part of the address , and I 've had at least 2 hotels that requested that my arrival date also be listed as a part of the address . Some hotels will charge you a fee for this service , especially if what you 're receiving is anything more than just a standard letter . Normally the item will be held for you at the front desk/concierge ( often with a note on your booking so that they know it 's there when you check-in ) , although at some hotels they will store it in the " Business Center " which can cause issues if you 're planning to arrive outside of the business centers hours . The best plan is to either email or call the hotel in advance to confirm their local policies - I 've never had a hotel not respond to such an email with the relevant details , plus you end up with a record of what they told you in case there 's any problems later on ( such as one hotel where I was told there was no charge , but then they tried to charge me when I got there ! )
After emailing the address mentioned by Peter Hahndorf <URL> ( salonvip@eaai.com.ni ) , I learned the following from " VIP Shift Managers " on duty who answered the emails : The VIP lounge service costs US$ 34.50 for adults and US$ 11.50 for children under 12 years old . Payment is made as you enter the lounge on the day of travel . The staff in the VIP lounge will take care of the immigration , customs , and airline baggage check procedures . Guests receive a plate of sandwiches , two complementary drinks , Internet access , and cable TV . Departing guests can wait in the VIP lounge until the boarding process begins . VIP service can be provided for departing or arriving travelers . For arriving travelers , VIP staff will meet you in the jetway with a sign with your name on it . Reservations need to be made ( I assume via the email address ) with sufficient time for the staff to be able to prepare to receive you and should include the flight date , airline , and flight number . Arriving travelers using the service fill out the immigration and customs forms as usual on the plane . The VIP staff will turn the forms in to the appropriate place , and if by chance duties are owed they will come to the lounge and let you know . In that case , you can go down and pay them personally , or you can give them the money and they will pay and return with the receipt . They will retrieve your luggage from the baggage carousel and when all the details are finished , they will return to the lounge , return your passport , and let you know everything is ready . For departing travelers , VIP staff will take care of baggage check-in using the first class line , so it is n't necessary for the traveler to wait in the standard line . However , they still recommend getting to the airport sufficiently early to accommodate any unexpected delays .
Midway is very walkable , though there 's a good bit of traffic so the surrounding areas are n't the nicest place to walk , but there are exits and sidewalks . You might exit directly from the terminal onto Cicero , but there are few options where you could both wait comfortably in case of rain or snow or where a car could safely stop out of traffic . A good option is to follow the signs to the CTA Station " Trains to City / Trains to Loop " ( straight ahead as you exit the terminal , do n't forget to go downstairs right after you exit the secure area to get your check luggage , if any ) . At the Midway CTA station you can exit to the bus boarding area , you can cross it to <URL> that does n't have controlled access . This location is just down the street from the Chill With Us Yogurt Cafe but saves you having to cross the road .
I had to do something slightly similar once with some half-empty suitcases that would have large heavy things piled on top of them while moving house . What worked quite well for me was to take large , sturdy , readily available bag-like things such as : Heavy duty bin bags Duvet covers , large pillow cases Sleeping bag liners ... open them out to get a lot of air into them , then firmly tie them shut , trapping air making them act like flexible-shaped cushions . Because these bags are n't completely full , they can be manoeuvred to fill whatever shaped space is needed quite well , and there 's less risk of popping than , say , balloons ( the " bang " of popping balloons coming from inside a bag when a heavy bag is put on top of yours might concern a baggage handler ... ) . Things like bin bags are also very useful for compartmentalising your packing on the way back , so they 're not being wasted .
What you 're looking for is the Airport Express Train ( Flytoget ) . It 's about 20 minutes ride from the airport to the Oslo Central station . No need to book a ticket in advance , there 's always seats available . For timetable , check out <URL> . As for the ticket , you have two options . You can either buy your ticket from a vending machine that 's located in the baggage claim area ( somewhere near the exit/customs ) , or you can just swipe your credit card ( and select destination ) at the card readers that are located right before the escalators that take you to the platform . The card readers will not print a receipt/ticket . If you need a receipt , you have to register at the Flytoget site , and add your credit card info . You do n't need to do this before you use your credit card . Once you register and add you card info , you 'll see all the trips that were paid with your card , and you 'll be able to print receipts .
You only need to wait at most 90 full days to avoid falling foul of <URL> ( Whether you need to stay 90 days out of the Schengen area or less depends on how your previous stay was divided , if it was one block of 150 days , then you do need to wait exactly 90 days after the day you left the Schengen area . ) The reason cited to deny you entry is not based on the overstay but merely on the fact that it 's not possible for you to reenter without violating these rules . Thus , you would also need to wait 90 days or risk being denied entry for the same motive ( " ˝has already stayed 90 days in the preceding 180 day period " ) even if you left on the 90th day of your previous stay and had n't overstayed at all . After that , you could still be refused entry of course , but it would be for another motive , there is nothing special about these 150 days . On the other hand , waiting even longer could be prudent as border guards in other countries might be more suspicious of your intentions if you repeatedly try to enter the Schengen area for long periods of time .
The visas used to be 15 $ or 20 $ , and paying in Turkish liras was not an option . There was an ATM right next to the visa booth . However , as of the 10th of April this year , visas are now applied - and paid for online at <URL> . EU citizens can get the visa at electronic booths in the airport , but getting it online prior to arrival is cheaper .
You 'd have to verify this , but Las Vegas could be an option . However , the question is whether your country of residence accepts this marriage ; contacting the US consulate of your home country might be a good idea ; they would also be able to tell you what you 'd have to do to validate your marriage before you leave the US .
Some rules explained here ( in French ) : <URL> And a version in English : <URL> It depends on which fare you have paid when booking your ticket . TGV are in the category Trains à réservation obligatoire , that 's why there 's a car/seat number . Concerning your experience , either you had a Tarif Pro ticket , either you were lucky . Because with all other tickets , you either can not use it in another train ( Prem 's ) or have a fee to pay to change train .
Sesame Street is currently filmed at the <URL> in Queens , which does not offer public tours ( though the <URL> is open to the public and located on the campus ) . According to the <URL> , Sesame Street is not filmed in front of a live studio audience and the set is not able to accommodate guests . There is a Sesame Street theme park called <URL> in Langhorne , Pennsylvania , about midway between Philadelphia and New York ( near Trenton , New Jersey ) , owned and operated by Sea World . Now , that is only for the original American version of Sesame Street . There are many different versions internationally , and some of those filming locations may allow visitors .
I have this problem . I recently visited for the first time the Eurozone , then the UK . I find the coins in the UK to be especially annoying/confusing . But after a couple weeks of frustration , I just took a moment , when I was away from a cashier , not buying anything , and studied the various coins for about 5 minutes . Since then I 'm able to pay without trouble . So I think the key is simply to make a conscious effort , ideally when you are n't holding up a transaction . There have also been times when I 've just offered a pile of coins to a cashier and said " Would you do the honor ? " They usually smile and oblige . I think most cashiers , especially in tourist places , are accustomed to foreigners who have not learned the local currency .
The <URL> mentions two interesting bits of information . First thing is , of course , that you should inform your airline of all particular needs you might have , for them to make the necessary arrangements . Secondly , according to the afore-mentioned website , airline staff is approachable in both Domestic and International terminals : Wheelchairs Travelers requiring wheelchair assistance are encouraged to advise their airline of their needs when making flight arrangements . Upon arriving at the airport , travelers with wheelchair or other special requests should approach an airline representative for assistance . At Domestic Terminals 1 , 2 , and 3 , airline staff can be approached at curbside and check-in areas . At the International Terminal , please proceed to your airline 's assigned counter or dial 1-6210 from specially marked phones at all terminal entry doors . Arrangements for assistance to and from other locations at SFO can be made with your airline . Moreover , <URL> also mentions security checks with dedicated lanes for disabled passengers , and their family/helper : Getting Through Security As part of the Transportation Security Administration 's ( TSA ) Diamond Self-Select program , dedicated lanes that allow families , individuals unfamiliar with air travel and travelers with special needs to go through security at their own pace are available at all SFO security checkpoints . Please visit the <URL> website to learn more about screening for travelers with disabilities and medical conditions .
And we introduce Mark 's patent-pending method to surviving the hell that is NZ to London superhaul economy class travel : Prepare your entertainment . Sure , you will likely have movies on the plane . But I 've done several 10-13 hour trips with broken screens or no entertainment system - SINCE 2010 . Do n't bet on having it . Charge laptop batteries , iPads , iPods , Kindles , get a new book from the library or whatever keeps you happy . Clothing . It can get cold on a flight . Surprisingly cold . I layer it up - my trick is to always wear my jacket over my top going through security - it means I can just put wallet etc in my zip-up pockets , and simply remove my jacket in security , meaning no having to constantly remove stuff for the xray , especially in the multiple stopovers . Once onboard , I remove it and keep it under the chair in front of me ( I 'm not that tall ) or put it in the overhead compartment . BOOK your seat beforehand , if at all possible . It 's getting harder these days to secure the emergency exit row , but if possible , GET IT . Even if you ca n't , when you get to the airport , ask as nicely and politely as you can to every new staff member you see - at the checkin counter , at the gate , and finally on the plane . All three have worked for me at different times . As a failsafe , book it online beforehand if at all possible , and use <URL> to decide the best seat for your flight . I prefer at the back , it 's slightly bumpier , but away from screaming kids - they tend to locate them close to the bulkhead . Finally , in your decision , realise that if you 're flying over the ocean - there is NOTHING to see - so why have a window seat ? Get an aisle , it means you can get up an walk around any time you want . Just not the very back row - sometimes the seats do n't recline all the way , and you get a queue next to you waiting for the bathroom . Personally , I ca n't sleep on planes . I 've accepted this , and plan accordingly . I dislike sleeping tablets and the side effects , so I sleep well the night before ( or try to ) and then just accept I 'll be stuffed after the flight . However , from all the experience I 've had from others telling me , the eyemasks do wonders , those neck pillows that make you look like such the beginner traveller actually apparently are quite nice , and again , the seat makes a difference - it 's much harder in the middle of three seats to get any sleep . Aisle also means you can put your feet out a bit further , but beware of tramplers . Exit row mitigates this problem - more leg room than you 'll ever need ! Food and drink - never drink alcohol on a superhaul flight . Sure , it 's nice but you 're losing so much body water anyway due to the dry atmosphere that you need all the water you can drink . Ditch the alcohol and go for juice or water instead , and make use of the drinking fountains next to the bathroom/bulkhead - surprising how few people know about them . You 'll feel better during the flight , and look and feel fresher when you land . Drugs - sleeping tablets - some friends swear by them , as well as people like my brother claiming that the anti-jetlag pills completely freed him from the effects . I 'm dubious about the latter , not enough evidence for that yet , but the sleeping ones bother me - some chemically replicate the sleep state - ie , mind asleep , and body ' paralysed ' during that time , and have heard some terrifying stories about <URL> - something terrifying enough in the comfort of your own home , and not something I 'd want to experience at 36,000 ft ! I 'm not sure about the food losing its taste - could just be that airline food is pretty rubbish anyway ;) but perhaps it 's the lack of hydration as well , so water with the food may help . I do n't think anyone ever ' enjoys ' a 29 hour flight ( well of 3 flights ) from one side of the world to the other , but you can at least lessen the pain by enjoying some movies , attempting to sleep , and all else failing , make friends with the person next to you ;)
end question
start question
Is there any list of countries I should not visit if I want to go to the US ?
There is no list published by the US government as mentioned in other answers , but I know people who were refused US visas in different US embassies/consulates because they have visited one or more of these countries : Iran Syria Pakistan Sudan Bahrain The list could be longer , and visiting one of these countries does n't mean you will be refused ; but , it matters , because they have a field in the visa application about the countries visited in the past 10 years . The guys I know were asked questions such as " what 's the purpose of visiting " . The rejection/approval totally depends on the interviewer and/or your answer . I have noticed the younger you are the higher chance of getting refused , if you visited one of these countries . I guess they believe the younger you are the easier your brain to be washed with anti-US stuff . Also I have noticed people who go to the US on regular basis they do not get refused ! Usually these people have family ties . The last thing I have noticed is people who are from those other countries might have better chances of getting the visas while people who visited those countries might not get it ! I also think the same logic applies for people who need electronic visas , where no interview is required , except from the customs guys upon arrival . Anyway , as long as you already obtained the visa , then the chances of being asked again at the immigration/customs are low . BTW , I work for a multinational company , many of the employees are required to have a US visa for business trips ( hundreds ) and that 's my source . Also , I have been to all countries in the aforementioned list and I was asked the reason behind my visits but I always was granted the visa .
Kayak makes this easy to do with its " Overnight flights " check box . On a sample date ( May 13 ) , your nonstop options are : British Airways 178 : JFK 8:00 a - LHR 7:40 p Virgin Atlantic 18 : EWR 8:00 a - LHR 8:00 p United 18 : EWR 9:00 a - LHR 9:20 p American 142 : JFK 9:30 a - LHR 9:30 p If you are willing to make a connection , you could also take advantage of : United 922 : IAD 9:29 a - LHR 9:55 p American 90 : ORD 9:00 a - LHR 10:45 p
Unfortunately , there is no way to definitively answer this question . Visa outcomes depend from embassy-to-embassy and case-to-case . From what you are describing , it appears the mistake was made by the German embassy rather than by you - although you should have taken the prerogative to check a visa of the correct length had been issued , but there 's not much you can do about that now . I would suggest that you apply for an Estonian Schengen visa and when you 're called for an interview , take documentation along with you to prove your student status in Germany , copies for the application form of your old visa , et al and explain your situation to the visa officer who interviews you . And then hope for the best .
The crucial point here is to fit 4-5 people , and their luggage , in a car comfortable enough when driving for long stretches . To this purpose any comfortable station wagon , or even a people carrier if you can manage operating it in narrow driving scenarios such as parking in city centres , will do . To help you choose , car renting websites often specify the comfort of a car in terms of the number of people and luggage they can fit . Regarding weather conditions keep in mind that local regulations might require you to fit your car with winter equipment - tyres or snow chains - which is mandatory during the months you will be travelling . <URL> , for example . There are a number of questions ( see <URL> for example ) on TSE detailing this , have a nice read .
When I did my research a few years ago I read that the biggest likelihood of seeing gorillas is in Uganda , I have n't tried it myself though . I was traveling around other parts of Uganda and it felt reasonably safe - we were using public transport and cheap accommodation . It was a few years ago though , you should check the current situation ( usually foreign ministries have travel advice service - e.g. from <URL> ) .
No you do n't . You can transfer to other terminals and exit there . However , you must be travelling with hand luggage only , otherwise you will have to return to the original terminal land-side to collect your luggage , which would be difficult as you would need to get past customs to collect it . Here 's an <URL> on flytalk . One of the quirks of the airside transfer buses and the flight connection areas in each terminal is that you can arrive on an INT flight at T5 but cross the UK border at another terminal . In fact you can also do this in reverse , so arrive on an INT at T3 for example , and cross the UK border at T5 . Whilst this is not really recommended normally , you may wish to do this if you have your car or left luggage at another terminal or you find the UK border at the terminal you arrive at to be very busy .
Here 's my own answer : It 's OK to ride a bicycle on any road in Switzerland except an Autobahn/Autostrasse . These are easy to recognize ( for Americans ) because they 're akin to interstate highways in the U.S. : Limited access points , multiple lanes each direction , and high speeds . You 're not that likely to accidentally enter one on a bicycle . You can also recognize them by this sign : Given that the road 12 I was asking about was only single-lane each way , had low speed limits , and had numerous businesses and houses with street-front access , it was pretty clearly not an Autobahn or Autostrasse . As best I can tell , the road I rode on was the " old " highway 12 between Bern and Fribourg before the Autobahn/Autostrasse was built and also given a designation of 12 . We do that kind of thing here the U.S. as well , but we usually remove the designation from the old road .
There is actually a monument called ' <URL> ' ( Middle of the World ) in Ecuador . However they claim this is based on being on the equator ( it turned out later they were off by 240 meters when choosing the spot ) . Why the place is more special ( middle , centered ) than any other place on the equator I do n't know . It is a bit of a cheesy place but makes a fun day trip from Quito .
Japan is an extremely safe and largely cash-based society . As I remember , if you use a cash machine the smallest amount you can withdrawal is the equivalent of 200 USD . Also , there is virtually no crime . So it is quite normal to walk around with a lot of money in cash . Second , it is no problem to pay for a small thing with a giant bill . In some countries if you pull out a # 50 note or a 100 USD bill to pay for a magazine , there is no end of scrutiny , as though you are doing the cashier a personal slight . In Japan , it 's perfectly fine , except at some vending machines . So make sure you get large bills when you change your currency -- to reduce the physical bulk in your wallet ! Personally , I would not leave this kind of money unattended in a hostel . That is simply asking for trouble . There will be no disadvantage in keeping it with you , except I suppose the possibility of losing it . If you do keep it on your person , use the typical precaution of breaking it into bundles and keeping most of it somewhere else on your person or in your bags where it wo n't be discovered every time you pay for something . All of this said , even though Japan is largely cash-based , I think it is more sensible to arrange with your bank a card with a 0 % forex rate , pay with card when you can and make cash withdrawals as you need them .
No , you will not need to pay any additional fees . Any applicable airport tax will be included in your ticket and is irrelevant to whether you spend the entire 6 hours inside Schiphol 's security zone or if you use some of it to venture outside the airport . It is entirely at your discretion how you spend that time . Just make sure you are back in time to pass through security in time to catch your flight .
I figured Wikipedia has nice tables of all lines ( regional , national , international ) serving each of the major Paris stations . It does not render as nice as a map but they are all there : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
It would appear there is no official list rather an <URL> to check with the country you are traveling to . I suggest you ask separate questions for the countries you intend on visiting .
The exact limitations of the eVisitor ( subclass 651 ) visa are listed in the " <URL> " act : 651.611 Conditions 8115 , 8201 , 8527 and 8528 must be imposed . The description of these conditions is spelled out in the <URL> section : 8115 The holder must not work in Australia other than by engaging in a business visitor activity . 8201 ( 1 ) While in Australia , the holder must not engage , for more than 3 months , in any studies or training . 8527 The holder must be free from tuberculosis at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . 8528 The holder must not have one or more criminal convictions , for which the sentence or sentences ( whether served or not ) are for a total period of 12 months duration or more , at the time of travel to , and entry into , Australia . Therefore you are free to study in Australia under the eVisitor visa , as long as you do n't do it for more than 3 months .
You can only pass through customs ( or immigration ) through designated ports of entry . This means that unless you have a special pass ( for example , ship crews have special passes ) , you need to go through the customs and immigration process . This is a burden on you as the traveler . It does not matter where you start the journey . Your status in the destination country/territory will depend on your current nationality . For example , if you are allowed to legally reside and visit a country without a visa , you will not be an illegal alien ( to prove this though , you 'll have to provide documentation - like a passport ) . However , there will still be issues with your departure as your arrival was not legal or documented . If questioned by police you will most likely be detained and deported for illegally entering the country . As for goods ( customs ) , it is more restrictive as each country has their own rules on what goods are allowed entry customs free , which goods need to be declared and which goods are forbidden . In either way the burden is on you to make sure your travel is legal and authorized even if you do n't need a visa to travel to the country ; or your port/manner of entry was not through the normal channels .
Rent the car ! Los Angeles is built for cars . It has some of the worst public transportation imaginable , ever since <URL> . Yes , there are busses and taxis , but you will find that busses take forever ( and get stuck in the same traffic ) , and taxis are hard to find and expensive . Only <URL> ( compared to , say , New York with <URL> ) . There are plenty of cities where public transportation is an option ( New York , Chicago , San Francisco ) , but LA is not one of them . UPDATE 2015 Since I wrote this answer , the rise of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft has , for the first time , made it more reasonable to get around in Los Angeles without your own car . You may want to compare the cost of ride-sharing services vs. renting a car ( and paying for parking ) depending on how much you want get around . If you are going to a lot of different parts of the city , a rental car is likely to be cheaper , but if you 're staying mostly in one neighborhood and not moving around a lot , you may find ride-sharing services to be more affordable .
Avoid the use of the word " fanny " , as it is slang for , ah , a woman 's front bits . Be very careful when referring to your fanny pack ! Also , if an attractive member of the opposite sex asks you if you have a " rubber " , double-check to make sure there are n't any chalkboards around because you 're probably being asked for an eraser .
There is a document that allows you to enter the US whenever you want ( contingent on inspection and admission by a US border agent each time ) ... and it 's the US visa . Some can be valid for as long as 10 years and allow you to enter the country many times . Under US law , length of stay is an entirely separate issue . Unlike what you seem to believe , you would not typically get a " 90-day visa " . The visa can have much shorter or much longer validity than the time you will be allowed to stay in the US . However , you can not easily get a document that would allow you to stay " however long you want " . That determination will be made at the border but if you do more than one or two long trips in a row , you are going to raise suspicion that you are actually living in the US . For repetitive multi-month stays , I think you would need to seek an immigrant visa and resident status . Same thing if you cross the border many times and end up staying in North America for a long time . For those of you that do n't need a visa for short visits ( e.g. citizens from visa-waiver countries ) , renewing the ESTA every two years is the least of your problem . It 's relatively cheap and easy . It 's not being denied entry if you are spending so much time in the US without proper resident status you should be concerned about . Note that you would be granted 90 days of stay in the US on the first entry and <URL> so you would need to come back to Europe after three months . Once again , the length of stay is the most pressing issue , not renewing the visa or authorization nor leaving and entering the country repeatedly .
There is no issue with your Visa Waiver when you enter by land . According to <URL> you do n't even need ESTA . So as long as your Waiver clock still has some time on it see <URL> or <URL> you should not have an issue .
Important for car ( if you rent one , it will automatically have mph , but it is still useful how fast you are going for e.g. braking distance ) : All values are rounded for convenience ; the most frequent values are Speed 30 mph = 50 km/h 55 mph = 90 km/h 65 mph = 100 km/h Every car has cruise control . If you want to explore the USA by car , I recommend strongly to use it because the long distances together with the consistent speed limit and no action ( In Europe you are overtaking , adjusting the speed because the speed limit changes , changing the lane and leave the highway ) causes you to violate the speed limit easily and the punishment is prohibitive for European standards . Temperature Fahrenheit in Celsius : Subtract 30 and halve the value 30 - 40 ° F = 0 - 5 ° C cold 40 - 50 ° F = 5 - 10 ° C cool 50 - 60 ° F = 10 - 15 ° C fresh 60 - 70 ° F = 15 - 20 ° C coolish 70 - 80 ° F = 20 - 25 ° C normal 80 - 90 ° F = 25 - 30 ° C warm Distance 1 inch = 2,5 cm ( width of a thumb ) 1 foot = 12 inches = 30 cm ( a big foot , multiply with 3/10 ) 1 yard = 3 foot = 90 cm ( a bit shorter than a m ) 1 mile = 1760 yards = 1,6 km ( multiply with 5/8 ) Time The 24h system is not used widely in the US , they are ( except the military ) still using the a.m. ( before midday ) and p.m ( after midday ) system . Everything which is not 12 : XX is easy ( 1:29 p.m. = 13:29 , 5:30 a.m. = 5:30 ) , but the 12 : XX are tricky because they are changing the a.m. / p.m. during midday and midnight . Example : From one minute to midday it is 11:59 a.m. , 12:00 p.m. , 12:01 p.m. ... 1:00 p.m. and at midnight the change to 12:00 a.m. occurs . It is good to know that the calendar begins with Sunday ( in contrast to Monday in Europe ) and dates are expressed in the month/day/year format . Drinking and car filling : The US and UK pint and quarts are different , I forgot that 1 fluid ounce = 30 ml ( US ) used for small portions 1 pint ~ 470 ml ( US ) / 550 ml ( UK ) ( half a liter ) 1 quart ~ 900 ml ( US ) / 1,1 l ( UK ) ( nearly a liter ) 1 gallon = 3,8 l ( important for filling the car and yes , petrol/gas is very cheap ) . Tire pressure 1 psi ( pounds/inch ² ) = 1/15 bar = 7 kPa ( 1 bar = 100 kPa ~ atmospheric pressure ) 15 psi = 1 bar = 100 kPa 30 psi = 2 bar = 200 kPa etc. . Weights : 1 pound = 450 g ( 1 kg = 2.2 lb ) 1 ton = 1 ton Miscellaneous The floors are numerated with 1/G , 2 , 3 , 4 ... instead of the European G , 1 , 2 , 3 ...
Certainly not . As a foreigner who lived in the UK for four years , I definitely only needed my passport for international travel . I used my New Zealand photo driver 's license initially for ID ( eg , to get into a bar ) , and then my UK one . For opening bank accounts and others where you sometimes require two forms , then you bring your passport . The UK is not like Russia or Uzbekistan where police on the street can and do stop you without cause and demand ID ( in my case , six times in one day in Tashkent , Uzbekistan ) . And in the event they DO need your ID , a driver 's license generally suffices - or they can go with you to your place of residence to get your passport if you for some reason got into serious strife . I can only think of a handful of cases that I needed my passport . To open a bank account , to prove my visa status for starting a new job , for renting a flat / staying in a hostel , and you definitely need it for hiring a car . I remember this one as I tried to argue it , but had to eventually go back home and get my passport . I was n't pleased .
end question
start question
Do I need a converter if the frequency ( Hz ) of a country is different ?
It 's not as important as the power requirement . From a <URL> : Frequency is generally not a problem -- most travel items will work on either 50 or 60 Hz . If all the electrical appliance does is produce heat or light ( except fluorescent lighting ) , then the frequency is unlikely to matter . However , I assume you 're talking about a laptop or phone or something . Some devices come with a frequency switch , others that depend on timing from the frequency ( clocks ) may experience issues with timing . But in general , as per the quoted paragraph , you 'll be fine . I decided not to quote the entire section , there 's quite a bit more to read at the link on Wiki if you 're interested - <URL> . Similarly , from the same page is a section on <URL> - it 'll cover the common ones from laptops , radios to cellphones and cameras .
They returned to the immigration office asked some questions and apparently the receipt tells them to come back on Thursday ( 4 days time ) to collect their passports .
If you believe the UK <URL> the green card is not necessary within the EU if the car is registered and insured in the EU : I have been told that a Green Card is not necessary for travel in Europe . Is this true ? It is correct that a Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union . This is because every EU country complies with the First Directive on Motor Insurance which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . Green Cards are also not necessary for some non-EU countries who are signatory to Section III of the Internal Regulations , which is an international agreement between Green Card Bureaux . These countries are Iceland , Norway , Switzerland ( incorporating Liechtenstein ) , Andorra and Serbia . Although a Green Card is not necessary for these non-EU countries our advice is to check the insurance position with your insurers before you travel . Our understanding is that a UK insurer is not legally obliged to provide cover for non-EU countries , although some may choose to do so . Similarly <URL> states it is not necessary to have a green card , but recommendable to carry some proof of insurance : It is not essential for an EU citizen to have a Green Card when travelling within the EU and certain other European countries , though if you do not take one you should instead carry your Certificate of Insurance . However , a Green Card can serve as easily recognisable proof of third party insurance , for example in the case of an accident , when travelling abroad . Finally the <URL> lists countried you need no green card for and such where it is needed : A Green Card is not required by law to cross borders within the European Union and some other countries . This is because all EU countries and certain other countries comply with the first directive on motor insurance , which says that every insurance policy issued in the EU must provide the minimum insurance cover required by law in any other EU country . The countries that do n't need a Green Card are : Andorra , Austria , Belgium , Bulgaria , Croatia , Cyprus , Czech Republic , Denmark , Estonia , Finland , France , Germany , Greece , Hungary , Iceland , Ireland , Italy , Latvia , Lithuania , Luxembourg , Malta , Netherlands , Norway , Poland , Portugal , Romania , Slovak Republic , Slovenia , Spain , Sweden and Switzerland . The countries that do need a Green Card are : Albania , Belarus , Bosnia and Herzegovina , Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( FYROM ) , Islamic Republic of Iran , Israel , Moldava , Morocco , Russia , Serbia and Montenegro , Tunisia , Turkey and Ukraine . Some more information my be found on <URL> and <URL> , but essentially gives the same answer .
A towel is required . And it has to be large enough . You are supposed to sit or to lie on it . One towel can be enough . However , a second towel and/or a bathrobe can be useful too , when you are relaxing outside the sauna . In most of the saunas you can rent towels and bathrobes . If 80x60 refer to centimeters , than it 's not enough . You have to fit on the towel , as shown here : However , sitting like this wo n't be accepted . You will then be kindly reminded to put your feet on the towel :
Well , The power socket is different , In Japan it is <URL> and <URL> while it is <URL> in Asutralia according to <URL> . The real problem here is the voltage , In Japan its 100V and in Australia it is 240V . Almost all phone , camera and laptop chargers are dual voltage and would work in any electricity from 100-240V but that 's not the case for almost all other electrical devices . Make it a habit to read the label that shows the voltage information on the back of chargers and electrical devices before you plug your devices in a foreign country . Since in Australia is 240V and in Japan is 100V then there will be no damage to your devices if you plug an Australian device in Japan even though it will not work . Anyway the opposite ( if you plug a 100V device into 240V power socket ) will lead to fireworks show so in case you are planning to buy electrical devices from Japan make sure it supports 240V .
As you are flying on Etihad Airways , your baggage will be checked all the way through . You can even avail US pre-clearance which is available at Abu Dhabi to avoid delays when landing in NYC .
Generally you must apply for a Schengen visa from the embassy or consulate serving the place of your residence . This is not necessarily the country of your nationality ; if you are in a third country on a long stay visa such as a student or work visa , then you are a resident of that third country . <URL> states : An application shall be examined and decided on by the consulate of the competent Member State in whose jurisdiction the applicant legally resides . A consulate of the competent Member State shall examine and decide on an application lodged by a third-country national legally present but not residing in its jurisdiction , if the applicant has provided justification for lodging the application at that consulate . Therefore , if you can convince the consulate that you have a very good reason for applying elsewhere than your residence , then they may accept and process the application .
<URL> has some pretty extensive information about power standards around the world . According to this information , the Philippines uses types A , B , and C plugs : However , it operates at 220V , 60Hz . The US uses 120V 60Hz . So while your US plugs ( Type A &amp; B ) will physically fit into the sockets in the Philippines , you need to be sure your devices are electronically compatible with 220V . Most modern electronics ( laptops , for instance ) have auto-sensing power supplies , which accept 110V-240V , and adjust accordingly . Here 's an image of my laptop power supply , with the relevant info circled ( Which reads INPUT : 100-240V ~ 1.5 A 50-60Hz ) : Some older electronics will have a switch you can toggle between 120V and 220V . You 'll need to check your individual devices to be sure . It 's unclear to me from this information if you may find yourself in a situation with only a Type C plug . You may want to get a Type C to Type A adapter such as <URL> just to be safe .
Bit late to the party , but for the benefit of future readers : I am Canadian , and I have rented a car in several US states and Germany using an Alberta class 5 license . The process involved exactly zero questions or even a raised eyebrow . An international permit / translation was not required , they speak the same language down there ( well , reasonably the same . They ca n't spell ) . However , your boyfriend will remain a passenger - learner 's permits wo n't be accepted by any rental company .
The Health Assist Blog outlines ( quite comprehensively ) the fast food of various countries globally . Part 1 illustrates fast food that can be obtained in the following european countries : Denmark The Netherlands Austria Belgium Finland Poland Sweden Germany United Kingdom <URL> Part II illustrates Asian &amp; Australian fast foods : Australia China India Indonesia Japan Korea <URL> Part III illustrates South , Central American &amp; Mexican fast foods : Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Bolivia Costa Rica Panama Peru Venezuela Mexico <URL> Edit If you are in London ( UK ) this weekend 28th - 29th September 2013 you will be able to taste a variant of fast food because a festival of european street food , with food stalls from all over Europe will be hitting East London 's Dalston Yard . So you can go around sampling different european tasties , and ask the people of those countries selling them how typical or perhaps non typical they are of the that particular country ! If you want to sample some the finest that Europe has to offer , more information on this event can be seen : <URL> .
In my experience there are two situations where people tend to get on the wrong side of the road : After stopping for whatever reason . If you 're thinking about something else when you get back in your car and start driving , you can very easily do the wrong thing based on your usual driving side . Visualise how you 're going to start out ( enter the street ) before you start driving . When transitioning from a narrow ( perhaps a winding mountain ) road to a wider one . This is particularly important if you are in an area with one lane bridges . Here in New Zealand , the road is often marked with a forward arrow in the correct ( left ) lane when the two lane road resumes . It is also helpful to have somebody else in the car who is paying attention to your driving and can let you know if you 're doing ( or about to do ) something wrong . Another pair of eyes definitely helps . For lane changing , well I 've never driven in India so all I know is what I 've seen in pictures and videos . I understand the concept of " lanes " is not widespread . In the US , generally you can change lanes whenever there is a broken white line between the lanes ( assuming both lanes are in the same travel direction ) . Signal your intention to change at least a couple of seconds in advance . Do n't change lanes while going through an intersection . There are likely many online driving tests for any particular US state that you intend to drive in . It might be helpful to run through some practice tests if you are unsure what you need to know . Most rules are the same throughout the country , but some states have particular rules you may need to know ( rules that often vary are things like U-turns and right turns on red ) .
I 've never heard of any situation in which you need a visa of any kind to fly over a country . You would only potentially need one if the flight was planning to land in Russia , in which case it would depend on your precise itinerary , citizenship , whether you needed to leave the transit area , etc. . Imagine the confusion if you had to apply for transit visas for every country you overflew - on a long flight there could be dozens . The international community is sensible enough not to demand that . In theory , if your airline provided the passenger manifest to Russia before the flight , and the Russian authorities saw your name and decided they did not want you flying over their country , then they could refuse permission for the flight to enter their airspace with you on board . In that case the airline would most likely just refuse to let you board at all , so that they could fly over Russia as planned . But this is improbable ; and if it did happen , having a visa would n't help . If for some reason , your flight makes an unscheduled landing in Russia due to an emergency or other unexpected event , you 'd either be kept on the plane , let off the plane but kept in a closed area like the airport lounge , or issued an emergency visa . You still would n't need to have applied for a transit visa in advance .
The Myanmar entry permits granted at Mae Sai/Tachileik are not full-fledged visas : they 're only good for 14 days and do not allow travel elsewhere in Myanmar , and this is enforced by them keeping your passport ! On the upside , they 're granted to anybody with a crisp 10-spot and a pulse , and I suspect that second requirement is optional . Details at <URL> . And it 's a good thing you do have that Thai double-entry visa , since Immigration has recently ( May 2014 ) <URL> . Obviously this only applies to people abusing visas on arrival though , and I 'm kind of curious about what they can realistically do to a busted visa runner returning from Tachileik , as there 's literally no other way out than through Thailand -- probably a toss between a short this-is-your-final-entry stamp , or a spell in Immigration detention before they deport you through Bangkok .
The level of support offered by embassies will vary widely from each foreign embassy / consulate to another . A couple of standard support measures provided though are : Contact family members to pass messages along Provide details on contact information on local lawyers , and interpreters if needed . Depending on whether such a support system is available for your nationality , get you <URL> or provide loans for financial aid . Probably more important than what they do provide is what they do n't provide . Embassies do not directly provide legal assistance , immunity , or evacuation just because someone is in trouble with the police . If caught in such a situation , it 's necessary to manage expectations on what an embassy can do realistically . While it is n't always possible to know the local laws of a country , not knowing you did something wrong is rarely ever a valid excuse . Use common sense - and as a rough yardstick do n't do anything illegal in your own country - for starters . This is especially <URL> as they could use legitimate less-known laws or made-up charges to shake you down . Embassies will rarely , if ever , provide assistance in these situations unless something seriously goes wrong . Another thing that can help you receive assistance quickly is your country 's embassy offers any form of registration programme , so that they know your details . Probably not very useful or even necessary for short-term travellers though .
Ultimately there is no penalty for writing the country name wrong on your Immigration form . The list is there to allow the immigration officer quickly determine if any secondary questions should be asked or to inform customs that perhaps a secondary inspection might be warranted ( often used by Agriculture Department to route people for Ag Inspections ) . Since Crimea currently is sort of a no man 's land when it comes to being officially recognized , I would just write down Crimea by itself . If the Immigration officer feels it should be written as Ukraine or something else , they will either change it for you or ask you to update the form . They will likely be more concerned as to why you were in Crimea , rather than how you wrote it on your form .
My parents just visited Niagara Falls last week ( 12 , 13 and 14 September ) from New York , they too visited only the US side . And , one weekend before my parents , my colleague visited their with his family ( after his reviews I planned tour for my parents ) . So , as told by all of them and after seeing the pictures they have taken , I can assure you that the view at this time is same as seen over google pictures . Level of water and crowd visiting Niagara falls is good enough to make this tour a cherish-able tour . Although my parents has taken 3 days and 2 nights tour ( including Washington DC , Philadelphia , Watkins Glen Tour ) but they were very much impressed and happy with the Niagara Falls place . If you visit the same by anytime end of October it will be good time for visiting that place .
Quick answer - no , you will not require a transit Visa . Longer answer - a Schengen visa allows you to enter any country in the Schengen area . In your case you will use it to enter the Schengen area in Frankfurt . Once you 've entered Germany there is no passport control for flights to other Schengen countries , so you will NOT pass through immigration when going from Frankfurt to Milan . In effect , you can think of the Schengen area as a single " country " with multiple states . Your visa allows access to any part of the " country " - and then there is uncontrolled travel permitted between the states .
The scheme for Iranians to visit Georgia visa-free was <URL> . Unless they qualify for <URL> , Iranian citizens now need a visa ( which can be <URL> ) . This arose from two issues : First , the USA suggesting to Georgia that they should not let Iranians come into the country so easily ; and second , Georgia 's long-term desire to eventually become an EU member state . <URL> : 30 days visa-free entry for those born in Georgia but who are not citizens ; 90 in 180 days for those holding a valid visa or residence permit for a Schengen member state , or for Australia , Bahrain , Bermuda , British Virgin Islands , Canada , Cayman Islands , Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , Israel , Japan , Kuwait , New Zealand , Oman , Qatar , Saudi Arabia , South Korea , Turks and Caicos Islands , USA , or United Arab Emirates . Given the contents of this list , it 's quite possible that your Iranian friend already has such a visa .
Not sure if this is quite the scenario you are outlining , but : If you 're really really broke , chances are you wo n't be eating at restaurants or places that require tipping in the first place :) At least in the US , tipping is not the norm ( or is completely optional - eg . tip jar might be present ) at fast food ( McD , Chipotle ) , sandwich shops ( Subway ) or other similar food outlets even in countries where tipping is expected at restaurants . Generally tips are only expected where you have sit-down service ; if you 're standing in line at a counter , no tip needed . At least in the US , the best way to look at tipping in a restaurant is to consider it to be part of the price of the meal . It 's standard for good service . If your budget does n't cover the full price ( including tax and tip ) , then choose a more appropriate dining option , otherwise you 're essentially underpaying and stiffing the waitstaff . So the analogous situation is : if you were in a country that did n't require tips , what would you plan on doing ? ( Probably not underpaying ! ) For going for drinks , check to see if there 's anywhere that has happy hour specials that you can take advantage of , you can often get decently cheap beer ( $ 2 PBRs ! ) or appetizers depending on the venue and time ; or it might be possible to chip in with the others to buy a pitcher of beer so you can still participate without having to over-commit . Just being upfront with the other folks about being at the end of your budget might be the best strategy ; depending on their cultural background , they may well be up for covering you for a drink or so in exchange for your travel stories or as a matter of hospitality - that whole kindness of strangers thing .
No , as a Swiss citizen you do not need a visa for visits up to 90 days . References : <URL> , <URL> , <URL>
end question
start question
Is there any website or app to lookup flight paths ?
The problem is that flight paths change quite often depending on prevailing winds , air traffic and weather patterns . So there 's not always one exact flight path that you can rely on . However , if you want to see where a plane is at any given time and what path it took , I use <URL> , which is remarkably close visually to the air traffic radar screens we used to use when I did ATC software development .
Of course there are . It is even very common , at least for long distance run For some lines ( such as Medan-Singkil ) , it is even the only option available . The thinking is that there is less trafic at night and that , especially on a twisty mountain road , you see better the incoming car at night . I took night transports ( long distance taxi , minibus or big bus ) on line going from Medan to Singkil , Dumai and Pekanbaru . Each of those is at least 10 hours long .
The site explains : If all the times are taken , the following message will be displayed : " no tickets available for the date requested " . Choose another day ( or purchase your ticket for immediate entry at the monument ticket counters ) . That says to me that if you ca n't buy online , you can still go up , but you 'll have to wait in a ( possibly long ) line . This is a Monday morning , 9 years ago - I would n't mind waiting in this line ( in fact , I waited in one just like it before I got the picture ) : However , it can clearly get <URL> . Investigate those pictures more closely to see what your chances might be like on a weekend .
Not the scale of the Badlands , only a small museum , there is <URL> Museum in the South-West of France , somewhere between Carcassonne and Perpignan in a small village named Espéraza . Near that place there is another museum dedicated to the <URL> . This region on the foothills of the Pyrénées mountains is also full of medieval Cathar castles .
According to flypeach <URL> : Fees and charges are quoted in the currency of your first point of origin This is typical for airline websites , but online travel agents often allow you to book in the currency of your choice . If you wish to view the price in an alternate currency , then you could install a web page currency conversion plugin .
There are many but , and I think this list may not be all , but certainly most . <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
According to the <URL> charter flights are seasonal and are provided as a service to travel agencies : On its charter flights Travel Service transports not only clients of Czech and foreign travel agencies So the only people who would know about these flights are the agencies or an agency that charters it . The fact that flight comes and goes with some regularity there is no requirement for <URL> to make this flight if it has not been paid for . Namely : <URL> is renting out the entire aircraft ( and crew ) to an agency which then sells the tickets usually as part of a package case in point <URL> airline which had a regularly scheduled flights to the Caribbean islands from the US but after 2008 you could not book the seat on it individually only from <URL> as part of your vacation package . So if you want to purchase a seat on a chartered flight you will need to get in touch with the company that chartered the plane and even then they do n't have to sell you a seat only if they are selling seats as part of a package . P.S. . The closest alternative available for getting a seat on a chartered flight that I had found would be <URL> . This does n't mean that you will get the flight you want or even that someone will want to deal with you if you found .
This past summer I followed quite a bit of it through Central Asia , in areas which I 'd consider to be moderately difficult to navigate - like Uzbekistan . <URL> shows more information on the Silk Road , and it 's worth noting there are several branches of it , depending on whether you go through the deserts , or through Afghanistan . Individual links on that page , will give you details about how to reach each city . For me , Uzbekistan is a hidden jewel - most people ca n't even name it as a country , and yet <URL> , <URL> and <URL> are among some of the most impressive historic cities I 've ever seen . And yes , sadly it 's not as accurate as you 'd like , but I saw this map just inside Khiva 's West Gate : The problem with what you 're trying to find is that there is no ONE Silk Road . Even when travelling between two cities , people might detour when a river is in flood , or to feed animals , or to avoid a known criminal hotspot . So there are in some ways thousands of potential deviations - only the rough directional heading between cities will be shown on most maps . Indeed , according to Wikipedia , there were even <URL> ! You may also consider <URL> commonly accepted as being along the various Silk road routes . Map included on page .
In short , no , there 's no Japanese region known for spicy food in the same way that ( say ) Sichuan or Thailand is . Japanese does n't really even have a word for " spicy " , 辛い karai originally meant " salty " and is still used in that sense as well . However , there are a couple of spicy local specialities , mostly in the south of the country where they had the most Chinese/Korean influence . ( courtesy Babi Hijau , <URL> ) Karashi renkon ( 辛子蓮根 ) means " spicy lotus root " , and it consists basically of lotus root stuffed with mustard -- and in case you have n't tried Japanese mustard yet , it 's usually blow-your-socks-off hot . This is a speciality of Kumamoto prefecture in Kyushu . ( courtesy Kanko , <URL> ) Karashi mentaiko ( 辛子明太子 ) is spicy cod roe , this time with actual chilli . It 's a Korean import that first landed in Japan at Shimonoseki at the western tip of Honshu , but is now well known all around northern Kyushu ( esp . Fukuoka ) as well . It 's a rather expensive delicacy , and mentaiko spaghetti is a very popular ( but only mildly spicy ) way to eat it , but connoisseurs eat it raw with rice . ( courtesy me ) Speaking of Kyushu , while classical tonkotsu ramen ( 豚骨ラーメン , noodles in pork bone broth ) is not spicy , it 's very common to add chili to it these days . Fukuoka is also the home of tonkotsu , with <URL> ( 一蘭 ) and <URL> ( 一風堂 ) battling it out for supremacy -- Ippudo 's akamaru , in particular , is both famous and spicy . That said , <URL> : diners eat in curtained-off single booths ! And you can specify the size of your chili dab , the default is above . And that 's about it , really , for main dishes or even main ingredients . In addition to wasabi and shichimi , Japanese cuisine uses some " spicy " spices : The karashi mustard of karashi-renkon is also used to spice up some otherwise bland dishes like oden stew . <URL> is a paste of yuzu ( a citrus fruit ) peel with green chillies , most commonly eaten with nabe hotpot stews and yakitori grilled chicken . Originally from Yufuin in Kyushu , but was briefly super-popular nationwide a few years back . <URL> ( a mild relative of Sichuan pepper ) is used in a few dishes like grilled eel ( unagi ) . There 's also a whole slew of spicy nibbles designed to accompany alcohol , eg . takowasabi ( minced octopus with wasabi ) and <URL> ( fermented squid guts , absolutely horrible stuff ) , but none of these are particularly regional as far as I 'm aware . Last but not least , do n't forget more recent culinary imports : Japan 's larger cities usually have Korean enclaves ( eg . Tsuruhashi in Osaka and Okubo in Tokyo ) which will give you all the chilli you can handle and then some , and many Korean foods like yakiniku BBQ have become an essential part of Japanese cuisine . Curry rice is apparently the single most common dish prepared in Japanese homes , although this came to Japan via England and even the notionally " spicy " ( 辛口 karakuchi ) varieties will barely register on the palate of a chilli fiend . Last and probably least , <URL> ( 中華料理 chūka ryōri ) is ubiquitous , even the smallest town will have one or two restaurants serving it . Unfortunately most all spiciness has usually been blanched out , with originally murderously hot Sichuan dishes like mapo doufu turned into vaguely ketchup-y concoctions , but there are usually a few token nominally spicy dishes like ebi chiri ( エビチリ ) , shrimp in chilli sauce , on the menu .
Unfortunately , the solutions to this seem quite limited . <URL> will provide you with 50MB of data per day $ 27.50 for the first day and $ 3.50 per day afterwards . Alternatively , you can receive 1GB for $ 65 and $ 45 per GB ( or part thereof ! ) over 30 days . Not very flexible at all . Various countries have <URL> - but it works quite well across Europe . Unfortunately , you also have to pay expensive shipping costs for receiving and returning a <URL> . In Australia , it would cost me $ 68 just in shipping costs . Another option seems to be to obtain a pre-paid SIM in Europe and add a booster . <URL> has boosters that cost between # 1 for 3MB for a day , or # 5 for 20MB over a week , or # 10 for 50MB over 30 days . You may need to pay for some normal credit as well . You may also want to add a <URL> for normal calls .
but there are a lot of blogs online about that stuff and it seems pointless to add another . There are never enough blogs on any topic . See <URL> . What things to consider especially for travel blogs ? the backend ( where you create your content and config your blog ) should be accessible from mobile devices ; if it 's no fun / not easy , you 'll probably do n't post so much if a problem occurs , you should be able to handle/fix it on tour ( or contact someone who can do it for you ) backups should be done automatically ( e.g. send a database dump daily to a separate mail account ) if you use internet cafés and/or untrusted networks , your password could be stolen ; do n't use an admin account to post/edit content ; but have admin login available for emergencies ( e.g. to delete compromised user accounts ) good <URL> : functionality to add new posts by email Self-hosting vs. 3rd party service Self-hosting advantages you get exactly what you want it 's your content , you have full control , you can backup it ( some services allow this , too , but not all ) no policies , no censorship , no rules , no service terms you can fix any problems yourself ( and do n't have to wait for the provider to do it ) you can create/use accounts with lesser privileges ( security ) disadvantages costs more time costs money ( hosting ) need to know that stuff ( resp . dig into it ) you have to update the software yourself ( security ) you need to fix any problems yourself ;) 3rd party service advantages no setup , no configuration , no updates ( usually ) no costs disadvantages might not offer exactly what you need ; customization possibilites are limited you do n't " own " your content ; ( often ) no backup possibility you have to respect their service terms ( often ) ads you ca n't do anything if it goes down ( often ) you have only one account ; if your password is stolen , your account is lost risk of being deleted ( for no reason ) , risk that the service might shut down forever
Ada Parry of Woodygupildiyerr , the Cultural Education Coordinator for NTGPE - had a cultural Aboriginal immersion course offered in July of this year . 7 people were invited to come and stay with his family in her cultural home for 5 days . I 'd suggest that would be a great place to start - if the program was successful , Ada may well be running more , and may even be aware of other similar projects happening within Australia . <URL> .
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
There are probably well over a hundred real castles converted to hotels in Europe - maintaining a castle is expensive , so most people who own one need to monetize it somehow . Here 's a <URL> that lists 40 castles and palaces converted into hotels in Germany alone ... The question is : how historical do you want it to be to count as " real " ? Older than 200 years ? Older than 500 ? A pretty solid candidate would be <URL> in Bavaria : first documented in 1280 , never substantially destroyed and rebuilt ( which is the case for a great many old castles ) . However , the historical past is not all that exciting ( the castle seems to have changed hands a lot , but was never involved in big historical events ) .
According to the InterWebs there are only two Korean restaurants in Romania , both in Bucharest ( <URL> and <URL> ) , however where-ever there is a good number of Korean tourists or workers , there is usually also a Korean restaurant . Looking at the <URL> of Daewoo Mangalia Heavy Industries . all the managers listed there have Romanian names , the president and CEO is Korean , but it seems he is based in Korea . So we can assume there are not many Koreans working at the site , and therefore there is no place to get Korean food . There are a few Chinese places up the coast in Constanta .
Random paper pieces security system : When I feel the need ( varies ) I place all material that I wish not to be accessed either in a cupboard or a pile in a corner , place a blanket or similar over it all , tuck in the edges , then tear a sheet of paper in random pieces and scatter them over the heap and take a photo . I frame the photo in such a way that I can replicate it subsequently . On return to my room I take another photo and compare the two . Care needs to be taken that drafts from air conditioning , windows or opening a door will not disturb the paper . The odds of anyone being able to disturb and replace all the paper pieces in their original position is essentially zero except if they take a photo and then carefully remove pieces systematically and restore them using the photo . ie a professional ' spy ' or dedicated thief may be able to do it but the odds are minimal . Updated : I just came across this example in my photos . Not as orderly as sometimes - and a confident person could risk feeling with their hand at bottom right - but it would be a risk and if they disturbed it there is no undoing it . And even the wrinkles in the blanket cover are part of the image available for checking . I have used the same method once where I had reason to doubt the security of a locker . In that case I meandered a long piece of twine over the top of goods in the locker . Twine in locker . Purpose obvious enough to the discerning . Very quick and basic but , without a camera no way to put it back accurately enough . Even taking a photo would make replacement extremely challenging . Note that camera position and framing is important for ease of comparison . In no case has my paper or twine ever appeared to have been disturbed . Pushed paper : I sometimes use a version of the hair tell-tale . I place something either on the floor or against a door in such a way that it must be moved when the door is opened . The super observant intruder could look for such things but it 's unlikely . Motion triggered camera : I have not ( yet ) tried this but it is among the more useful methods . Some cameras offer the ability to trigger on motion and to take video and/or stills according to a program . While the cost of a new camera that does this may be high , there is a low cost and highly effective way to do it . The free Canon SDK software allows many Canon A series cameras to have this facility . Triggering can be on motion in a selected area of the image . Suitable used cameras can be obtained at low cost ( from about $ 10 up in NZ ) and programmed for this and many other purposes . ( I used one to do 10 second time lapse journey footage and sunset footage in Australia with great success . ) For longer periods you may need an external battery or a mains power supply . ( A small cheap sealed lead acid 6V battery would work in many cases . Bonus : If the camera vanishes you know that there has been an intruder . Related : Sometimes I really really do not want cleaning staff to access my room or I want them to only access the bathroom . Usually this is because I have an immense mess in the room with papers and/or equipment arranged to suit me and do not want them disturbed or damaged . In such cases I have on occasion strung a string across the room at the " no intrusion " boundary and hung one or several relevant signs on it . These may not say any more than the sign on the door says but vividly convey how serious I am . It seems to work . It 's useful to be able to get the bathroom cleaned without the rest of the room being touched . On occasions I have had ' helpful ' cleaners take material that was NOT in a bin or similar and that was NOT rubbish . If there is a risk of this and it matter suitable care needs to be taken .
There is really no ' trick ' to this type of travel . If you want to book this as a single itinerary then the only ' trick ' is to go to as many booking sites ( brokers and airlines ) as you can manage and do price comparisons . It helps to have some flexibility in the dates . If you do n't mind booking multiple tickets , probably the best deal on this trip will be to buy two round trip tickets . First A - > B - > A and then , separately , B - > C - > B with the latter ticket being within the time you spend in city B . The main issue with this is that these are independent tickets . If flight A - > B is delayed , causing you to miss B - > C then you are responsible for buying a new B - > C ticket . Since you plan on staying in B before proceeding to C , this will only be a problem on your return journey where a delay in C - > B can cause you to miss B - > A. Ideally , you should split your stay in B to ensure against this . At minimum ensure that you have 3 + hours stopover on the way back ( more if the flight B - > A is an expensive one ) . Lastly , it is worth pricing individual flights from A - > B , B - > C and C - > A. Typically , you wont save any money over two round trip tickets , but sometimes it may wind up only costing a little bit more and you get a simpler leg C - > A . This will vary depending on what cities A , B and C are and how they relate to each other . Also if an airline has its hub in A and offers flight to both B and C ( but has no flights between B and C ) they may sell you a return ticket with the legs A - > B and C - > A . This all depends on what cites A , B and C stand for . I did a trip like this recently where A was Reykjavik , B Washington D.C. and C San Francisco . It wound up being simplest to book A - > B and C - > A ( via Seattle actually ) as a return ticket with one airline and then B - > C as a separate one-way ticket with another airline . Doing it this way was actually a bit cheaper ( although only a bit ) but the flight home via Seattle was much shorter then to go back home via D.C.
See " standard warning " at end re the inadvisability of snorkelling alone . It depends on what you want to see and do , but a brief answer is " almost anywhere that you see sea-water . Auckland is not renowned for its water clarity , but it can still be fun ( speaking from personal experience ) . You 'd want to stay away from the sewage ponds at Mangere , and some of the major creeks/streams that drain storm water from industrial areas . The Auckland East Coast beaches are all relatively safe . Rock areas between beaches are not usually anywhere as violently dangerous as the West Coast beaches but have numerous rock pools and relatively low depth areas with a reasonable amount of sea life . I 've never done it , but the old explosives wharf - now just <URL> - zoom out to see where you are - would be fun foir snorkelling . There MAY be a " no swimming " requirement - but probably not . I 've fished there , but never swum . <URL> is an utter gem . Several hour ferry ride so not zero $ but it 's a completely different world . Beaches and hidden spots with few people ( and a few very strange ones :-) ) . An utterly superb summer venue ( good also in winter but colder ) is " Goat Island Bay " a few hours by bus North of Auckland , but worth the trip . Transport may require some ingenuity - but to get a bus most of the way for $ NZ1 see below " The Naked Bus " . " Goat Island Bay " is the site of a university marine research station and also a marine reserve where all marine wildlife is protected . I snorkelled there some years ago and have never seen so many fish anywhere else in NZ . This may not always be what happens and things may have changed in more recent years , but you can inquire re the latest situation . <URL> <URL> The Naked Bus Company <URL> provides a bus service which covers much of New Zealand ( both main islands ) and which can cost as little as $ 1 full fare IF you book far enough ahead . As the date gets closer prices rise , but are usually still reasonable . A ride to Warkworth ( near GIB ) in March is still $ 1 on some days at some times . On March 8th you can catch an Auckland To Wellington bus for $ 9.99 - IF you book now . <URL> <URL> Standard warning - which will be ignored : There are no places anywhere that are good for snorkeling by yourself if you want to live to a ripe old age . Snorkeling is at the very benign end of hazardous underwater pursuits . While it 's about as safe as any such activity , it 's not wholly safe . But , you know that . I had a friend who frequently engaged in a ' safe ' water sport by himself in Auckland . He died . He was very competent and very experienced and everyone was extremely surprised . But , he 's still dead . Nobody knows exactly how it happened , but there is a good chance that if he had had a " buddy " present that he would have lived . Auckland map : Purple - best likelihood of calm and somewhat clear conditions . Waitemata harbour ( East/right ) is bearable for swimming . Sometimes Orca come in past the harbour bridge ! Rare . West Coast beaches ( red ovals ) are GREAT fun but great care needed . Careless people die . Muriwai - long ocean beach with breakers . Rocks to south of road access . People fish from here and on occasion get swept off and die . A competent snorkeller WITH FINS could have great fun there . I would only do it with wetsuit and fins !!! Piha . Bus from Auckland . Great surf beach . Some interesting rock pools , blow holes . You can swim around Lion Rock . Surf can be large . Getting back in through breakers cvan be demanding ( ask me how I know :-) ) . Karekare - South of Piha ( no circle ) . Bus maybe . Rangitoto Island - Ferry from Ak . Few people . Rugged lava coastline . Water as good as anywhere here . Waiheke Island . Ferry . Some lovely beaches , lots of rocky bays , headlands , ... . <URL>
You have four options , although you may need to wait for a couple of them ... <URL> houses permanent and temporary exhibits relating to sport and the Olympic movement . However it 's closed for renovations until the end of next year . <URL> in Hakon 's Hall in Lillehammer , was officially opened by King Harald V and Queen Sonja on November 27 , 1997 . It is the only museum in northern Europe that presents the entire history of the Olympic Games . <URL> used to be just a Sports Museum , but was moved to a new building in 2004 during the Olympic Games year in Athens , and was redesignated as the Olympic Museum . In 2014 , <URL> . Interactive exhibits will gather together London 2012 memories , show how the venues were built , and seek to inspire future generations .
I ca n't figure out if you are mainly asking about regulations or about possible differences between planes from the same model that might interest a traveller . If you want more details on the former , you might consider asking on the <URL> sister site but regarding the latter , there are definitely differences . Airlines can and do ask plane makers like Airbus or Boeing for customizations in interior design . Differences includes class configuration ( how many first class and business seats ) , the amenities and the seats themselves ( there are big differences especially in the premium classes ) , the size of the seats and the distance between the rows . Insiders call this the " hard product " . As pointed out in the comments , it 's even possible to change the interior configuration on an existing plane after delivery ( although immobilizing a plane for that costs a lot of money ) . Case in point , the <URL> ( a common choice for short-haul low-cost flights ) can be between 150 ( in a two-class cabin ) and 180 ( in a ' high-density ' single class configuration ) . Similarly , the Airbus A380 is certified for <URL> but nobody has ordered one with so many seats and each operator uses a different configuration , sometimes even two . Beyond that , some rows have to be further apart for operational reasons ( emergency exit rows , row at the front with the passage to the front door or a bulkhead in front of them ) . Traditionally , you could get a seat there by chance or , possibly , by being clever and asking for it while still paying the same price . But some airlines realized they could scrap a little bit of profit by selling those seats at a small premium . That 's the origin of , e.g. , Easyjet 's " XL " extra legroom seats ( they did not order new planes with specially designed " premium " seats , let alone a a kind of two-class cabin , they just happened to have 12-18 seats with more legroom on each plane already ) . One drawback is that you ca n't put anything under the seat in front of you on these rows . There is a website called seatguru with a huge wealth of information on seat dimensions and cabin configuration on various airlines . Glancing at their <URL> , you will see that seat pitch ( distance between rows ) ranges between 28 and 39 inches ( almost 40 % more ! ) across all planes and airlines . Similarly , seat width is between 16 or 17 and 20 inches . Bottom line : You ca n't assume that flying a given plane model guarantees you will have the same leg space .
end question
start question
Any coworking space in Nicosia , Cyprus ?
Yes , the most known one online appears to be the Urban Hive . They have a <URL> , but are located at : Costa Ourani 8 , 1076 Nicosia , Cyprus +357 22 447282 If that fails , <URL> you could consider .
Like you I only took chicken buses but there are some long distances options . For example from San Jose in Costa Rica you can go to Panama City ( 15 hours : 1pm or 10pm ) San Salvador ( 48 hours , 6am , 7:30 am ) or even Guatemala City ( 60 hours 6am , 7:30 am ) . However when looking at an <URL> it turns out the buses are stopping overnight in places in El Salvador and Nicaragua . It seems the only overnight route is from Costa Rica to Panama City . Of course there are options in the opposite direction as well . On of the main companies doing these routes is <URL> I never seen any domestic overnight bus routes , but then again I never looked for them . I have a rule ' No night buses '
I was in Hong Kong recently and there was nothing that appeared to be ' weekend only ' . I did n't see any change in how crowded things were at weekends compared with weekdays . Hong Kong is always incredibly crowded . We did try to visit the Hong Kong Museum of History on a Tuesday and found that it was closed every Tuesday . ( It is well worth it , by the way - we came back a different day ) You might find that other museums have a ' closing day ' too .
You do n't need US driver 's license , just your national one . Some of the insurances are mandatory , some are optional . <URL> on WikiTravel gives a good overview . Details differ between different rental companies , so read the fine print on their web sites . You usually have to be 25 or older and need a credit card .
<URL> offers cash passports : You can choose to pick up your currency in one of our many stores or have it delivered directly to your door . It covers many of the major currencies , including Japanese YEN . <URL> You can buy at their counters in most major international airports , or online in advance .
Most <URL> indicate that now the Zimbabwean ATMs in Vic Falls dispense USD . <URL> indicates that : Barclays Bank and several of the other banks now have ATM cash withdrawal facilities accepting Visa and Master Cards and dispensing US$ cash . The limit is the same as your limit back home . Charges are $ 1.25 per transaction plus the charge from your local bank which can be 2 to 3 % .
Of course you can ! <URL> in <URL> is the place you want to go to , since a former competitor in Texas ( Texas Tank Adventure ) has apparently closed their doors . Drive A Tank is a family owned and operated business in Kasota , Minnesota , USA . Here you can experience real armored tanks up close and personal , get behind the controls and attempt to navigate our densley wooded course . You can even crush a car or two ! We have a number of U.S. vehicles and several imported British M.B.T.s , S.P.G.s , and A.P.C.s ! Afterwards , sample a few of our fully automatic machine guns in our indoor shooting range . Our state of the art facility is capable of handling up to .50 caliber ammunition . For those who live too far from Minnesota , there are possibilities in <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> as well , to name just a few . Just remember : Tanks are n't built for comfort , so if a seriously bumpy ride leaves you with horrible headaches , then this may not be for you - or you need to bring your painkillers .
Yes , the most known one online appears to be the Urban Hive . They have a <URL> , but are located at : Costa Ourani 8 , 1076 Nicosia , Cyprus +357 22 447282 If that fails , <URL> you could consider .
It seems to depend on what passport you have . Both the <URL> and the <URL> say the same thing . For tourist trips of up to 90 days , citiziens of European Union ( EU ) nations , Turkey , USA , Canada , Mexico , Israel , Japan , Singapore , Switzerland , Iceland , Norway , Australia , New Zealand do not require visa . It looks like all other countries do require visas , you 'll need to contact your nearest <URL> to get one . And if there is n't one , then it looks like Northern Cypriate matters will likely be handled by the local Turkish Embassy , so speak to them . As for issues with the two Cypruses , if you see the " Crossing the Green Line " section on the <URL> it suggests you should n't have any issues as the land border is open . If you 've not got a suitable EU passport or visa , you 'll need to get a visa to cross to the south , and you can certainly ask about it when applying for that visa . I would n't expect any issues though .
Yes there are drinking-water fountains at PRG airport . Below is an incomplete list ( feel free to edit with more information ) . At the time of writing ( 07/2015 ) the fountains look something like this : Water fountain at PRG airport , JoErNanO , Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Terminal 1 Terminal 2 2 fountains outside the toilets in front of gate C3
This question is not that easy to answer as the leg space is very different depending on plane , airline and therefore route . Anyhow I did n't found any leg space database/comparison on the web till now . But there is another indicator you can use which is mostly up to date - the seat pitch . Seat Pitch : The distance between two rows of seats , this is the best indicator of legroom . More is better . On a quick look , it is mostly United , KLM , Delta , AA on their long-haul Eco Flights . But make sure that you check the aircraft model too . You should take a look at <URL>
Legally speaking , no , you ca n't . The Republic of Cyprus 's ( ROC ) position on this is clear : the Turkish occupation of the northern half of the island is illegal , and they do not recognize the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus 's ( TRNC ) authority . Therefore , if you enter Cyprus via the TRNC , you are an illegal immigrant as far as the ROC is concerned and subject to detention and deportation if caught . However ... in practice , the ROC only appears to apply this to people who require visas for the ROC . If you are a citizen of a country that does not require a visa for the ROC , including the USA and all EU countries , you are generally permitted to enter the ROC without consequences . ( Exception : you are not allowed to fly out via the ROC , but must return to the TRNC . I presume this is because otherwise the Immigration computers would barf . ) All things considered , it 's preferable to visit the other way around , namely from the South to the North . Here the geopolitics work the other way : the ROC claims the entire island , so once you 've legally entered they allow you to visit the North ( because they pretend it 's ROC territory ) , and the TRNC has no claims on the southern half of Cyprus , so they 're happy to let you enter " officially " as well . See also : <URL>
Virgin Galactic is now saying it will be in 2013 ( <URL> and <URL> ) and $ 200,000 per person . I have no affiliation ; a friend of mine is on the waiting list . As <URL> explains , your choices are to pay the entire refundable amount up front and be sure of a seat on the first flight ( thus becoming one of the first thousand people in space , since about 500 people have been on NASA or Soviet missions and a little over 500 are on this list ) , or pay $ 20,000 and join the waiting list .
Of course there are . It is even very common , at least for long distance run For some lines ( such as Medan-Singkil ) , it is even the only option available . The thinking is that there is less trafic at night and that , especially on a twisty mountain road , you see better the incoming car at night . I took night transports ( long distance taxi , minibus or big bus ) on line going from Medan to Singkil , Dumai and Pekanbaru . Each of those is at least 10 hours long .
The most common rules ( may vary of course ) : you have to remove your shoes . men : trousers , not shorts women : long skirt ( or trousers ) women : shoulder and arms can not be exposed women : scarf ( sometimes )
There seems to be a small mosque in Liechtenstein , the <URL> in <URL> ( about 2km from the city center of Vaduz ) , that is also mentioned in this <URL> . The local population of Muslims only numbers about 2000 , but according to Wikipedia , there is <URL> .
Hope it 's okay I answer my own question as it might be useful to others but I tried an ATM at Scotiabank and I was able to withdraw $ 1000 . Not sure if it 's that particular ATM or just that bank 's machines but years earlier I renember being able to withdraw a large amount from SB as well . Perhaps RBC and CIBC save their bills for everyone so the machines do n't go empty but Scotiabank does n't care ?
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
From the website of La Cantine in Paris , I found <URL> in France . There happen to be at least 2 having a website in Lille . Both have an open space and coffee room with at least one meeting room . <URL> has <URL> , 2 euros per hour up to 10 euros per day . <URL> only targets regular coming people apparently , <URL> , but they offer a one-day trial if you email them . Otherwise , you still have the <URL> .
Well it turns out that <URL> . It lists details of 14 beaches in the area . Each entry begins with " Beach Fees " . The following beaches are free , as in you do n't need a beach tag : North Wildwood Beach Sea Isle City Beach ( Wednesdays only ) Upper Township Beach Wildwood Beach Wildwood Crest Beach
end question
start question
Are there countries aside from the US where I can go on storm chasing ( tornado ) tours ?
It 's rare for tornadoes elsewhere , commercially at least . From <URL> : Some organized chasing efforts have also begun in the Top End of the Northern Territory and in southeast Australia , with the biggest successes in November and December . A handful of individuals are also known to be chasing in other countries , including Israel , Italy , Spain , France , Belgium , the Netherlands , Finland , Germany , Switzerland , Bulgaria , Estonia , Argentina , and New Zealand ; although many people trek to the Great Plains of North America from these and other countries around the world ( especially from the United Kingdom ) . Overall , Australia seems like your best bet . It 's mostly enthusiasts up north , but they 're growing in numbers . A nice report on it <URL> , as well as <URL> . <URL> is probably your best bet for news on tornadoes and the like there , and <URL> would be the one to follow or contact to find out about any commercial groups operating . There are a few other random Storm Chasing websites in Aus , but they tend to be small individual groups , rather than commercial - however , you might find them keep to take you out for a trip , if you 're lucky : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> Finally , it 's worth noting that most American Storm Chasing companies will keep an eye on the Canadian Prairies , especially during June - as there is the occasional opportunity for it up there , depending on the weather .
Of course you can ! <URL> in <URL> is the place you want to go to , since a former competitor in Texas ( Texas Tank Adventure ) has apparently closed their doors . Drive A Tank is a family owned and operated business in Kasota , Minnesota , USA . Here you can experience real armored tanks up close and personal , get behind the controls and attempt to navigate our densley wooded course . You can even crush a car or two ! We have a number of U.S. vehicles and several imported British M.B.T.s , S.P.G.s , and A.P.C.s ! Afterwards , sample a few of our fully automatic machine guns in our indoor shooting range . Our state of the art facility is capable of handling up to .50 caliber ammunition . For those who live too far from Minnesota , there are possibilities in <URL> , <URL> , and the <URL> as well , to name just a few . Just remember : Tanks are n't built for comfort , so if a seriously bumpy ride leaves you with horrible headaches , then this may not be for you - or you need to bring your painkillers .
Being there certainly would increase your chances - as you can go and see the places , meet the estate agents , and call people during day hours . Example : place comes on the market at 9am , calls start at 10am , they could show someone through at lunch and by the time you wake up in the US , it 's gone . I was in Riga in May sorting out my Uzbekistan visa , which took six days . There was a British woman in the hostel looking at places to live in . It was really hard , but with the help of locals ( including the hostel staff ) she was finding more sources , friends of friends who knew of places , and the like . Definitely easier when you 're in a city than from afar . You could also consider <URL> a bit when you arrive , or do what I 'll be doing for Vancouver when I head there soon , and stay in a hostel for a bit . There are some hostels in Riga ( Central Hostel was really nice and good value ) which are n't party hostels , but are very well located , and you 'll make a lot of connections if you talk to the staff . Even going to a Couchsurfing meetup in town could net you some more connections or offers of a place to stay . My recommendation - try from where you are , but accept that it 'll be easier on the ground , and make back-up plans to make connections on your arrival .
<URL> goes to all the mentioned places : Discover Uluru , Kings Canyon and Alice Springs on this 3-day tour starting at Ayers Rock and ending in Alice Springs . Explore Australia 's great Central Desert - watch the sunrise over Uluru ( Ayers Rock ) , visit the magnificent Olga Gorge and Kings Canyon , with their beautiful waterholes and dazzling views . Stop off at a huge cattle station and the remote , early telegraph town of Alice Springs . They also mention infants explicitly as being free if they do not occupy a seat ( see under " schedule " ) , so we can strongly assume that they are allowed : Child rate applies only when sharing with 2 paying adults Infant are free provided they do not occupy a seat
Generally speaking the borders between Switzerland and its neighboring countries Liechtenstein , Austria , Germany , France and Italy are open for every one . Obviously , you need an appropriate visa , but if that is okay there is nothing that restrains you from crossing any border . For example with a Schengen visa you can cross every border between Switzerland and its neighboring countries .
The easiest way to answer this is to check the Transport for London <URL> , this will show the various ways you can get there and also highlight any ( planned ) closures , construction , etc. . Running Gatwick to London Bridge through that it suggests : 17 mins ( national-rail ) Southern to East Croydon Rail Station 19 mins ( national-rail ) Southern to London Bridge Rail Station or 46 mins ( national-rail ) Thameslink to Blackfriars Rail Station 4 mins ( tube ) District line or Circle line to Monument Underground Station Disruption : Part Closure 4 mins ( walking ) Walk to Bank 1 min ( tube ) Northern line to London Bridge Underground Station There 's also the <URL> which goes from Gatwick to Victoria ( faster but more expensive ) . There are various ways to go from Victoria to London Bridge . I think there is also a direct Southern train between Gatwick and London Bridge but it 's not showing up in the search . But just to double check the construction , you can check the <URL> page , the key point : How your travel could be affected London Bridge National Rail station will remain open and London Bridge Tube station will operate as normal throughout the rebuild . However London Overground , Southern , Thameslink and Southeastern passengers will be affected by the improvement plans at certain times up to 2018 . As a result , some services and stations on the Tube , London Overground and National Rail networks will be busier than usual as National Rail customers use alternative routes to complete their journeys . The next period of major changes to services is from January 2015 continuing to August 2016 . From Monday 5 January 2015 , Southern services will start to operate to and from London Bridge again , with a new timetable across the Southern network . Thameslink trains will run a limited service to and from London Bridge until January 2018 . From 12 January 2015 to August 2016 , all Southeastern services to and from Charing Cross will not call at London Bridge . That should n't impact the journeys above ( apart from the limited service on Thameslink ) . However , the <URL> also says : London Bridge : Southern and Network Rail apologise for the disruption and delays at London Bridge recently . The new track layout on the approach to the station has meant that so far , it has been a challenge to deliver the new timetable . We have reviewed this and made some changes to a small number of evening peak services to help us to deliver an improved service for you . We will be monitoring the service at London Bridge and assess if any long term changes to train services are required . So it 's definitely going to be worth double checking things closer to the ( via the links above or listen to the announcements , read the info boards and ask the station staff ) . There are also <URL> , but none get you much closer than the train .
The process of transferring from an international flight into the US to a domestic flight is largely the same , regardless of which US airport you go through . The first thing you 'll do is go through immigration . Last time I was in Dulles I had to stand in line for this for about 40 minutes . If your visa is in order , the actual process only takes a minute or two . If there is an issue with it , this can take quite some time . Twice I 've been sent to ' the office ' for follow up questions . It has never taken more than a half hour though . Once you clear immigration , you pick up your luggage . Typically , your luggage will be on the baggage carousel by the time you clear immigration . You will always need to claim your luggage at this point . Even if it was checked through to your final destination . You then proceed through customs with your luggage ( this is why you need to claim it , since you go through customs here , not at your final destination ) . If your luggage was checked through to your final destination , there is usually a baggage re-check soon after you clear customs . They are intended for travelers such as yourself so you do n't have to haul the luggage to your airline 's check-in counter and baggage drop area which is possibly in another terminal ( although in your case , you wont need to change terminals ) . If your luggage is not checked through to your final destination , proceed to your airline 's check-in counters . You can also do this even if your luggage was checked through and you missed the baggage re-check . You may also need to claim your boarding pass from your airline 's check-in counters . Once you 've dropped off your luggage and you have your boarding pass , proceed to your gate , passing through security . When you clear customs , you will be on the ground floor , check-in counters are two floors up . See <URL> for more details . If you already have your boarding pass and use the baggage re-check , then you can proceed through security immediately , follow signs " TO ALL GATES " . See also this page on <URL> . Overall , this process will take at least 1 hour , more likely 1,5 hours . 3.5 hours should be plenty unless there is an issue with your visa .
There is one airline , <URL> , which is trying to copy Ryanair with super cheap tickets and aggressively bad service . They serve a limited number of destinations , though , so they may or may not fly where you 're going . There are several airlines in the US which were started as low cost carriers . The biggest are jetBlue and Southwest . However , the entire airline business is so competitive that those airlines do n't always have the best prices . Every American airline tries to charge $ 1 less than the lowest competitor , so sometimes you will see amazingly high prices even on " low cost " airlines if the route is competitive enough , and sometimes big airlines will match Southwest 's fares . Your best bet is always going to be to do a search online to find the lowest fare for a given route . Southwest Airlines and Spirit Airlines will not appear on any website but their own , so if you are looking for the lowest fare , you will have to search on their two sites individually .
Certainly . Qantas flies them from Australia . <URL> They 're infrequent , but a few a year do fly down . I watched a documentary on it , it 's crazy that you can pay less for an ' inner ' seat where you do n't even get to see out the window without craning your neck ! From the site : The flight provides a full day of Antarctic experience . Our flight from Australia ranges between 9,500 -- 10,500 kms roundtrip ( approximately 12.5 hours ) depending on your departure city . Expert Antarctic expeditioners are onboard to talk on the polar environment and its history while video screenings depict life on the ground . Approximately three hours south of Australia , passengers will usually see the first scattered ice followed by dozens of icebergs and ice floes . We then cross the South Magnetic Pole where you will start to view the rugged mountainous topography of the Antarctic mainland .
Your best bet is to sign up to a crew-finding website like <URL> . A friend who cycled from London to New Zealand did this for the ocean parts - hung out in port and used the site . What was observed is that there are different levels of opportunities . Some berths require that you have licenses or sailing experience , or a particular skill ( eg cooking ) , while others will take anyone . The alternative , if you have the time ( like she did ) is to hang out by the docks and ask people - even if they are n't taking anyone , they may have heard of someone who is . Often it 's just spur of the moment opportunity .
If you attempt to book at <URL> site you could see the amenities that a train has . For example <URL> for April 5th lists that trains have restroom in them . P.S. Not sure that I would consider trains in Israel travelling long distances .
My experience with Vietnam was that it really did n't matter - there are literally hundreds of travel agencies and many of them share the same tour operators . You get picked up at the travel agency you booked at and the bus continues on to 5-10 other places to pick up everyone else . The only thing you really need consider is the price ( which should n't vary by much anyway ) . If you 're really concerned about getting ripped off ( unlikely ) , I would wait until you arrive , and just ask some recently returned travelers who they booked with and whether they would recommend them . You may even get a ( small ) discount if you say you were referred by someone else . For Ha Long Bay , most tour operators will recommend a 1-2 night tour , with one night on Cat Ba Island and one on a Vietnamese junk ( tourist boat ) . For what it 's worth , I thoroughly enjoyed both . Be warned that a junk recently sank during the night killing a few tourists , so be a bit more wary of spending a night on one . Similarly with Sapa , tour operators will recommend you do some trekking with/to meet the local Hmong tribes , this I would also thoroughly recommend . Do n't forget to bring some decent hiking boots ( or buy them in Hanoi ) as it 's always muddy . After the hike you can get your boots cleaned and dried in 20 minutes for about a dollar . I have no idea how they do it . Tours are very easy to organise from Hanoi but keep in mind if you 're going far afield it can take a very long time due to the condition of the roads and the fact that speeds are limited due to motorbikes/pigs/chickens / people sharing them with you . This should n't be a concern with what you 're interested in , but something to keep in mind if plans change .
I would recommend you <URL> . It 's only 35km from Berlin . Here is a <URL> that they offer . Here are some more tours : <URL> , <URL> , which also do other tours in Berlin . They are walking tours where you meet at a particular time and take the train to the destination .
One journalist did attempt to <URL> - both the artificial labs and the natural spaces . He details it in his book - <URL> if you 'd like to read it . The highlights in nature : Several years ago , the Campaign to Protect Rural England declared a <URL> the most tranquil place in the country ( when the nearby military base is n't doing training exercises ) . 12 such quiet places exist in the US , with more found around the world . A spot in the <URL> in Washington is one , as are places in <URL> in Canada , <URL> in Minnesota and <URL> in Hawaii ( see gallery ) . The others , however , he keeps confidential . On the other hand , he identified a quiet place deep in the <URL> , he suspects other such places in Poland , Norway , Sweden and Finland Recently , <URL> was created to show the quiet spots on a summer day . So that gives some idea for sound levels in the US . As you 'd expect - away from people , cities , and wildlife tends to produce quiet , although windy areas also affect it . Aside from nature , he points out the quietest places are custom built , such as the <URL> , in Minnesota . <URL> : " Group tours are available a few times a year and include a brief stop at the anechoic chamber ( call the lab for details ) . But the facility has had so much interest in the 45-minute challenge that the founder Steven Orfield is considering making that option available to the public within the next year , and is working with the Guinness Book of World Records to establish an official record for the longest time spent in an anechoic chamber . The 45-minute challenge will not come cheap , however , as companies renting the space normally pay $ 300 to $ 400 an hour , and someone trained from the lab must be able to supervise the participants to ensure their safety . " UPDATE : As of this month , Microsoft now officially holds the Guinness World Record for quietest place on earth - <URL> .
Sure . If you want to go to the US , and the trip is n't for an E-3 purpose , but does qualify you as a visitor for business or pleasure , you can enter on the VWP or a B-1 / B-2 visa . I 'm not sure what would disqualify you from traveling as an E-3 but not as a B or VWP visitor , but I imagine there might be reasons such relating to your US employment , or perhaps simply wanting to visit for pleasure . It may also be possible to travel for pleasure on your E-3 , though , which would save you 14 bucks . I do n't know whether that is the case .
It is possible to book online through <URL> You will be asked to pick the start point which is MTP and end point is UAM .
There are 192 members by the UN ( 193 if you count the Vatican , which is an observer without voting rights ) . There are 196 that qualify as ' independent countries ' . <URL> . <URL> This is debatable . For instance , I would say Taiwan is a country ... many people would disagree with me . Scotland and Wales I would not count as separate countries as they form a willing commonwealth in the UN as the United Kingdom . <URL> puts it at 204 ( including the new South Sudan ) . I would say this one is a little more controversial . It is up for debate if Northern Cyprus is sovereign . I prefer to use <URL> ( I 've seen it before , but I ca n't remember who came up with it ) and say there are 196 countries in the world . The criteria are : Has space or territory which has internationally recognized boundaries ( boundary disputes are OK ) . Has people who live there on an ongoing basis . Has economic activity and an organized economy . A country regulates foreign and domestic trade and issues money . Has the power of social engineering , such as education . Has a transportation system for moving goods and people . Has a government which provides public services and police power . Has sovereignty . No other State should have power over the country 's territory . Has external recognition . A country has been " voted into the club " by other countries Although , admittedly , some of these criteria are rather subjective .
No , there are n't . While branded the " Penguin Parade " , the entire penguin colony site is actually operated by Phillip Island Nature Parks , a <URL> , and the basic " General Viewing " option only buys you entry to the trails and seating area to watch the penguins waddle ashore . Actual guided tours cost more . There are <URL> , but they 're all some combination of inconveniently located and/or access restricted . The one exception that 's both free and convenient to visit is <URL> , only a stone 's throw from central Melbourne , but there are only a few dozen penguins living there with very limited viewing options , compared with the thousands easily seen from the purpose-built amphitheatres at Phillip Island . To be honest , given the selfie stick touting hordes they face every night , the real wonder of nature is why the penguins do n't all bugger off to somewhere else ...
There is a <URL> that specializes on so called cargo ship cruises . Their URL has been in my bookmarks for some years now , but unfortunately I did not find the time to experience a cargo cruise . If I remember correctly you could order one-way tickets . But best is to contact them for additional information . I believe that the average price is around $ 100 per day , which might make the travel fees unpredictable . Please update here if you find other solutions . I would still like to do a cargo cruise once .
<URL> ! Enter in the ' from ' part , eg , LON ( London , any airport ) is what I used to put when I lived there . Delete the ' to ' part , leaving it blank . Select the dates you require , from and to . Click search . It will then display a list of countries by price . Select the country of choice , and it 'll show cities in that country , by price . This is often how I 'd pick my next trip in Europe :)
end question
start question
What is the difference between Eurostar first class and French TGV first class ?
First Class on the TGV means a wider seat , power sockets , less people ( so a generally quieter environment ) , and that 's about it . Standard Premier on the Eurostar is pretty much the same , except you get a small cold dish and a cold alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverage . The difference in price is more due to demand than the actual cost of the service . Whether it 's worth it is up to you . The choice is not between Eurostar Standard Premier and TGV First Class , the choice is between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier . If the price difference between Eurostar Standard and Standard Premier is small enough to you that it 's worth it to spend those two hours with more space , a power socket , and a small free meal , then go for it . note : carriages 5 &amp; 14 have power sockets on the Eurostar , so if you book a seat in one of those and buy yourself a nice meal from M&amp;S to take on the train , the difference comes down only to the difference in seat size .
Given a train + plane TGVAir journey , it seems that taking the train is mandatory to validate the electronic plane ticket for the second leg of the journey . Quoting from <URL> : J’ai raté mon train ou je souhaite me rendre directement à l’aéroport . Que se passe-t-il ? Si votre voyage commence par un trajet en train , il est impératif de vous présenter en gare de départ au comptoir TGV AIR pour valider votre billet électronique . Dans le cas contraire , la compagnie aérienne se réserve la possibilité d'annuler l'ensemble de votre réservation , avec une pénalité pouvant aller jusqu ' à 100 % du montant de votre billet . Which roughly translates to : I missed my train and I plan to travel directly to the airport . What happens next ? If your trip begins with a train journey , it is mandatory to present yourself at the departure station TGV AIR counter to confirm your e-ticket . Otherwise , the airline reserves the right to cancel your entire reservation , with a penalty of up to 100 % of the cost of your ticket .
There are political reasons behind this and I believe that this is n't the appropriate website to discuss this . Anyway , you can find cheaper rail and air tickets for the BCN-MAD route . Try with <URL> for instance . This website returns prices for airlines and Renfe trains . I 've tested for you some dates and you can fly for less than 30 euros and go by train for less than 40 euros . For example , on february 21th go by air is 27 euros ( Vueling ) and go by rail is 32 euros ( renfe ) . So , the response is : going by high speed train is very expensive but " slow " train has a reasonable price .
The way I see this , you will need a Schengen visa in any case and therefore need to apply for one either from Spain or the Netherlands following the usual rules . The fact that you are also going to Bulgaria does not change that and Bulgaria obviously is n't the country where you are staying the longest within the Schengen area . And once you have a Schengen visa , I do n't see any point in getting a Bulgarian one as well ( provided you satisfy all relevant rules as far as Bulgaria is concerned -- I assume this could mean staying less than X days , not working , having sufficient means , documentation of your return trip , etc. ) . On the other hand , IANAL and I never went to Bulgaria on a Schengen visa so I have no personal experience to report .
I was in the same situation a year ago . It took me about 4 weeks to receive my Passport in the mail . Keep in mind , that you will need to send your original birth certificate with your passport application so you will be without that while you wait . According to Consular Affairs , it takes 4-6 weeks for routine service but you can opt for expedited service . All things considered , I would say begin applying for your passport at least 2 months in advance of your travel date . Any later , and you may be cutting it close . <URL>
The fare basis is the airline 's identifier of your exact air fare . This is usually an impenetrable looking 7-to-8 letter string like . The extended version of this is the fare construction , which adds in key details like what flight from where to where this air fare is for . The fare class is simply the first letter of the fare basis , which identifies <URL> and often maps directly to how many frequent flyer miles you 'll get for the flight . This is also known as booking class or , confusingly , ticket class . Finally , travel class is the class of the physical seat you end up in on the plane : first , business , premium economy , economy , etc. . An illustrated example of all four for the same ticket , from long to short : Fare construction : ( Cape Town on Turkish Airways transfer at Istanbul on Turkish Airways to New York City $ 406.06 for fare basis TA2PXOW ... ) Fare basis : Fare class : , <URL> Travel class : Economy
The <URL> says Bus number 25 connects the Quimper Cornouaille Airport to the town centre of Quimper in less than 30 minutes . The bus station is located outside the airport . <URL> is the official site of the bus service , it seems french only but there is a nice route calculator which is n't hard to use and it helps to plan the trip in great detail .
Yes . When you land in DF , you will be required to clear immigration and customs with all of your luggage , then re-check any checked bags , and re-clear security . I have done this before , and my girlfriend just did it last week ( LHR - > MEX - > GDL ) . When things are running smoothly , it should n't take more than an hour to do all of that . But if you have checked luggage , and there is a delay in unloading the luggage , for instance , or it 's a particularly busy time of day , it make take longer . It 's always better to plan on the side of too much time than too little , IMO . I would want at least 2 hours between flights , and would feel more comfortable with 3 . More than 4 and you 'll just be killing time ( although I have learned not to mind that , if I carry a good book ) . Also keep in mind that MEX is a large airport , and depending on where your arrival and departure gates are located , you may spend as much as 20-30 minutes just walking between gates .
Based on the way they organize the filters : Air Conditioning Only Climate Control Only Air Conditioning and Climate Control Climate Control and Ceiling Fan I would say that " climate control " refers to heating . So you have : rooms that have only AC rooms that have only heat rooms that offer heat and AC rooms with heat and ceiling fans for " cooling " Addendum - - - Since everyone was getting off these computer controlled thermostats type answers , I emailed the source , Expedia customer service . Their reply ... ' Climate control is the proper heating and ventilation . It has a capacity to blow warm air or ventilate by letting in air at ambient temperature . '
The booking class is the basis for the fare you paid . Within the ' economy ' ticket section , there are different fare " classes " , A , B , C , D , etc , that have different price levels and a certain number of tickets allocated . Different fare classes can also affect what types of rights you have - like if it 's refundable or changeable . So you could have 20 tickets in class D at $ 100 , 30 tickets in class C at $ 150 , and so on . But perhaps also buying class C means that you 're allowed to change the date of your ticket . Additionally , some types of booking class are ineligible to earn miles , generally the very cheapest . The pricing for tickets is not alphabetically ordered . For most airlines F means full-fare first class , Y means full-fare economy or economy plus/extra , and C or J can be full-fare business . According to <URL> , the Blue1 booking classes : G/K/L / O/T/U / W are not eligible for miles . If you order online you should have received an email confirmation with an invoice/receipt that states your booking class somewhere and the level of refunds/changes you can receive . I 'd check your booking confirmation first .
Protected Areas Internationally speaking , both natural parks and natural monuments are defined as protected areas , which , according to <URL> , means : A protected area is a clearly defined geographical space , recognised , dedicated and managed , through legal or other effective means , to achieve the long term conservation of nature with associated ecosystem services and cultural values . The ICUN states that this is the most widely used definition internationally . Indeed , any protected area listed on the <URL> must comply with it . Regulatory Categories Moreover , the <URL> , in which we can find natural parks and natural monuments : Category Ia -- Strict Nature Reserve Category Ib -- Wilderness Area Category II -- National Park Category III -- Natural Monument or Feature Category IV -- Habitat/Species Management Area Category V -- Protected Landscape/Seascape Category VI -- Protected Area with sustainable use of natural resources These categorical distinctions provide guidelines to the purpose and regulation to be applied to different areas . Quoting from the ICUN website : II : National Park Similar to the objectives of Wilderness Areas , National Parks provide protection for functioning ecosystems , but tend to be more lenient with human visitation and the supporting infrastructure . National Parks are managed in a way that may contribute to local economies through promoting educational and recreational tourism on a scale that will not reduce the effectiveness of conservation efforts . The surrounding areas of a National Park may be for consumptive or non-consumptive use , but should nevertheless act as a barrier for the defence of the protected area 's native species and communities to enable them to remain sustainable in the long term . III : Natural Monument or Feature These are comparatively smaller areas that are specifically allocated to protect a natural monument and its surrounding habitats . Natural Monuments or Features can be natural in the wholest sense , or include elements that have been influenced or introduced by humans . The latter should hold biodiversity associations or could otherwise be classified as a historical or spiritual site , though this distinction can be quite difficult to ascertain . As such , The classification then falls into two subcategories , those in which the biodiversity in uniquely related to the conditions of the natural feature , and those in which the current levels of biodiversity are dependent on the presence of the sacred sites that have created an essentially modified ecosystem . Natural Monuments or Features have a high cultural or spiritual value which can be utilised to gain support for conservation challenges . USA National Monuments and Parks <URL> , in the USA the difference between a national park and a national monument lie in the fact that the former can be declared by the President of the USA , without him having to seek the approval of Congress . In terms of the general general regulatory differences between monuments and parks in the USA , I think that a a single answer can not be formulated . This is partly due to the fact that protected areas in the USA are not managed by a single entity . Indeed some are county - , other are state-managed . Moreover , some protected areas are used for commercial exploitation . <URL> Bottom line is that different areas have different rules , so always check in advance . As a final thought I would say that the USA regulations tend to follow the guidelines set by the ICUN . For example , this is true for national parks , which are often not only open to tourists but also " exploitable " ( fishing , camping , etc. ) .
I frequently go to Edinburgh for a few weeks till the end of July because I take groups of students there for language courses . What I have learnt from these stays is that no summer is exactly the same as the previous one . Last year we had good weather , with few rainy spells ( we even went to sunbathe at Portobello Beach , where I got sunburnt ! ) . This year is likely to be cooler , as winter and spring were colder and rainier than the previous year . In 2009 it rained quite a lot , so that it was difficult to keep one 's clothes dry , and we had problems with eternally wet shoes ( the problem was overcome by wearing flip-flops because it was much easier to dry one 's feet rather than one 's sneakers ) . My advice to you then is to pack a bit of everything , meaning t-shirts ( both long and short sleeved ) which you can wear one on top of the other if need be , a pair of jeans but also shorts , certainly a sweatshirt or pullover and a rainproof jacket , sneakers and sandals/flipflops , and , why not ? swimwear as well if you think you 'll have time to go to the beach . What is important is that you can put on garments in layers , and be ready to take them off when the sun comes out . That 's the way I 'll pack myself tomorrow , as I 'm leaving for Edinburgh on Friday morning . Enjoy your stay !
If you are choosing between a business or first MileSAAver or an economy AAnytime , the only reason to choose AAnytime is to maximize your flexibility in changing flights . An AAnytime award can be changed essentially any time until the day of departure with no penalty , provided there is a seat available , whereas to change a MileSAAver flight , there would need to be MileSAAver availability on the new flight and you would be assessed a $ 150 change fee . The incidental costs and benefits at the airport would be roughly the same . But flying in the premium cabin means a better in-flight experience , and on intercontinental routes you would also be comped access to the Admirals Club . AAnytime awards are generally treated as full-fare ( Y ) tickets . An AAnytime economy ticket , for example , will include <URL> and a Priority AAccess boarding pass . You can also request seats in the Main Cabin Extra seats or Preferred Seats for no charge . There are no fees for any changes to your flight , although there is a fee for redeposit ( unless they are from an account with AAdvantage Executive Platinum status ) . They differ in that award tickets of any kind can not be endorsed , do not earn miles or Q-miles , and can not be upgraded . MileSAAver awards have all the above restrictions and lack all the benefits , and are subject to tight capacity controls to boot . They do incur a change fee if you alter your routing ( again , unless the miles come from an Executive Platinum account ) , though not if you keep the same routing and merely change your travel dates . A MileSAAver economy ticket is like a discount economy ticket ; it does not get the baggage and priority boarding benefits . But as you have found , a MileSAAver business or domestic first ticket costs the same number of AAdvantage miles as an AAnytime economy ticket . Flying in a premium cabin also gets you a baggage allowance and Priority AAccess , a priority checkin line at the airport , plus an invitation to the airport club if you are on an intercontinental flight , not to mention a seat that is going to be at least as comfortable as any Preferred Seat in economy . Given my travel patterns , I will always opt for a restricted premium cabin ticket over an unrestricted main cabin ticket when they cost the same .
Ryanair only sells one-ways or returns so the only case is missing your first flight and still wanting to take the return . That is possible without any actions necessary on your part as stated <URL> : You do n't need to notify us if you are unable to travel and if you ca n't use your outbound flight you can still use your return flight . So yes , if you miss the first flight you can still take the return flight and no , there is no sequential use of flight coupons rule .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
If you have not already credited your past flights to any program , you may be in luck , as according to the <URL> : How can I claim my missing Qmiles with partners ? Only missing Qmiles requests for airline partner transactions will be accepted by Privilege Club . Please write to membersvc@qmiles.com with copies of your ticket and boarding pass . Claims can be made up to 30 days prior to the date of joining Privilege Club for new members and within 180 days after the date of travel for existing members . So if your BA flight was within the last 30 days , you can join the QR Privilege Club program and request credit for it . You can use the " <URL> " to determine how many miles or points you would be entitled to , which will be based on the fare class you booked into . However , airlines give miles for partner flights begrudgingly , so it is possible they will decline your request , especially if you tend to fly discount economy . Some investment of time with customer service may be required . If you have already credited the flight as BA Avios or to another program , you are out of luck ; " double-dipping " is prohibited by most programs , including Qatar 's -- after all , they are trying to promote exclusive loyalty . The Privilege Club Terms and Conditions <URL> 7.4 You can not earn Qpoints if the flight is already credited in another loyalty programme . Qatar Airways reserves the right to deduct any Qpoints if the same flight is credited for the purposes of tier status accrual or with miles , points or any other form of redeemable credits/mileage on any other loyalty programme . and 8.6 Qatar Airways and any Partner may place restrictions on your mileage accrual . You can not earn Qmiles if the flight or Transaction is already credited in another loyalty programme . Qatar Airways reserves the right to deduct any Qmiles if the same flight or Transaction is credited with miles , points or any other form of redeemable credits/mileage on any other loyalty programme . Moreover , BA is a dead-end program ; there are currently no partners through which you can transfer miles out . Indeed , it is almost impossible to transfer miles out of major airline programs now , and as calculators like the <URL> demonstrate , the few existing options are at truly ruinous exchange rates .
The prices for regional trains between Aachen and Cologne are set by the transport association VRS ( <URL> ) . A single trip costs 17 $ per person . A four-trip ticket is available for 61.20 $ , a day ticket for unlimited travel 28.50 $ for one person , 41 $ for five persons . All these tickets are available last-minute at the train station . Other alternatives would be : Schöner-Tag-Ticket-NRW : Valid for a day in all regional trains of North Rhine-Westphalia ( including this route ) for 29 $ one person , 42 $ five persons . Using inter-city trains ( there are n't many ) . This costs 22 $ per person per direction for a flexible ticket . Non-flexible tickets might be available on <URL> for 19 $ one person or 29 $ two persons ( per direction ) if booked early . So in conclusion : For two persons returning on the same day a VRS fare level 7 day group ticket for 41 $ is the cheapest option . The ticket is also valid for all busses and other transport in Aachen and Cologne on that day . As this ticket is valid for five persons you might be able to find three other persons for sharing one leg of the ticket at the station .
I am currently in Skopje in Macedonia and there is a 6am bus to Thessaloniki every Monday , Wednesday and Friday <URL> No trains at the moment .
It 's called SAPSAN , there are 7 trains in both directions Saint-Petersburg > Moscow and Moscow > Saint-Petersburg . Here is link to <URL> ( <URL> ) Prices are <URL> ( <URL> ) . There are business and economy class tickets available . The average journey is no longer than 4 hours in one direction . All trains serve every day except train 154 ( runs only on Mondays and Saturdays ) .
As for your alternative question on " how to get the cheapest fare in Thalys " : the b-europe . com website offers a <URL> . For each date , it shows the price of the cheapest tickets still available on that date . The cheapest possible fare for a trip from Liège-Guillemins to Paris Nord seems to be $ 29 . These are always " Non Flex " tickets ( color coded in green ) meaning there 's no possibility of exchanges or refunds . There might be cheaper tickets because there 's a color code for " Promo " tickets ( yellow ) , but I 'm not seeing any on the fare calendar now ( I 'm not sure I ever have for the routes I 've booked ) . You can always book up to three months in advance , so today April 7th , you can book tickets up to July 7th . For that date , the cheapest offers I 'm currently seeing are : I 'm not sure about the Liège-Paris route , but in my experience with other routes , these offers do n't last long , especially if you do n't want to travel on a very early or very late train . So your best bet is to book exactly three months in advance .
end question
start question
8-hour stop over in Mauritius MRU - can I exit the airport ?
Timatic ( the visa system used by most airlines ) does not mention any requirements to show details of accommodation . Many countries will ask for details of accommodation on entry , generally as one of their multiple check to confirm you are a legitimate tourist , and that you will be staying in approved accommodation . In your case , you will be able to show your airline ticket and/or boarding pass for your same-day outgoing flight , so showing accommodation details would not only be silly , but would actually be an indication they you were NOT intending to leave the country as planned , which would be far more of an issue ! If you are asked to provide your accommodation details in writing just put " In Transit " . If you are asked verbally , just show your boarding pass . Either way , you 'll be fine ! Note that citizens of some countries do require a visa to enter Mauritius . If you are from one of these countries you will require a visa to enter the country - even if only for 8 hours !
Looking only at the legal aspects of this - and not at the suitability or recommendation of any particular walk . In England and Wales , you can walk on any public right of way , or on any open access land . Public Rights of Way include footpaths , bridleways , and byways . As a walker , you can go on any of those . You can get information on all of those from the Ordnance Survey , who 've got a useful <URL> giving the differences in more detail . You can <URL> from them for the areas you 're interested in , both digitally and in print . The print versions will also be available in common walking areas in local outdoor shops , newsagents and the like , as well as in bookstores ( <URL> in Covent Garden is particularly well known for maps and travel guides ) . You can also see OS maps for free via <URL> - the key is <URL> . But mobile reception in the hills can be sketchy , and it 'll be best to take an offline map of some description . Rights of way also include most roads . And , of course , you can walk on most roads - with the exception of Motorways , and any other roads where it 's explicitly banned . As a cyclist , you 're not allowed on footpaths . But you 're allowed on bridleways and byways , cycle paths and most roads . Open Access Land includes land above 600m , moors , heaths , Forestry Commission land and more . The <URL> describe what is now called the Right to Roam on this land . Broadly speaking , you can walk anywhere on it , and enjoy limited forms of outdoor recreation ( having a picnic is ok , swimming , cycling , camping , playing an organised game , lighting a fire are all banned - amongst many other things ) , Ordnance Survey maps show this land in a pale yellow colour , and <URL> have a definitive online map . As a cyclist , you do n't get free rein to go anywhere on Open Access Land - you 've got to stick to bridleways , byways and cycle paths .
You can just cross through these zones . No extra visa required . There may be checkpoints where the Israeli army will have a look at your passport or scan your bags ( such as e.g. the Bethlehem checkpoint ) . But on some road blocks they may just wave you through ( such as e.g. on the road 90 in the Jordan valley ) . It all depends on the current situation ... In any case , take your passport . All this is true for the West Bank . Gaza is a different matter . But anyway the random tourist from far away does not want to go there . It is also worthwhile to know that the biggest part of the West Bank remains under Israeli control ( see below ) . The city of Bethlehem is for instance one of the few places under full control of the Palestinian authority ( Area A ) whereas East Jerusalem is under full Israeli control ( Area C ) . Further reading <URL> <URL> <URL>
The airlines will not care ; they might call out your name a few times - but they will consider you a no-show . As far as immigration is concerned , as long as you have a valid visa for the US , they also do not care . So , the answer to your question is : No , you do n't have to notify the airline . The immigration will not have problems . They might ask you why you stayed , and if so , you should just tell them the truth . The only thing that raises eyebrows is if you pay cash for a one-way ticket at the last minute . So , try to pay for your final trip online with a credit card or book it through an agent .
As far as I know , no . You do need a place to stay however , right ? As you correctly mention , no official sources mention the requirement of a hotel booking . The relevant text from TIMATIC is given in <URL> and no hotel booking is mentioned . <URL> does not mention it and neither does the <URL> or <URL> . He does mention however : The agents at the airports know next to nothing about the 72-hour visa-free transit rule . And I 've come to make similar experiences . Stand your ground , ask for a supervisor or read the rules on their screen with them if necessary . However you do have to stay somewhere when in China and you do have to put down an address on your <URL> at immigration . This could be any address but I would n't just make one up . <URL> , which is done by the hotel if you stay there , or if you stay with a friend they have to go to the police station to register you ( even though I know of a lot of couchsurfers/airbnb hosts skipping this step ) . ( Finally , it is not a " 72 hour transit visa " but a " transit without visa " . )
First , make sure you are allowed to leave the airport with your passport/visa . Visa on arrival is available for many countries , but costs US$ 28 for 30 days . But that 's only certain countries , other ones are more complicated . <URL> is limited , but suggests the following sites : The Museum of Islamic Art , Doha Souq Waqif : the traditional old marketplace of Qatar . Has many good restaurants , especially at night time . Also sells many national products - bargaining is recommended . The Pearl : a man-made island connected to Doha by a bridge . You can find a big variety of restaurants and shops , mainly in the high range . Villaggio Mall : a spectacular Venetian style shopping mall with a canal and gondolas as well . A huge variety of shops from casual to luxury . Mathaf : The arab museum of modern art Katara : Cultural village which is home to many international and Arab restaurants , a beautiful beach , and holds many cultural events . Definitely a place to see . Aqua park : Aquatic Funfair . Personally I 'd see maybe one thing , do it properly , and then go hunt out strange foods and experiences . Middle Eastern cuisine is everywhere , and in many forms -- kebabs , breads , hummus , the list goes on . Do n't be afraid to venture into the Souqs looking for a meal ; it will be a unique experience in an authentic setting , and although some of the places you see may look rundown , that 's just the area in general , and the food will be probably be quite good . Be advised that many of the restaurants in the Souqs ( as well as the shops ) shut down during the afternoon hours . If you are in a funny kind of mood , you can try a McArabia -- McDonald 's Middle Eastern sandwich available only in the region . -- <URL> Another thing that I did in Dubai , and apparently they offer in Qatar as well is dune-bashing - riding around in big Landcruisers across the desert - it was AMAZING fun ! However , after my suggestion of it to a relative went bad - do n't do it if you get at all carsick ;)
Easy , since I 've done this trip . In Yekaterinburg , go to the markets and get some base food . Whatever drinks you want , but vodka will be good to share if you 're the sharing type ( especially in platzkart class ) . Water too , especially in summer . You 'll want snacks , try and not take anything smelly ( Strong cheese , fish that might smell in heat ) . I highly recommend ' fistashkis ' ( ok I 'm awful at transcribing cyrillic from memory ) but basically that 's pistachio nuts . They take a good long time to eat , which is great for such a long trip . If you 're like me , you 'll stop in Novosibirsk for 4 hours . I ca n't remember if that was my choice , or if that was compulsory , but I 'd been there before and wanted to see what I remembered . Immediately outside the train station you turn right up the hill and there is a supermarket a couple of blocks up on the left for resupply . Now , the two things nobody told me which would have been handy . Take a mug , for making tea on the train . There 's usually a place near the provodnik where you can do this . Also next to their room is a sign indicating each stop , and how long you have there . This is invaluable . Look for the stops that are 10 minutes or longer , and be ready to hop off . Almost inevitably , there 'll be a crowd of sellers with drinks , snacks and the like to resupply you on your journey . You 'll get to try all sorts of random foods that you wo n't know the name of - but it 's totally worth doing . And good to share with people in your carriage ! Bonus : Randomly just over the bridge from the station ( and about 3 more blocks ) in Irkutsk is a Papa John 's pizza . Go figure !
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
As has been pointed out by several people in the comments , your question is similar to the question <URL> , and indeed that question does give some relevant advice - however there is a little bit more to it in this case . Priority Pass currently have 4 lounges available at LHR - A ServisAir lounge in each of terminals 1 and 3 , the No 1 Heathrow lounge in terminal 3 , and the Air Canada Arrivals Lounge in Terminal 3 . The first 3 of these lounges are AIRSIDE , and thus the " shopping " question above will give you your answer - you can not access them from terminal 5 . The last lounge - the Air Canada lounge - is LANDSIDE , and thus presuming you are able to enter the UK ( ie , you have a relevant visa and/or do not require a visa ) then at first it may appear that you could go through immigrations , and then catch the bus to terminal 3 to access this lounge . However , unfortunately , that 's not the case . The Air Canada lounge only allows access for Priority Pass customers who are arriving on a flight that arrives into terminal 3 . As you arrived into terminal 5 you will NOT be allowed access this lounge . So unfortunately , no , you will not be able to access any of the lounges in terminal 1 or 3 .
Enjoy a nice lunch at one of the restaurants . 3 hours at any international airport is not enough time to leave . 30-60 minutes to deal with immigration , same again on the return ( security , be at gate 30 minutes before departure etc. etc. ) leaves you with an hour . Given HKG 's location you wo n't be going anywhere .
Yes you could I guess but I am not sure I would do it , for two reasons : Timing I made a quick ideal case scenario : <URL> <URL> your time in the city 30min back to the airport by train 1h again at the airport 30min last call for boarding before departure time which leaves you with ca. 2h by my calculations to see the city . However that was a best-case scenario and your calculation could go wrong at any time above : delays of your incoming flight queues at immigration and/or security questions at immigration once the tracks where blocked on my train into the city and I waited 30min on the train stopped at a station before resorting to alternative means get lost in Frankfurt I am a fairly risk-averse person and honestly would not do it unless I had an important errand to run and could fall back on taking a taxi back in case , but this is up for your judgement . If you do go , plan ahead every detail , i.e. what terminal you arrive , how to get into town , where to get off , where to walk around , when and how to get back , ... Attractiveness Personally I do n't find Frankfurt that attractive for a visit and if I had a friend come to Germany and could show them only one place , it would be among the last to come to my mind , but hey , you might have only this chance to see Germany and it is better than nothing . Have a look at <URL> beforehand and plan how to get around . Alternatively , sometimes ( and only sometimes ) you get pretty good views of the " skyline " at take-off and landing , <URL> .
The $ 40 Airport Departure Tax is already included in most air tickets . Years ago , each traveler paid the tax to a designated tax collector at the airport and got a stamp or ticket signifying they had paid the tax . This was actually pretty common at airports all over the world , but now most airlines collect the tax as part of the ticket price , then forward the money to the appropriate government . If you can find the full fare breakdown for your ticket , you will likely see a number of different departure taxes and passenger service charges from governments and airports along your route .
I know somebody in a similar situation to you : she lived illegally in the US for some years , and many years later she wanted to return as a tourist . Although she would otherwise have been eligible for the Visa Waiver Program , her local US Consulate recommended that she apply for a visa because of her history . She got a visa and visited the US without any problems . When applying for the visa you will be asked whether you have ever overstayed in the past ; you can answer yes to this and still get a visa , but if you lie and get found out you almost certainly wo n't .
Right after security checks ( at least in the terminal I used ) there were two changing rooms that are probably used for extra security checks . I asked the security staff if I could use it to get changed and their response was " sure , of course " so I went ahead and did . Indeed nobody even seemed to care . The changing room featured a chair , enough space and was very clean . <URL> Alternatively let me propose a solution here that has not been mentioned yet : Go to a clothing store in the airport shopping area , find a sales clerk that is free and ask politely if you could use their changing rooms for a second to change your clothes . No guarantee that it 'll work but you can try at least .
Another dual-citizen Kiwi here . Our government actually has pages on this , and whilst it 's fine for you to travel on either passport , it 's best to enter NZ when you return on your NZ passport - otherwise you 're not technically a resident , and would have to have a visa and so on . The relevant links : <URL> <URL> although the first one is really the one applicable to you .
In general , there 's no price difference for checking in at the airport or via any other means , although there can be price differences for other services ( eg baggage charges ) depending on where you pay for them - more on that below . There are , however , a small number of exceptions in the form of Low-Cost Carriers ( LCCs ) who are interested in squeezing every last possible cent out of you to make up for the low initial ticket price . Ryanair is the best known offender here , charging # 60 / $ 60 per person ( depending on the departure location ) to print/reprint your boarding pass at the airport . Spirit Airlines in the US also charges , but the fees are a little more sensible at $ 2 - $ 5 per person . The airline should list these fees on their website , so if you 're flying a LCC it 's certainly worth checking beforehand . Where many airlines do charge differently depending on where you pay for it is for check baggage - paying in advance will often be cheaper than paying at the airport . Normally you can still pay the baggage fees online and then check-in at the airport for no additional fee - as long as you 've paid the checked bag fee in advance . Spirit is ( again ! ) one of the best example of this - from November , taking a carry-on bag onto one of their flights will cost you $ 35 if paid in advance , $ 50 if done at check-in , and $ 100 if done at the gate ! Most other carries are not quite so high , but most LCC and even many normal carriers will have different prices for checked bags at the airport vs in advance .
I ca n't prove a negative , but as far as I can tell by looking at the sites of A-Line and Marix , the answer is no , they do n't offer any sort of hop-on-hop-off ticket , nor do you get any " stopovers " if you buy a longer ticket . There 's a third option from Amami to Kagoshima , the once-weekly <URL> via the tiny and obscure <URL> ( long on my personal to-do list ) , but this costs even more at & yen ; 11,620 one-way .
Midway is very walkable , though there 's a good bit of traffic so the surrounding areas are n't the nicest place to walk , but there are exits and sidewalks . You might exit directly from the terminal onto Cicero , but there are few options where you could both wait comfortably in case of rain or snow or where a car could safely stop out of traffic . A good option is to follow the signs to the CTA Station " Trains to City / Trains to Loop " ( straight ahead as you exit the terminal , do n't forget to go downstairs right after you exit the secure area to get your check luggage , if any ) . At the Midway CTA station you can exit to the bus boarding area , you can cross it to <URL> that does n't have controlled access . This location is just down the street from the Chill With Us Yogurt Cafe but saves you having to cross the road .
<URL> is easily reachable by foot from the train station - just follow Karl Johans gate ( " gate " is Norwegian for " street " , not an actual gate ) . <URL> is a nice place to watch the harbour . <URL> is also nearby if you 're interested . <URL> from 1290 and the <URL> should fit the " ancient architecture " ticket <URL> nicely .
Although in everyday usage they are interchangeable , they refer to two entirely different concepts : direct flight denotes any routing between two points with a single flight number , with one or more stops along the way . For example , United 803 flies IAD-BKK via NRT . nonstop flight denotes air travel between two points with no scheduled intermediate stops . For example , United 645 is JFK-SFO with no stops . In the past , a direct flight usually involved a single aircraft making multiple stops , in contrast to a connecting flight , in which you would leave one flight for another on a different aircraft . In the present , however , any such distinction is gone . United 951 ostensibly operates BRU-IAD-ORD , but you will not be on the same aircraft -- there will be a " change of gauge " at IAD just as if it were an ordinary connecting flight . Direct flights are tricky for frequent flyers . For one , most airlines compute your frequent flyer mileage based on distinct flight numbers , not on distinct flight segments . For flying BRU-IAD-ORD , you 'd expect to be awarded 3893 miles for BRU-IAD and another 589 for IAD-ORD for a total of 4482 ; however , if you fly " direct " on UA951 , you will receive only 4160 , as if you had taken the nonstop . Another problem is in clearing upgrades . The BRU-IAD segment may have an upgrade available , whereas the IAD-ORD segment is sold out ; however , you will not be given the upgrade because space must be available on the entire BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary . If you had flown the identical BRU-IAD-ORD itinerary but with two different flight numbers , you would have received the full mileage as well as the transatlantic upgrade . Why do airlines continue to market direct flights ? For the same reason they market codeshares : to make it seem as if they have service where they do not . Because such flights used to be on a single aircraft , the reservations systems weighted them as more preferable : request flights between two cities and they would return nonstops at the top , then direct , then connections . Since travel agents tended to pick flights that appear at the top of results , an airline offering a direct flight would likely get more sales than another which offered the identical itinerary as a connecting flight .
end question
start question
Do I need a visa if I travel from Paris to Amsterdam if I entered as Crew Member ?
After some inspection and asking few crew members . It turns out that if you enter any country within the Schengen area as a crew member then you can move within the Schengen area . Make sure you have your passport and a copy of the crew members General Declaration . UPDATE : I went to Amsterdam and came back , I asked the police at the station in Paris and he said it 's ok . Anyway no one stopped me or asked me . All went smooth just like a domestic trip .
To clarify things beforehand , liability insurance is not generally needed for bicycling in Lithuania ( to the best of my knowledge ) , but to use the services of Cyclocity Vilnius . <URL> Your responsibility [ ... ] Make sure you have third party liability insurance , which is mandatory in order to use the service . Liability insurance is generally very good to have so my first recommendation would be for you to get one in your home country or country of residence ( you indicate Belarus ) and make sure that the terms &amp; conditions also cover your travel to Vilnius . Otherwise you could try to purchase a liability insurance just for travel . You will likely still be better off with offers from Belarus but you could also try with international providers . The first hit googling for " liability insurance for travel " gives me this ( apparently American , but targeting internationally ) <URL> ( no affiliation ) , I am sure there are many more upon a more thorough search . Alternatively , I found two other providers of bike rental in Vilnius ( they also offer bike tours ) : <URL> <URL> They do not mention need of a liability insurance but be aware that the system is different from Cyclocity ( which is similar to Velib in Paris , i.e. you can drop and take bikes at/from several stations in town ) and you rent a bike e.g. for the day . Finally - though this is not recommended and only my assumption - I do not believe that Cyclocity checks that you do have liability insurance . I would not know how to prove mine , I do not carry around my contract when traveling . And if you do get in trouble , you are in double trouble .
Most European airlines have carry-on baggage allowances per passenger not per ticket . But then again , if you really need that extra baggage on board you can buy a separate seat , such as Ryanair " item seat " option or the extra seat reservation offered by airBaltic . These options are very popular with people having to carry fragile items such as cameras , musical instruments , etc. . The rule of thumb is - if it fits in the overhead baggage compartment , and you can lift it there by yourself , it 's allowed . But if in doubt wheter your carry-on baggage will be allowed on board , you can consult with the airline prior to flight .
Like any country , a visa is just an endorsement allowing you a specific period of time in a country based on your citizenship ( and other potential factors ) . However , once you 're at the border , the border agents / authorities can and will still make a further assessment . They might evaluate : your ability to support yourself while in the country your intent in the country ( you might be on a tourist visa , but they suspect you 're coming to work/do business ) your possessions ( eg if found with something illegal ) your history ( some countries wo n't let you in if your passport shows you 've been to countries that they 're not fans of ) as a result , yes , even if you have a legitimate visa , it 's still possible ( generally unlikely , but possible ) for you to be rejected at the border . For another question we have which is related to this , see <URL>
Luggage can be collected by flyer only after clearing immigration and thus by buying visa . Fees is QAR 100 ( USD = 100 / ~ 3.65 ) , and can br paid only by card ( any , debit/credit , which will work with visa/mastercard etc networks ) no cash allowed . Source : I live in Doha . Edit : The only certain thing is , if airline does the transfer of luggage from one leg to other , then you do n't need visa . If you , a.k.a Flyer need to collect it &amp; then check it in for next leg , then you need visa . Most probably if you get all the boarding passes at the start of your journey , most of the times it means your luggage is checked through all the way , and airline itself will do the luggage handling at transit airports .
De jure there are dozens of complex laws and regulations regarding remote employment , under which you may or may not need a special visa in order to work in a given country . Tax laws are an additional complication , where countries such as the UK can deem you as a tax resident for <URL> on British soil . De facto , as long as you do n't mention your remote job to immigration personnel at the airport , there 's a 99.99 % chance no one will ever find out . There are millions of people breaking the law by being employed at on-site jobs in any given country , so digital nomads are a pretty low priority for law enforcement .
No , you do n't : if you 've used your USA visa at least once , you can enter Georgia visa-free for 90 days . Foreign nationals who have a multiple entry US , EU or Schengen member states visas , which have validity for one year or more and had been used once at least , can enter or stay on the territory of Georgia without visa up to 90 days , within the validity term of the visa . Source : <URL>
You need to check with the hotel , not immigration . The hotel can report you as absconded and this will cause you all kinds of trouble when you exit the country . To be perfectly safe , I would check-in to the hotel that had the reservation , and then check-out later for my other hotel . There are rumors that hotels do report guests to immigration - but this is a post-fact reporting issue and as far as I know , there is no live link between the hotel and immigration . The reason I mention this is because frequently I have flown in for a day trip where I do n't book a hotel and this has caused no problems with immigration .
Just asked my Taiwanese friend . She said you have to apply for Tai BaoZheng which can easily be obtained in Taiwan through China Travel Agency . It normally takes 1-2 days . And you can also fly to China and get the Tai BaoZheng at the airport . However , not all airports have the equipments to do that you have to check with the embassy which airport can do that .
Yes , you probably should get insurance . <URL> : While medical care in Japan is good , English-speaking physicians and medical facilities that cater to U.S. citizens ' expectations are expensive and not widespread . Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan . ... Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan . So basically , if you 're hit by a bus or have a heart attack or something , you 're going to be stuck with a large bill and could potentially even be denied care . Japanese hospitals tend to be a bit overloaded , every now and then a case of somebody dying after being denied entry to multiple hospitals makes the news , and not having insurance is certainly not going to help . That said , simple doctor 's consultations and the like are quite inexpensive in Japan even if you foot the bill yourself . So I 'd look specifically for basic/catastrophic travel insurance that will cover you in cases of dire need , but has a high deductible/does not cover minor mishaps and thus has a lower premium .
Coming from India , you ca n't stay in Schengen as a tourist without a visa . That means you wo n't be allowed to stay after the 23rd . <URL> To those who tell you that nothing will happen if you over stay , I can tell you about my personal experience the first time I left Schengen : I overstayed because I thought I could stay 3 months instead of 90 days , and in those 3 months there were 91 days . I left on the day 91 and the border control noticed it immediately . They took me to a room for about 4 hours and made me endless questions : where have I been , what did I do , they asked me to prove all my stays and travels with tickets and receipts ( which fortunately I had with me at that time ) , they made me sign a paper telling me that a process would start against me through my embassy for overstaying and that I might denied the access to Schengen in the future . Finally , obviously , I lost the flight I was supposed to take . So I had to pay for a new flight right there in order to leave Schengen . You can bet that with this sort of behaviour they make really sure that you will not over stay again .
I am a business traveller from Britain , so I have never had to actually apply for a UK Visa , but my experience of similar situations says to me that you should n't refer to this as an interview but a ' meeting ' . During your visit you wo n't be being paid in the UK so you are n't a threat . Normally I arrive in a country as a ' general visitor ' because I am just ' meeting ' not ' working ' . You should also carry a printed version of the invitation to interview , contact details of the person you are visiting , exact details of where you are staying and preferably some means of showing that you are n't going to stay beyond . Part of proof is either showing that you have commitments back home ( e.g. already have a job , property lease or mortgage ) and that you have enough money to survive on ( have a recent bank statement showing you have money ) . Also make sure you have your return tickets and arrangements clear so they know you plan to return .
You can apply for a UK Visitor ( general ) visa in any country that you entered legally . The only stipulation is that you must remain outside of the UK while your application is being processed and there must be a designated issuing post in that country . Nationality of the applicant does not matter . This is covered in Paragraph 28 of the rules ... An applicant for an entry clearance must be outside the United Kingdom and Islands at the time of the application . An applicant for an entry clearance who is seeking entry as a visitor must apply to a post designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Subject to paragraph 28A , any other application must be made to the post in the country or territory where the applicant is living which has been designated by the Secretary of State to accept applications for entry clearance for that purpose and from that category of applicant . Where there is no such post the applicant must apply to the appropriate designated post outside the country or territory where he is living . Source : <URL> All UK posts in the Schengen zone ( including Visa Facilitation Centres ) are designated to accept visitor applications ( but they sent to and are processed at the hub in Paris ) . So France is ok and the answer to your question is YES . See Paragraph 41 of the rules for information on specific requirements . From a practical viewpoint as someone travelling in Europe , you may want to consider if you have all the needed evidence to hand and can do with not having your passport for a while . If not , then it may be better to wait .
Since there is apparently no " main destination " in your trip , your visa application should be processed by the first Schengen state you will enter , in your case Germany . This is from article 5 of the Schengen visa code ( Regulation ( EC ) No 810/2009 ) : The Member State competent for examining and deciding on an application for a uniform visa shall be : ( a ) the Member State whose territory constitutes the sole destination of the visit ( s ) ; ( b ) if the visit includes more than one destination , the Member State whose territory constitutes the main destination of the visit ( s ) in terms of the length or purpose of stay ; or ( c ) if no main destination can be determined , the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter the territory of the Member States . [ I highlighted the most important bit ] The border between Germany and Austria is an " internal border " , which is why there will be no systematic passport check when landing in Vienna . Frankfurt is where you will cross the external border to enter the Schengen area ( which is called " territory of the Member States " in the official regulation ) .
I did the same last year , I just printed the ticket page and took it along to Spain . No snail mail involved .
No , you do n't need a transcript . Here is the list of the requirements from the <URL> : A Form I-20 , endorsed for travel and signed by your DSO You have been out of the United States for less than five months A current passport valid for at least six months after the date of your reentry or , if you are from one of the countries listed below , a passport that is current through the date of entry A valid , current visa or you traveled to contiguous country or adjacent island for less than thirty days Financial information showing proof of necessary funds to cover tuition and living expenses If you are from a visa exempt country , you do not need a visa to reenter the United States from the western hemisphere , but make sure that you present your I-20 to be admitted as an F-1 student and not a visitor .
You should bring your passport , you do n't need anything in addition to this . Northern Ireland is part of the UK , so it 's a domestic trip with no " immigration " or similar . However , almost all airlines require passengers to have photo ID ( for their own commercial reasons - basically to ensure that person flying is the same as the person named on the ticket ) and a passport is the best form of photo ID for a non-European citizen to use .
Recycle the card however you wish . Those things are ephemeral and ca n't be used anyway after you check out and the hotel probably buys them in bulk . And by " ca n't be used " , I mean that your checkout date is encoded onto the card key and the room locks will reject any attempt to open the door past an expired checkout date in the same manner that you ca n't open someone else 's door while you are at the hotel ( or your own effin door half the time while you are still checked in ) . That does not mean these keys ca n't be re-programmed with new room or checkout information . If you pay attention you will see the desk clerk shove the room key into a small box with a numeric key pad and hit a few keys et voilà you have a freshly programmed key ready to use ( again ) . However if the key is physically damaged and wo n't take the reprogramming then the next stop is for it the rubbish bin . Here is a random link that claims to explain how these keys work <URL> This of course raises the question of how easy it is to program a key in order to enter a room that is not yours . The funny thing is that while obvious , this question is actually moot as it is trivial to attack the lock itself with a simple electronic tool that exploits a fundamental design flaw in the how the locks themselves are programmed . Such a tool allows you to open all such locks with ease . I 'll leave tracking down that exploit to the interested reader Hotels are aware of this flaw , but it is going to be a long time before they roll out new door locks for every door that uses this style of pass key . Especially as a lot of hotels ca n't even seem to keep up with regular maintenance of normal in-room equipment .
Australian Citizens do not require a visa when entering South Korea as a tourist . <URL> , Australian citizens no longer require a visa when entering for business purposes . A good source for visa requirements is the <URL> . For South Korea you will need to select " Korea ( Rep. of ) "
As long as you have a UK visa I do n't see why your expiring residence permit should matter . Make sure you enter the UK with the UK visa and not with the residence card .
end question
start question
Overnight wifi/shower facilities in Haneda airport ?
The showers are available on the Arrival Lobby on the Second Floor . Available 24 hours Fees ¥ 1,030 / 30min . ( with drink coupon ) ¥ 520 for each 15min . thereafter * As of April 1 , 2014 . Towels , shampoo , conditioner , body soap and dryer provided . <URL> WiFi is available in the terminal Steps for FREE wireless internet access are as follows : Choose the network ID ( ESS-ID ) " HANEDA-FREE-WIFI " on your PC or internet device . No WEP key is needed . Open your web browser . Procedures for the connection are indicated on the web browser . You must register your name and e-mail address . Enjoy free wireless broadband ! <URL>
In practice , as a transferring passenger on an international-international journey , your item is forfeit . If it is confiscated by airport security , then you can have it back if you decide not to travel by plane . You can not take it on a plane ( to anywhere ) . That includes back where you came from . If you do n't have a visa or a passport that allows you to enter China , then you will have to find another way to send your item to your destination . If you are a very important customer you may be able to put it in checked baggage by asking an airport worker for assistance , but if you do n't speak Mandarin I think you have almost no chance of succeeding .
Yes , the observation deck of Haneda 's international terminal is the public landside area and open to all . Incidentally , Narita stopped doing checks on entry some time ago , but even when they were doing them , they wanted only ID , not tickets . Plenty of people visit airports to meet or see off passengers .
Quote from the airport 's <URL> : Stamps and some packaging can be purchased from Relay on Level 1 . A mail box is located on level 1 of the main terminal building at the top of the escalator near the front doors in the check-in area . <URL> for Relay : 4.00 am - 8.00 pm Sunday - Friday 4.00 am - 7.00 pm Saturday
Johannesburg 's main airport is ' ORT ' , <URL> . The IATA code for ORT is JNB . Jo ' burg 's secondary airport is <URL> . Apparently , it 's calling itself ' international ' , but I 'm not quite sure there are actually international flights coming or going here . It is used by two budget carriers , though . Between the two , there is no real alternative when coming from abroad . You will arrive at ORT . I 've flown a dozen times or more to ORT and would say it 's safe . Beware of taxi drivers , though . They are , like perhaps everywhere else , notorious for trying to pull a fast one . Depending on where you need to go , your best bet is probably to take the <URL> to either Johannesburg or Pretoria .
AT&amp;T ca n't charge you to use WiFi . From the page you linked to , that 's talking about a service where you connect to WiFi somewhere ( like an airport ) that you might normally have to pay for , and the provider of that WiFi has partnered with AT&amp;T to allow AT&amp;T customers to log in and use the WiFi . This does not affect your ability to connect to any other public ( or private ) WiFi system , like a public library in London , your hotel in Hong Kong , or your friend 's house in Sydney . Phone company representatives are trained to encourage you to forget about actual public WiFi , and buy their expensive package to connect to their partners . There 's also the possibility that the customer representative you talked to is simply not technically knowledgeable and only knows about what they 've been told to say .
Ok , the comments have given a suggestion about booking another berth , which is impractical if you are concerned that the baby may actually roll over . Some practical tips to consider You can either book a first class or a 2-tier AC berth ( if you are travelling 3 tier AC already and are considering a second ticket for the kid , it may work out cheaper to do this ) , and ensure that you get a lower berth ( which is tough unless you book early ) , the berth in a 2-tier AC or First AC or First Class compartments are much wider than the one in other classes and can give enough room for the kid If you really want this substantiated you can see ( <URL> ) which has pictures and detailed measurements . If you like to be a bit bold and can convince co-passenger the way I did with a year old daughter you can look to replicate what I did . I used to make a cradle in between the seats , I will have to draw up something to explain ( and kindly forgive my horrible drawing ) , you tie a sufficiently long piece of cloth i.e. a saree or something that 's circa 2 metres long and tie it up to the top berth , since the train only shakes sideways this would actually provide a very comfortable journey to the kid ( if he is used to sleeping in those age old cradles made with a similar style at home it would be even better ) . <URL> The third option is to get two lower berths and actually carry a small flat cradle into the compartment and make the baby sleep in it , like this : <URL> I have only thought about this never did this for my travels . Happy sleeping
Yes . You can leave the airport . As a British citizen you do not need a visa to visit Iceland . Just be back in time to get through security before your flight leaves . You 'll need to be back at the airport at least one hour before departure . Update : When I originally wrote this answer , an hour was plenty of time for a passenger who already had a boarding pass to clear security and border control . Today , however , with the airport having become much more busy , you may need more than an hour if departing during peak travel hours . Especially during the summer months .
The short answer is that by regulation , the three-character IATA code for an airport in Canada generally corresponds to a three-character Transport Canada code ( TCLID ) , which in turn generally corresponds to the last three letters of its four-character ICAO airport code . So why do the ICAO codes for Canadian airports all start with CY or CZ ? That is murkier . When the process of assigning international airport codes began during World War II , it integrated many existing identifiers set up by airlines , weather stations , radio navigation beacons , railway terminal telegraph stations , and so on . According to a quotation in an <URL> ( take it for what you will , but it was the closest thing to a real citation I could find ) , Canada 's were based on existing weather service codes : Canada used two letters for identification of a weather reporting station . Additionally , preceding the 2-letter code , was placed a Y ( meaning " yes " ) where the reporting station was co-located with an airport , a W ( meaning " without " ) where the reporting station was not co-located with an airport , and a U where the reporting station was co-located with an NDB . An X was used if the last two letters of the code had already been taken by another Canadian ident , and a Z was used if the locator could be confused with a U.S. three letter ident . ( section 2.18 pg 64 ) I have also seen the theory advanced that the codes derive from radio transmitter identifers : ITU assigns the prefixes CF-CK , CY , and CZ to Canada , of which CY and CZ are reserved for transportation . CYYZ was the beacon at Malton , Ontario where Toronto Pearson International Airport is now located . On the other hand , airports like YQX and YYT have Canadian codes even though their corresponding radio callsigns would have had VA-VG or VO prefixes , the codes assigned for Newfoundland , which did not join Canada until 1949 . It 's possible that being closely tied to Canada , they used Canadian codes , or that they adopted new codes after confederation . It 's also possible that some airports were designated after weather stations and others from radio transmitters , and that at least some transmitter codes are based on weather station codes in turn .
I have called the bus companies and checked some testimonies on web and of my friends regarding the WiFi on this buses . I 'm glad to tell you that the 3 of them have the service , however it is not available for all the routes . Cruz del Sur : It has WiFi available for 80 % of the routes . It is not a fast connection but you can check email , and look at webpages ; but it would be a bad idea to use it for viewing YouTube videos and such . Ormeño : It has WiFi for their international routes . Oltursa : It has WiFi for only 50 % of destinations . Of course the WiFi service is only for the premium tickets so you will have to pay extra and speed is not that great . You have to know that 70 % of the internet users here in Peru only have 2Mb ... so it is going to be slow and possibly get disconnected during some hours in the trip .
Like you I only took chicken buses but there are some long distances options . For example from San Jose in Costa Rica you can go to Panama City ( 15 hours : 1pm or 10pm ) San Salvador ( 48 hours , 6am , 7:30 am ) or even Guatemala City ( 60 hours 6am , 7:30 am ) . However when looking at an <URL> it turns out the buses are stopping overnight in places in El Salvador and Nicaragua . It seems the only overnight route is from Costa Rica to Panama City . Of course there are options in the opposite direction as well . On of the main companies doing these routes is <URL> I never seen any domestic overnight bus routes , but then again I never looked for them . I have a rule ' No night buses '
There is further information ( in Japanese ) about the different levels on <URL> . The first image ( with the concentric circles showing different distances ) also has a bit more information about what facilities you do n't have access to . Level 2 : 1km exclusion zone around crater . No access to Mt. Aso Park Road ( 阿蘇山公園道路 ) , Mt Aso Ropeway ( 阿蘇山ロープウェイ ） , Sensuikyo Ropeway ( 仙酔峡ロープウェイ ) . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the closure of Mt. Aso Park Road basically removes access to all the near-crater facilities . I think the orange line on that map marks the current restriction . There is more information about the closure of Mt. Aso ropeway on <URL> ( English ) , and this would probably be the best source for seeing if things are open again as they seem to update regularly to let people know if they will be running . It appears that there has been damage on some of the roads/pathways in the area from earthquakes , including ones linked to Mt. Aso ropeway , so even if the volcanic alert level drops , you should double-check whether the areas you 're interested in are both open and accessible - this is especially true if you 're thinking of hiking in the area .
The showers are available on the Arrival Lobby on the Second Floor . Available 24 hours Fees ¥ 1,030 / 30min . ( with drink coupon ) ¥ 520 for each 15min . thereafter * As of April 1 , 2014 . Towels , shampoo , conditioner , body soap and dryer provided . <URL> WiFi is available in the terminal Steps for FREE wireless internet access are as follows : Choose the network ID ( ESS-ID ) " HANEDA-FREE-WIFI " on your PC or internet device . No WEP key is needed . Open your web browser . Procedures for the connection are indicated on the web browser . You must register your name and e-mail address . Enjoy free wireless broadband ! <URL>
Yes , at T1 ( International Terminal ) and T2 ( Domestic Terminal ) . I was there in 2011 but ca n't remember the details ( except that I did use internet connection at the airport ) . Anyway , <URL> is a good memory aid , and several tips from 2011 and 2012 say there 's indeed wifi available . <URL> : Free wifi all over with the " FREE WIFI BY EXPEDIA SYD " network . Just choose a destination and flight number . <URL> : You get free and fast wifi here ! <URL> : Free wifi in the international terminal ( T1 ) <URL> : Aquí el wifi gratis funciona !!! Update : The <URL> also confirms this : Free Wi-Fi is available throughout International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) . Sydney Airport now provides free Wi-Fi for all travellers at both the Domestic ( T2 ) and International ( T1 ) Terminals . You can use any Wi-Fi enabled device to connect including your laptop , smartphone or tablet . Simply select " Free Internet by sponsors name &amp; SYD " from the list of available networks , answer the questions , read the terms and conditions and click " Proceed " . You will be shown a sponsored message then directed to a website . From there you can browse the internet for up to 2 hours and 500MB of data . Coverage is provided throughout the entire International Terminal ( T1 ) and Domestic Terminal ( T2 ) .
Sleeping in airports is not uncommon when transiting through . Quite a few people stretch out and nap while waiting their next flight . But this is primarily in the transit areas , security often frowns on folks sleeping in the public area around the check in counters ( otherwise homeless folks would flock to the heated airport lobbies armed with a second hand suitcase ) . Both the Mecure Schipol and Yotel are inside the international transit area , so you ca n't access them until you check in for your flight . The Yotel was closed last September during renovation , not sure if it has reopened yet . The best bet is to book one of the other three on that website , since they are all within walking distance . Or look on a booking website like Agoda and pick a hotel that offers free airport shuttles .
tl ; dr It boils down to this : Are you travelling with family/kids ? Do you have a flexible budget ( able to consider more than the cheapest options ) ? Are you easily annoyed or frustrated while travelling ? Do you have onward travel once you have arrived in India ( by road , train , connecting flights , etc. ) ? If the answer to any of the above is YES , I would n't choose a late night flight . ... these flights are prone to unruly passengers , dirty aircraft , and so on . He even mentioned that these flights are called punishment flights by the crew , because no one wants to be on this flight . There is some truth to this . Keep in mind that there are a fair number of Indian labourers in Dubai . This group of people is always looking for the cheapest flights between Dubai and their destination in India . Consider the following factors : Your budget It all depends on what it is that you can afford . If you can afford to fly business class , you will receive good service on almost all airlines . Bear in mind that airlines like Air India will probably have more rowdy passengers in general and you probably do n't want to spend business class fare on such an airline . However , Emirates or Jet Airways will give you good service regardless of the flight times . Your destination It is relatively easy to find a variety of airline options if you are going to a major city like Mumbai , Bangalore or Delhi . However , if you are going to a second tier city like Goa or Pune , your options are limited to Air India and possibly a couple other airlines . Alternate starting points Sharjah airport is the closest international airport to Dubai and the airline that flies out of here is Air Arabia ( budget airline , popular choice among the labour class ) . However , you also have Abu Dhabi which has options like Etihad Airways . This one , like Qatar Airways offers good service - it is something to consider if you have a couple hours to spare and want to visit Abu Dhabi . So my question is : How bad is the situation really and is it worth to avoid these flights and fly other routes , even if these other flights might be a little bit longer or more expensive ? If you are a single traveller , it is easier for you to adapt to noisier and rowdier flights . If you are with family and kids , you probably want to have a more relaxed journey . All in all , I would say that you are better off choosing an airline like Jet Airways or Emirates at a non late night time . If you do n't , it is still just a 3 hour flight . However , if you are not familiar with India and are going there as a tourist , you want to save some energy for what might hit you when you get to India :) If you are not a tourist and are familiar with India , then you are probably used to rowdy people and should have no extra problems . Edit : a matter of perspective After reading the other answer , I feel it important to mention that what some people may think of as unruly and hectic , others may not . It is a matter of perspective . Since the OP mentions that they are originating in Europe , I think it is safe to assume that from a non-Indian tourist 's perspective , passengers on some of these flights tend to come across as relatively abrasive . I can say this out of personal experience - I am a non resident Indian who has lived in Dubai and now in Canada and travels to India once in a while . I find myself losing patience when travelling in India especially after having lived in Canada .
Cairo airport , along with every site in Egypt remotely connected to tourism , has ridiculous amounts of security , so you are in absolutely no physical danger . If you wait until morning , all that 's going to happen is that you 'll be stuck in a traffic jam on your way to the city ! What 's more , since the revolution , Cairo 's rather notorious unmetered taxis are no longer allowed at the airport . If you ignore touts , pick a cab off the rank and insist on the meter , you should be perfectly fine . ( Well , aside from the abysmal standards of Egyptian driving , but that 's another story . I still remember driving to the airport one night past the wreck of a BMW that had literally wrapped itself around a lamppost . ) All that said , if somebody is arranging a transfer for you , it 's presumably not going to be an ordinary taxi , but somebody known to whoever is sending them . So get them to stand outside Customs holding a placard with your name on it , and get their phone number as a backup in case you ca n't find them . ( Mild disclaimer : I have n't been back to Cairo since they opened the new terminal , but it was n't a particularly hard airport to deal with even before . )
The City of Munich operates a number of indoor ( and outdoor ) swimming pools in and around Munich . These pools are invariably fitted out with changing rooms and showers . There is no need to go swimming if you only want to use the shower , but you will still have to pay the entrance fee . You can peruse a list at <URL> . As for ' reasonable fee ' , swimming pools usually charge about EUR 5 to EUR 10 , depending upon location and facilities available ( e.g. , sauna ) .
According to <URL> : Showers - Location : Freshen ' Up International Terminal - landside , level G , Main Hall . Hours : 7:00 am - 11:00 pm . Fee : $ 15 for the Deluxe Shower ( 30 minute shower + 15 minute massage chair with towel , soap , shampoo , lotion , shower shoes , and a hairdryer if required ) / $ 8 for the Standard Shower ( 20 minute shower with soap and towel provided ) . Sleeping - Best sleeping spot Ive found so far is a lounge in Terminal 2 near Baggage Claim # 4 , with two padded benches each of which is big enough for you and the one you love .
The general ( worldwide ) trend is probably to extend VOA but since visa rules are in a constant state of flux buying a visa from a Consulate should provide some reassurance that you wo n't be declined boarding due to the withdrawal of a VOA facility . VOAs can be cheaper than visas via Consulates which are easy money , so not promoted as heavily ( eg by visa agencies ) -- may account for some of your ( understandable ! ) confusion . Tanzania however is not trying to discourage tourists and the fees are the same either way ( <URL> for a German citizen ) . Waits seem to vary roughly <URL> so if on a very tight timescale via Consulate might get you out of the airport a little sooner . Note that Tanzania are fussy about the age and condition of notes if paying in USD -- not an issue is buying the visa at a Consulate . Also that VOAs for Tanzania are only valid for arrival at certain <URL> . Elsewhere there is no VOA option . <URL> . <URL>
end question
start question
What are the food specialties of Charleston , South Carolina ?
What you 're after is <URL> - the cooking associated with the area . Appetizers , soups , and salads Meat and seafood Rice Sides Wikipedia goes on to explain that the geography is the main factor in distinguishing the region 's culinary identity from other areas of the South . There 's an abundance of shrimp , fish , crabs , and oysters in the estuary system , and the marshlands of South Carolina are also conducive to growing rice , and that grain has become a major part of the everyday diet over time .
<URL> and <URL> are both dishes with great variety , available with meat as well as seafood . Then there 's <URL> and <URL> , various <URL> , <URL> , vegetarian sushi variants , <URL> ... that 's all the most common ones , I think .
The Health Assist Blog outlines ( quite comprehensively ) the fast food of various countries globally . Part 1 illustrates fast food that can be obtained in the following european countries : Denmark The Netherlands Austria Belgium Finland Poland Sweden Germany United Kingdom <URL> Part II illustrates Asian &amp; Australian fast foods : Australia China India Indonesia Japan Korea <URL> Part III illustrates South , Central American &amp; Mexican fast foods : Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Bolivia Costa Rica Panama Peru Venezuela Mexico <URL> Edit If you are in London ( UK ) this weekend 28th - 29th September 2013 you will be able to taste a variant of fast food because a festival of european street food , with food stalls from all over Europe will be hitting East London 's Dalston Yard . So you can go around sampling different european tasties , and ask the people of those countries selling them how typical or perhaps non typical they are of the that particular country ! If you want to sample some the finest that Europe has to offer , more information on this event can be seen : <URL> .
This is hard to answer with an authoritative source since the quality of non-potable water varies widely from the source it comes from ( is it groundwater ? river water ? is there anything recycled from drainwater from houses ? ) and even within a country . I 'm speaking mostly from my experience living in India , but in practice I have seen similar practices in Malaysia , Indonesia , Vietnam and Thailand too . None of these places have potable water supply ; the source is typically river or lake water . The reason why they are classed non-potable is primarily because of high mineral content or particulate matter , which can be purified for human consumption by physical filtration as opposed to bacterial disinfection - although as it has become cheaper and more compact to make ultraviolet or reverse osmosis filters for home use , these are also used . Bacteria or viruses are the causes for most water-borne diseases , those can get into the water supply if untreated raw sewage is dumped into water sources which thankfully most civil authorities are not stupid enough to do . So for the countries I mentioned , in practice , while it is customary to purify water for drinking either by boiling or using filtration devices , for other purposes such as washing clothes , washing dishes , cleaning hands , bathing , brushing teeth et al - essentially , anything that does not involve ingesting water , tap water is used directly . The water may taste funny for instance if you 're brushing your teeth - that 's because of the high mineral or iron content typically - but as for safety , yes , it can be considered safe .
According to Timatic ( the source used by most airlines ) , YES , a US citizen visiting South Africa DOES require an onward ticket , although there is an alternative . This is the relevant section : R38 ) Ticket ... . Immigration authorities may request visitors and transit passengers to prove that they will depart from the country within the prescribed period , by showing a return or onward ticket to their next international destination . Unless stated otherwise , return/onward ticket is defined as : a. International airline ticket ( i.e. any types of airline tickets , reservation confirmation , booking code etc. ) ; or b. Evidence of departing from the country by other means of transportation ( e.g. confirmation of joining a cruise , train , bus or ferry tickets , proof of departing by private boat or plane , etc ) . Technically there is a provision for visitors arriving without a return ticket , which is : Warning : - Visitors arriving without a return or onward ticket will be required to pay a refundable deposit in lieu of ticket . Failure or inability to pay this deposit will result in refusal of entry . There is no mention of how much the refundable deposit is , or how it must be paid . In general , your airline will confirm that you have an onward ticket before you board your flight , and it is possible that they will not consider the deposit clause when refusing you access , so it may not be a good idea to rely on that if possible . You may be able to work around this by purchasing a fully refundable ticket for the return , and then cashing it in once you have arrived in the country . If you are caught doing this you can expect to be immediatley deported - but realistically the odds of that happening are small . If you have frequent flyer miles , it 's worth checking if you can use them for such a flight - even if there is a fee for canceling , it 's frequently less than for a normal ticket , and you wo n't have to tie up your money in order to buy a full fare/refundable ticket . South Africa also requires that : Visitors are required to hold proof of sufficient funds to cover their stay and documents required for their next destination . So if you book your onward ticket to a country other than the US , make sure that you have the required documents for that country as well !
Here is a list of cities that i think are worth at least one day and where you can go in less than 2 h of train from Paris . I list the time by car because you can use car-sharing with <URL> or <URL> Brussels , its beers , fries , chocolate ( train 1 h 20 , car 3 h ) ( Belgium ) Chartres , its cathedral ( train 1 h , car 1 h ) Dijon , its mustard , champagne ( train 1 h 40 , car 3 h ) Lille , its flemish architecture , cheese , beers , fries ( train 1 h , car 2 h ) Metz ( train 1 h 20 , car 3 h ) Orléans ( train 1 h 10 , car 1 h 30 ) Reims , its cathedral ( train 40 min , car 1 h 30 ) Rouen , its cathedral ( train 1 h 10 , car 1 h 30 ) Troyes ( train 1 h 30 , car 1 h 50 ) My list is totally subjective , do n't hesitate to get information on these cities to make your choice . ( Chamonix is too far away to do in one day . )
Without specific permission from a land owner the only type of trail you can use is a Byway . These are strictly speaking roads , but tend to be used primarily for recreation by the public , and are generally maintained as farm tracks . Some are designated as a restricted byway that do not allow powered vehicles . Byways are shown on <URL> Explorer maps as a long dashed green line , and as a long pink dashed line on landranger maps .
Two days ago I took the Weidong ferry from Qingdao to Incheon , while both the Lonely Planet book and the ferry company web site state 775 CNY as the cheapest fare ( economy bed ) plus 30 CNY port tax = 805 CNY , the actual ticket was just 458 + 30 = 488 CNY <URL> Both China and South Korea have National holidays soon , so I do n't think this was an off-season price . One of the most interesting part of the sail was going through the locks into port of Incheon : <URL>
What you 're after is <URL> - the cooking associated with the area . Appetizers , soups , and salads Meat and seafood Rice Sides Wikipedia goes on to explain that the geography is the main factor in distinguishing the region 's culinary identity from other areas of the South . There 's an abundance of shrimp , fish , crabs , and oysters in the estuary system , and the marshlands of South Carolina are also conducive to growing rice , and that grain has become a major part of the everyday diet over time .
Clicking " show more " below the video you will read : The Performance of Russian guitarist Estas Tonne at the Buskers Festival Stadtspektakel in Landshut in September 2011 in the Old Town with " The Song of the Golden Dragon " . . The shoe store " Lipp " and the Commerzbank in the video give away the precise address : Altstadt 76 , Landshut , Germany . Here is a link to the website of the <URL> . It is also shown ( among others ) during the last seconds of the video .
It varies a little depending on the type of plane , but in general during flight over the wings , or slightly forward of the wings gives the least amount of movement - especially for planes where the engines are mounted on the wings ( rather than on/near the tail ) . Take-off/landing is a little different . For take-off there 's not a lot of difference - the nose of the plane leaves the ground first so there 's normally a sharper movement at the front as that occurs , but the front is also off the ground earlier so potentially less bumpy for a short period of time . For landing , the intention is for the rear wheels to hit the ground first , followed by the nose wheels . Presuming that happens , the front is much more smooth , and feels less of the bounce as the plane initially hits the ground . In a bad landing the nose wheel can hit the ground around the same time as the other wheels , which causes a shock at the front of the plane worse than what you 'd normally feel at the back - but that 's pretty rare . Of course , the other way to answer the question is that the " smoothest " ride is in whichever part of the plane First Class is - if only because the seats are more comfortable ( and the alcohol is free ! ) so you wo n't feel the bumps as much as in economy .
Processed pepperoni This is a bit unclear , one paragraph says they 're prohibited and another says canned and unopened pork products are ok . I think you should be careful with this one and leave the pepperoni unopened . Fresh ( chilled or frozen ) , dried , cured , and fully cooked meat is generally prohibited from most countries . [ ... ] Pork should be commercially canned and labeled in unopened containers Unlabelled fruit They 'll need to inspect them even if they were labelled , and unless you can prove they were grown in Canada , they will most probably be confiscated . Fruits and vegetables grown in Canada are generally admissible , if they have labels identifying them as products of Canada . Fruits and vegetables merely purchased in Canada are not necessarily admissible For fruits grown elsewhere in the Americas , you can check the <URL> database . You 'll notice there 's no US in the dropdown , I would be careful with US imported produce , I 've seen Florida oranges confiscated at the border but then again they might let them in . As for packaged fruits as opposed to raw ones , once more it depends where it was processed . <URL> guideline ( table 3.123 ) has all the information . Hard boiled eggs Those should be ok as Exotic Newcastle Disease seems to be <URL> in Canada and few <URL> of HPAI were reported . Eggs and egg products from Exotic Newcastle Disease ( END ) and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza ( HPAI ) affected regions , including cooked eggs , if not accompanied by a USDA Veterinary Service import permit remain prohibited regardless if those items are for personal consumption .
If you are a tourist , the state of emergency may not affect your stay in France expect if matches or stages are cancelled for security reasons . On the other hand , if you are a hooligan , the state of emergy can become your worst nghtmare : avoid France ! You can find the law describing the consequences of the state of emergency of the website <URL> . The law " Loi n ° 55-385 du 3 avril 1955 relative à l'état d'urgence " extends the power of the Department of Homeland Security " Ministère de l'interieur " and chiefs of police " prefet " . In the end , the consequences of the state of emergency are in the hands of the french Departement of Homeland Security . Motiviations to take actions are security and order , and tourists are warmly welcomed in France , including football fans and cyclists . Yet , the state of emergency can be used against holligans or can affect the pleasure of sport fans as matches or stages of the Tour de France could be suppressed as a collateral damage of threats to security and fear of terrorism . Among the possible consequences of the state of emergency for foreign tourits attending sport events : Article 5 : restriction of circulation of people and vehicules in particular areas , restricted areas Article 8 : concert halls , bars and any meeting places ( including stadiums ) can be closed by the local chief of police or the head of Homeland Security . Any meeting which can affect security can be prohibited . Article 6 : If there are serious reasons to suspect that someone threaten security or order , this man can be assigned to residence by the head of Homeland Security . His passport and id card can be withdrawn , in which case a temporary paper is issued as id . For the moment , these prerogatives are mainly used to prevent terrorism , following the attacks of November . Example of use of the state of emergency which can be related to your question : <URL> Before the football match between Mulhouse and Grenoble , on 17/11/2015 , a fight bewteen football fans/hooligans started near the stadium of Mulhouse . Supporters of Grenoble were prohibited in the stadium by the chief of police and their seats remained empty ... See also the <URL> , which prevented supporters of Shakhtar Donetsk from attending a match in Ile-de-France 7/12/2015 , supporters of Rubin Kazan in Bordeaux on 9/12/2015 , supporters of Lazio de Rome in Saint-Etienne on 9/12/2015 ... This situation occured 94 times in France between 30/11/2015 and 14/12/2015 because policemen were occupied protecting us from terrorism . Later , on 16/01/2016 , the administative tribunal of Chalons-en-Champagne has validated the prohibition of fans from Rennes in the stadium of Troyes , even if the measure was motivated by the fact that policemen were occupied protecting shopping malls during a sales period <URL> . <URL> : some proactive ecologists were assigned to residence during COP21 . And the World March for Climate on 29/11/2015 was forbidden for fear of terrorism . On the other hand , there are actually demonstrations against the project of law on working conditions and the movement " Nuit Debout " still holds on the Republic Place . Tourist are really welcome in France and Frenchmen are commited to turn the sport events of this summer into safe and joyful celebrations .
Dried fruits in packages are not a problem . Fresh fruits are prohibited . If the masala chai is in a factory package it should be fine as well . If it is home packed or from a fresh market , then USDA inspectors would have the final say .
Short answer to your question : Can one easily find highland specialties in the capital ? <URL> Explanation : Perú is well known , apart from Cuzco , for it 's cuisine . There are plenty of local dishes in the diferents regions and you can find most of them in Lima ( ca n't say the same on other cities ) . Why in Lima ? Because Perú is a centralized country , almost everything is focused on the capital . Back to your question , you can find the most ' famous ' dishes in many restaurants , a quick search on tripadvisor throw me a lot of restaurants , in any case you can ask in your hotel and they will tell you with more details . Not every restaurant will be a fancy one , so do n't worry about that . Also if you go the nearest market it 's probably that you will find " el menú del día " ( menus day ) but it 's not sure that you can find the dish you want , you can try your luck anyway .
This is the official website where you can get all the informations you asked for ( in english as well ) : <URL> Short summary : There are no restrictions for non-german citizens . You can participate in a guided tour and you can even watch a debate from the tribune of the reichstag for ~ 1 hour . You need a reservation for that , but you can do this online ( see the link above ) . You need a reservation too , if you want to go to the dome ( " kuppel " ) and the roofgarden ( " dachterrasse " ) , but this is included in some of the offers available I believe . You may also visit a congressman with a group of > 10 visitors , but you will need an early reservation for this .
Living in New Zealand and having had quite a lot of looks at flights to and from South America - for direct flights you have two options really - LAN Chile and Aerolineas Argentinas . LAN is more expensive but more reliable , and AA is ... the budget option . It was fine tho to fly with , once they actually took off . When they took off . There are sometimes ' cheap ' routes via LAX , Mexico City and down , or LAX , Houston and then down as well .
I 'd suggest you start with reading the <URL> page on <URL> . That 'll tell you about the main routes , the main trains , general timings and prices etc. . As a general rule , most big places on the east and west coast can be visited , but only certain ones inland ( in other cases the appropriate lines have closed ) . For long distances , the trains are normally slower than an equivalent european one , and do n't run as frequently . There are a few areas with the kinds of frequency and speed you get in Europe , but they tend to be along the east coast ( such as Boston - New York - DC ) For information and geographical accuracy , you probably want the <URL> , but the official Amtrak one will give you an idea of roughly where you can travel :
Usually flight attendants assigned on first and business classes make a quick head count after boarding is done . You can pass this if the class is almost full . In addition to that there are some techniques used to make sure that only people with the right boarding passes sit there , that 's why there is always flight attendants in first and business classes during the boarding time . You might think they are there to help you sit or to help you with your jacket , that 's true but they are also there to check your boarding pass either by asking you directly or by looking at it while it 's in your hand ( many airlines have different boarding pass colors for different classes ) . Also in many airlines flight attendants are asked to check the passengers names before serving to make them feel welcomed , if your name is not in the seat plan then you are busted . Out of personal experience as a cabin crew , with some luck there is somehow a chance of succeeding in sneaking into first or business class even with all what 's mentioned above , especially in big planes and when first/business class is almost full . What are the consequences ? well , the maximum would be paying the difference between economy and first or business class and big embarrassment . Again , out of personal experience passengers always say that they thought this is their seat ( AKA playing dumb ) and we can not do anything other than sending them back to their original seat or sometimes leave them continue . Finally , if the same door is used to board passengers from all classes then your chances are higher and you playing dumb if they catch you will be more acceptable .
The only major advantage is price : it 's not uncommon for a third-party site to have better prices than those offered directly by the hotel . That said , major chains are increasingly offering best-price guarantees , although these usually only mean that you can claim the difference if you spot it , not that they 're actually always the cheapest option . Minor advantages include : A faster booking process if you 're a repeat customer and they already have your details on file . The infrastructure behind a site like booking.com is rock solid , meaning very reliable booking and payment processes . Little independent hotels have to cobble together their own , so things can and do go wrong , eg . filling out their 16-page booking form and then getting an error on the last page because it does n't like your credit card or something . Some chance of getting your money back if the hotel goes bankrupt or something before your stay . ( That said , any halfway decent credit card will let you dispute the charge in this case even if you book directly . ) But all that said , I still book directly through the hotel if I can . Your reservation is less likely to get lost , you may get better rooms and more perks , making changes to your booking is easier , and you 'll get points if you belong to the hotel chain 's frequent traveller program . Also , Airbnb is ( supposed to be ) for person-to-person short stay rentals , not regular hotels . For most of the properties listed there , Airbnb is the only option for booking .
end question
start question
Is the 5 euro coin accepted anywhere ?
It is indeed a ( national ) collector 's coin . <URL> , but not elsewhere in the eurozone . Even in its country of origin , I could imagine that many people would be surprised to receive one or perhaps even refuse to believe that it is genuine . And looking at the photos you can find on the web , I must say that their design is strongly reminiscent of old Franc coinage , which would only add to the confusion . I can add that I have been living in the eurozone since it was created and even worked as a waiter for some time ( during which time I have seen many banknotes and coins ... ) but I have never seen such a coin . By contrast , <URL> should be accepted and do circulate widely .
Most North Korean visas are issued on <URL> , not in your passport , and are thus not a problem . Likewise , on entry and exit , they will stamp the paper and not your passport . Even if you do get a visa in your passport , as far as I 'm aware no country has a policy of actually refusing entry to people who have visited North Korea ; certainly neither Japan nor South Korea do , even though they 're technically at war . It certainly is the kind of thing you may expect to get a question or two over though .
I 'll answer as a father . I assume you are not stingy and you are willing to make your little boy happy . Also I assume you are talking about the US embassy , you have n't mentioned which embassy but it 's the one that comes to my mind when you said Grosvenor Square . Hamleys My children feel in heaven when I take them there . The shop is n't available everywhere in the UK like Toys R Us for example so there is a good chance that your kid never been there before . <URL> <URL> On your way back to Paddington stop by <URL> at 121b Edgware Road W2 2QZ and by him some amazing <URL> <URL>
There are probably two acceptable answers here : <URL> - an active volcano in Guatemala , it 's erupted 23 times since the Spanish conquest of Guatemala . It then erupted in 1965 and has been erupting basically continuously since then . <URL> - also in Guatemala ( which makes it easy for you ) , which appears on <URL> in the world . While currently the most activity is lahars ( mud flows ) there are also regular lava flows .
In general , when using your card abroad you get charged ( some ) of the following fees Currency exchange fee A fee levied by your bank for using your card abroad A fee levied by the ATM operator In your case ( 1 ) will not apply because the currency is the same , but ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) might still apply . ( 2 ) you need to check with your bank , and you should be informed about ( 3 ) by the ATM . From personal experience , ( 3 ) is not very common in Europe .
The behavior and acceptance of this behavior generally differs . Kissing someone on the cheek is generally considered to be a great degree of familiarity with the person you 're doing this with . So here goes : In the business setting I 've only seen this done by French or Canadian ( Quebec ) expats . Between friends it is acceptable but again only if you know the person you 're kissing . When it comes to business environment you kissing a woman as a matter of greeting technically can cost you dearly since it might be spun as sexual harassment and you 're likely to be fired on the spot but this is a discussion for <URL> site . Between friends : Almost anything goes but you have to look at it based upon the situation .
According to <URL> the Saarland - and Rheinland-Pfalz-Ticket have the same validity : practically all regional routes inside the Saarland and Rhineland-Palatinate , as well as a few into neighbouring states . The PDF lists all routes where the ticket is valid .
Head to the <URL> , find the ticket office ( <URL> ; open Monday-Sunday 05:00 -23:59 ) , and buy your ticket to Canterbury from there . ( I 'm not sure if you can buy the ticket online or not , but personally I 'd just buy it from the station . )
A <URL> revealed many luggage storage facilities in Osaka . IMHO it would make sense to leave the luggage in the station/airport from which you would be departing/returning when heading/coming back from Tokyo . Shin-Osaka Station To this purpose , <URL> , for a cost ( at the time of writing ) of 410 per day , until the 5th day after which the price becomes 820 : Outside the Southern Shinkansen Gate at Shin-Osaka ( which puts you on the 3rd floor of the station -- see map but it wo n't show the luggage room ) you will go down two more floors to First Floor to get to the bus pickup . At the bottom of the steps to 1F turn left to see Central Gate and the bus and car area outside , as well as some bicycle parking just past a convenience store . Go left on the other side of that convenience store and you can see the luggage storage at the end of the walk up a short ramp for your suitcase 's rollers . JR-Osaka Station JR-Osaka station has both coin-operated lockers on 1st and 3rd floor , as well as a manned luggage storage room . <URL> is the information page from the station website , and <URL> is its google translate version in English . <URL> is a map of the station in English . Note that coin-operated lockers are emptied regularly by staff , so you might have a maximum storage time of around 48-72h . I could not find any official information on prices . I did however find <URL> mentioning . Kansai International Airport Kansai International Airport also has a <URL> . The liked page mentions carry-on baggage storage , and your 15kg should fit this criteria : There are temporary storage facilities for carry-on baggage at the northern and southern ends of the 1st and 4Fs . The northern counters are operated by Kansai Airport Baggage Service , and the southern counters are operated by JAL ABC . It is 620 yen to leave a suitcase for one day , 360 yen for a Boston bag , 1,030 yen to leave a coat for 4 days or less ( from the 5th day , 210 yen is added per day ) , and large items such as surfboards may be left for 1,030 yen a day .
<URL> You can exchange unlimited amounts of DM banknotes and coins for euro indefinitely and free of charge at all Deutsche Bundesbank branches . The official exchange rate is set at EUR 1 for DEM 1.95583 . We accept the following banknotes and coins for exchange . Banknotes issued by the Bank deutscher Länder ( BdL ) Bundesbank banknotes and Federal coins denominated in Deutsche Mark or Pfennig We no longer accept the following banknotes and coins for exchange . 50 Mark BdL note II ( green ) , issued in 1948 You may submit this banknote together with an application for reimbursement to > the Deutsche Bundesbank 's National Analysis Centre at the Regional Office in > Rhineland-Palatinate and Saarland or to any other Bundesbank branch . DM 2 coin , first issue ( minting date 1951 ) Banknotes and coins issued prior to 20 June 1948 We also accept DM banknotes and coins submitted for exchange by post . We must emphasise , however , that submissions made by post carry substantially higher risks and if you choose to send cash in this manner , you do so at your own risk . > Information on deliveries permissible in Germany and abroad can only be obtained > from the relevant delivery companies .
Rent a ( Solo ) Music Studio Since you mention the need to be alone , a dedicated music studio comes to mind . A quick google search revealed <URL> and <URL> . Both of these offer small solo studios for something around 6-7 per hour , during both weekdays ( off-peak and peak hours ) and weekends . Whether this is considered as cheap is up to you to . :) There must be more music studios available for rental out there . These are just two examples . To find more you might want to try querying your favourite search engine for salle de musique and/or studio de répétition ( French for music studio ) . Parks and Kiosques If you decide one day that you want to see something else other than soundproofing foam in Paris , you could head to any park , set up your gear on the grass and go nuts . Indeed it is not uncommon to see random art performers rehearsing in the Parisian parks . <URL> Moreover some parks have dedicated music gazebos ( kiosques in French ) with great acoustics . These are usually free to use . Note that from May to October some kiosques will be taken by <URL> , <URL> . If you wish to use the kiosques you 'll want to coordinate yourself with these events . <URL> Below is a picture of the kiosque at the Parc du square Necker : Le kiosque à musique du square Necker , <URL> , Fair use Park Regulations and Musical Instruments Note that is is technically forbidden to make noise and disturb other park users , as per <URL> . Moreover these explicitly mention noise arising from playing instruments : Sont interdits les bruits gênants par leur intensité , leur durée , leur fréquence ou leur caractère agressif , en particuliers ceux produits par les instruments de musique et de percussion et par la diffusion de musique amplifiée , sauf dérogation . Whilst this does indeed mean that you need to ask the Mairie de Paris for authorisation to play an instrument in the park , in my humble opinion you should be able to play freely so long as you do n't disturb others around you . Whether violin music is a nuisance due to its intensity , duration , frequency or aggressive character ( translating the afore-mentioned rules ) is up for discussion . In any case , keep in mind that you are doing something forbidden and that therefore people might ask you to move or stop .
Yep , it 's real . This wiki article corresponds with the information you have , and searching the island name itself pulls up lots of information about the destination in mind for you : <URL> Vaadhoo island is famous for the ' sea of stars . ' This marine bioluminescence is generated by phytoplankton known as dinoflagellates . Woodland Hastings of Harvard University has for the first time identified a special channel in the dinoflagellate cell membrane that responds to electrical signals -- offering a potential mechanism for how the algae create their unique illumination . Keep in mind though ; there are plenty of alternatives to Vaadhoo Island in the Maldives , which is a resort area . For more sites to visit , you can refer to <URL> . To sum it up , there are places in Europe , US , Asia , and Australia where you can view such phenomenom ; the " Sea of Stars " is n't as localized as you think . To prevent link rot I 've added in a shortened list of the destinations in the article cited above : Australia Cairns Gippsland Lakes United States Manasquan Beach , NJ Mission Bay , San Diego , CA Torrey Pines Beach , San Diego , CA Cortez , FL Caribbean Luminous Lagoon , Trelawny , Jamaica Mosquito Bay , Vieques , Puerto Rico Asia Halong Bay , Vietnam Bali , Indonesia Ton Sai , Krabi , Thailand Toyama Bay , Japan Europe Zeebrugge , Belgium Norfolk , UK Indian Ocean Reethi Beach , Maldives Vaadhoo Islands , Maldives
A BitCoin Visa debit is a Visa debit card , and will <URL> as one where <URL> are accepted . Where can I use my card ? ( BitPay ) You can use your BitPay Prepaid Visa ® card at any online or brick and mortar merchant that accepts Visa ® Debit cards . Where can I use my <URL> Debit Card ? At any merchant that accepts VISA . The Xapo Card works just like any other debit card , but instead of drawing funds from your bank account , it debits purchases directly in bitcoin from your Xapo main wallet . You can use the card for online purchases , to shop at your local store , or at ATMs . Where can I use my debit card ? ( Wagecan ) Almost everywhere ! Any retail , merchant , point-of-sale terminals and ATMs , as long as you see ' Card Issuer Accepted ' , you can use it . Note that not all companies will ship their cards to India , BitPay <URL> , Xapo <URL> and CryptoPay <URL> . <URL> seems to ship worldwide . According to this <URL> , BitCoin is not yet regulated in India , but it is n't illegal . As you 'd expect , adoption rates are higher in urban centres ( Mumbai , Delhi , Pune , Bengaluru , Hyderabad , Kolkata , and Chennai ) , but <URL> still seems <URL> . This <URL> and particularly this <URL> ( both July 2016 ) discuss the state of BitCoin in India .
YES . I do n't know if it will work for everybody every time but it worked for me today . The lady at the Air Asia X check-in counter in Sydney airport asked me for my onward ticket when she saw I was flying to KL one-way . I presented the e-ticket for my train trip to Singapore , which only cost about $ 10 . At immigration in Kuala Lumpur they did n't ask me any questions at all . They were quite nice and friendly . Of course this is not a guarantee that they wo n't ask some people . So I can not state for sure how the train ticket would work if they did .
This travelcard is valid for all trams and buses ( including the night buses ) in Budapest and some close suburbs ( including the airport ) , on the HÉV suburban lines within the city limits ( a separate suburban network that 's pretty much like the metro ) , as well as on the BKK ferry . It is n't valid on the main suburban trains ( not operated by BKK ) nor on the funicular . The 5/30 card is basically a booklet of five 24-hour cards ( note that you must not detach them from the booklet : if even one page is torn out , the booklet is invalid ) . The sales desk marks the valid 30-day period ( if you get it from a machine , it should ask you for the starting date ; if you get it from a clerk , they might assume the current day if you do n't say anything ) . Each card is valid 24 hours from the date indicated , e.g. you can use it on one afternoon and the following morning . You indicate the date for each page by marking the start date and time at the back . I 'm pretty sure you do n't need to stamp it ( I do n't think the card would even fit in the validator ) . Here 's a picture showing the back of a page , from a <URL> :
Several restaurants offer Thanksgiving Dinners , with prices ranging from roughly # 20 to # 130 . Some can be found with brief descriptions at the links below . <URL> <URL> <URL>
You may consider going to Chios and then to Cesme . Here is more information : There are many different options from Piraeus to Chios . Prices start from 22.50 $ . From Chios to Cesme , I have found one line for 25 $ . <URL> has the information related to pricing and time tables . You need to select your departure and arrival points from the menus .
All modern aircraft have to go through incredibly stringent safety checks and are essentially equally safe . Accidents are so rare that any apparent differences in aircraft safety are mostly meaningless statistical anomalies . Airfleets.net has a <URL> , but it 's not easy to make any practical conclusions about it . For example , the Boeing 737 has way more accidents than any other , but that 's not because it 's unsafe , it 's because <URL> than any other jet plane . It 's also been around since the 1960s , with many of the old planes still flying in places like Africa with poor maintenance and minimal oversight , which explains why <URL> ( except one in northern Canada ) has occurred in third-world countries . By some measures , in fact , the revised 737 " NG " ( next generation ) is among the <URL> , with one accident per 16 047 900 flight hours , meaning that , statistically , you 'd need to sit in one for nearly two thousand years on average before it crashed . There are also planes like the <URL> , the Airbus 380 " superjumbo " and the Boeing 787 Dreamliner that have never had a fatal accident , but they 're also relatively new and comparatively rare . How do you even measure their safety ? All in all , the old saw about the trip to the airport being far more dangerous than the flight still applies , but if you wish to minimize the odds of being in an accident , looking at the track record of the airline , the size of the plane ( basically , the smaller the worse ) and the conditions it has to fly in ( mountains , bad weather , etc ) will be more useful .
Tipping is for the service , the menu price is for the food . If the service is bad , leave a small tip . This will show the wait person that you did n't forget to tip , but felt that their service was undeserving . On the converse , it is important not to leave a poor tip if the food was bad but the service was good . The wait staff can not make the food better and should not be punished for that . If this is the case , I would probably not go back to the restaurant again . I can get a better/different waitperson next time , but the number of chefs is much more limited .
The official licensing authority in Namibia is the <URL> . The The Namibian Comunications Commission appears to have been replaced in <URL> . The CRAN web site is awful and I ca n't find anything on it . Instead , I searched for sites linking or mentioning cran.na and found the <URL> saying : Guest Licences for Radio Amateurs visiting Namibia In Namibia , there is only one application form which applies for all kinds of spectrum users ( from Commercial Broadcasting Service up to Citizen Band Service ) . This may seem unusual , but has been officially implemented by CRAN and thus has to be used also when applying for a guest licence . The site provides a link with an <URL> . You must attach a copy of your home licence and pay 60N $ ( approx USD$ 4 ) The cheapest way of paying your guest licence is in cash after your arrival in Namibia at the office of CRAN . Then your licence will be handed out directly to you . CRAN can send the licence to your contact person 's P.O.Box in Namibia if you pay in advance via the expensive electronic banking or via your local contact person . The issued guest licence is valid for the complete calendar year . I would recommend that you attempt to <URL> the site owners if you require further information .
end question
start question
For how long can one rent lockers at Swiss train stations ?
It appears that information is in fact not listed in full on public websites . So I called them and asked about specifics at the Brig train station : Storage duration Generally , the maximum storage duration is 24h However , you can extend the storage duration via supplementary payments before the 24h runs out , up to a maximum of 72h total If a 24h period runs out without further payment , the contents will be locked and a red light on the locker should indicate that you need to pay again to access your contents After the total maximum of 72h runs out , the contents of the locker will be claimed by the baggage office and moved to the lost &amp; found , and you 'll have to pick them up there ( for a fee , I assume ) Pricing Prices and available sizes do vary between locations ( <URL> ) . In Brig , there 's two sizes of lockers ( width x height x depth ) : Large - 44x61x88cm - CHF 8.00 / 24h Small - 24x42x75cm - CHF 5.00 / 24h Source : <URL> ( +41 900 300 300 ( premium rate number , CHF 1.19 / min ) ) Opening Times ( Brig ) Baggage Office Lost &amp; Found Source : <URL> Note : These opening times only refer to the offices ( baggage / lost &amp; found ) , access times for your locker are usually longer . I could n't get exact details for access times to lockers in the Brig station , but this page for <URL> lists them as so I assume the situation in Brig is at least similar .
Some friends and I did some searching , asking at cycling shops , etc , and could not find anyone who rents bicycles . So I followed @Berhard 's advice and bought a used one for R$ 160 ( ~ US$ 72 ) and will either sell or give it away when I leave .
Mark 's answer is kinda perfect , but I will give some extra information as a cabin crew member : The bad : Lavatory noise ( flushing noise is so loud due to air suction ) Babies noise , the bulkhead behind almost all lavatories are where baby basinets installed . People with babies usually reserve these seats . Crowd ( queues ) You ca n't recline the seat enough ( if seated in front of lavatory bulkhead ) Not dark enough at night ( because of lavatory light when door is open , lot 's of lit signs next to lavatories ) Usually lavatories are next to cabin crew stations , depending on the airplane type there could be a lot of chimes and calls to the cabin crew station , which means extra noise . Boeing planes in particular are a bit noisy when it comes to chimes . Bad smell . The good : Lavatory is one step away . As I said before , usually there are cabin crew stations next to lavatories . The good side is , the closer you are to cabin crew the better you get served especially in long flights . If you do not sleep in airplanes , next to lavatories ( and galleys ) are the social places in airplanes , you can talk to people who are waiting for their turns or just stretching their legs there . More leg space as you already mentioned ( row behind , this is by design actually to give more space to baby basinets ) At the end , it depends on your style onboard airplanes : If you plan to sleep during the long haul : Take a window seat , no one will bother you to get out or in and you can rest your head on the side . If you plan to stay awake to watch a movie or read a book : Take an aisle seat away from toilets . If you plane to be awake for other reasons : Get a seat next to lavatories .
From <URL> : Switzerland is not part of the European Union and the currency is the Swiss franc ( or Franken or franco , depending in which language area you are ) , divided into 100 centimes , Rappen or centesimi . However , many places - such as supermarkets , restaurants , sightseeings ' box offices , hotels and the railways or ticket machines - accept Euro and will give you change in Swiss Francs or in Euro if they have it in cash . A check or a price-label contain prices both in francs and in Euro . Usually in such cases the exchange-rate comply with official exchange-rate , but if it differs you will be notified in advance . Changing some money to Swiss Francs ( CHF ) is essential . Money can be exchanged at all train stations and most banks throughout the country . Switzerland is more cash-oriented than most other European countries . It is not unusual to see bills being paid by cash , even Fr 200 and Fr 1000 notes . Some establishments ( but fewer than before ) do not accept credit cards so check first . When doing credit card payments , carefully review the information printed on the receipt ( details on this can be found in the " Stay Safe " section below ) . All ATMs accept foreign cards , getting cash should not be a problem . As they mention , there are ATMs everywhere , which is what I did when I went - I simply drew cash on arrival . I do this in all my travels - it 's convenient , and only ' failed ' in Buenos Aires where one of the airport ATMs was down , and in Uzbekistan ( Khiva ) where only one bank in town could let you draw money from my card type , and there were no ATMs .
Immigration and Customs is not easy to judge in the US . It all depends on flight arrival time , number of immigration staff on desks , any delays experienced to all incoming flights , if you get of the plane first or last , number of people to process , types of visas etc etc. . In my experience I have waited between 30 minutes in line and 3 hours in line . If I were in your situation then I would either be conservative with the shuttle booking and go for 2 -3 hours plus , or use the train from Newark to Penn and make my own way to the hotel .
Your passport qualifies to <URL> if you prefer . It costs a little less in the short run , but you will have to mail your passport with the application form . Although I was not able to find any info specifically on <URL> about this topic , any restrictions on how early you can renew are conspicuously absent . Information on various US embassy pages from other countries also suggests that you can renew at any time : From <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may apply to renew your U.S. passport at any time . From : <URL> : How soon should I renew my passport before it expires ? You may <URL> at any time before or after it expires .
Yes , you can . And I did . I just tried it from my recent trip from Narita to Shanghai Pudong via Incheon transit . I first asked Asiana Airline via email if it is possible , and they answered I must call by phone to cancel the flight . Then I called , and the operator said I should cancel the flight at the check-in counter . They seemed to not cancel my flight at that time . Then at the time of check-in , I asked again and the staff there said I can , as long as I book another return ticket and show him the ticket . I did n't have another ticket , so I immediately tried to search for and booked my return ticket , which is from Incheon to Narita in 6 days after . He accepted it , but during him checking my ( original ) ticket , he said that I can change the date of the ticket ! . According to his explanation , I did n't have to book another return ticket ; I should just change the date of the ticket of the only Incheon to Narita part . Hmmm ... it 's too stressful . It meant that I replaced my Asiana ticket with the cheap LCC one and also lost my US$ 100 . Sigh ... My ignorance ... But if you want to ditch only the last part of your return flight , it is possible ! . NOTE : Because I just booked my flight shortly before the departure , and had n't booked my hotel , I got myself into the investigation room at immigration . You shall be better off expecting a slightly more demanding , scrutinizing inspection .
It 's actually really easy and common , it turns out . Pity , as I bought a suit in Canada in advance . If you come out of Sa'adi metro station , and walk west - between the station and Ferdowsi avenue on both sides , there are a LOT of suit hire places . Many of them have tuxes as their show pieces in the window , but have regular suit hire too . I 've seen it elsewhere in Tehran , as well as other Iranian cities , but this was the biggest grouping that I found .
Google maps seems to do the trick . You first select your Route description ( e.g. <URL> ) . Once you have your route , type shell in the upper search field and Google will show you Shell in the <URL> of your route . EDIT : The second link does n't show both the route and shell stations integrated , but this is a screendump on how the result would look
Website you mentioned in the question , covers <URL> . Also , bus operator has a handy <URL> tool . What you probably want to search , is the route from <URL> . You will have to switch buses at Borgarnes ( from no. 57 to no. 58 ) . Make sure the driver will drop you off where you want though . You can also try hitchhiking from Borgarnes . In the summer there are a lot of tourists and Snaefellsnes peninsula is quite popular destination . Also , make sure to be dropped off at the road to the farm south of Eldborg ( Snorrastadir ) and take an " official " trail from there . As far as I recall , there is a fence around the crater area ( it 's nature 's reserve I think ) and the terrain around it is quite difficult . You can also sleep at this farm if need be - there is camping site , showers , kitchen etc. . EDIT : I highly recommend to use this instead of Google maps , it is just much better ( you can see the trails etc. ) : <URL>
Priceline has a policy against giving receipts that evidence payment because of how they process payments . The solution is to request a receipt from an airline agent at the ticket counter or gate , before the flight .
It is indeed impossible to buy tickets online at the website of the Dutch railways . One exception is maybe the international subdivision <URL> , but only if your journey involves crossing a border . You could though buy your Dutch railway tickets online at the <URL> . They use the same booking systems , and the online tickets have the same format . Only the Belgian railways do accept credit cards .
Officially the " Minimum Connection Time " for United Domestic - > United International at SFO is 45 minutes , and as you 're above this it is still what is considered a " legal " connection . However all this really means is that if you miss your connection the airline is responsible for finding you a seat on a later SFO-LHR flight . It does n't mean that you 'll make your connection , nor does it mean that the airline will cover any additional expenses such as hotels during the delay , etc ( They might , but it depends on the cause of the delay ) . As both of your flights are on United you do NOT need to re-clear security at SFO , nor do you need to collect your bags as they will be checked all the way through from LAS to LHR . Presuming that your LAS-SFO flight has a flight number below 2000 then you inbound flight will arrive in Terminal 3 , and your outbound flight will leave from the International Terminal G . These two terminals are connected by an air-side walkway , and depending on which gates you land at and depart from it will be in the 10-15 minute range to walk for an average person . If your inbound flight is a flight number above 6000 then it will arrive in Terminal 1 . There is an air-side bus from Terminal 1 to Terminal G , but depending on how busy the bus is it could take up to 20 + minutes to get between the two terminals and to your gate . Your outbound flight will start boarding around around 45 minutes before departure , and technically you need to be at the gate 30 minutes before departure time , although realistically 10-15 mins is normally the minimum - any later and you risk losing your seat . So basically , if everything goes right and your inbound flight is on time then you 'll have no trouble making your connection . You probably wo n't have enough spare time for anything other than a very quick bathroom break , but it 's doable . However if your inbound flight is delayed even a little - which is not uncommon on LAS-SFO flights , especially if it 's a morning flight - then you will likely miss your connecting flight . Depending on the time of year there are only 1 or 2 direct SFO-LHR flights per day on United , so the impact of missing your flight is very high - most likely an up to 24 hour delay ! If it were me , I would be changing to an earlier LAS-SFO flight . United is normally very happy to do this when there has been a schedule change . In this case as the ticket was booked via an agency and as a codeshare they may not be willing to assist , but I would start with them presuming you can conveniently call them . Otherwise talk to EBookers and ask them to arrange the change . In cases like this it 's normally best to know exactly what you want before calling ( eg , you want flight UAxxx from LAS-SFO rather than your existing UAyyyy ) .
It appears that information is in fact not listed in full on public websites . So I called them and asked about specifics at the Brig train station : Storage duration Generally , the maximum storage duration is 24h However , you can extend the storage duration via supplementary payments before the 24h runs out , up to a maximum of 72h total If a 24h period runs out without further payment , the contents will be locked and a red light on the locker should indicate that you need to pay again to access your contents After the total maximum of 72h runs out , the contents of the locker will be claimed by the baggage office and moved to the lost &amp; found , and you 'll have to pick them up there ( for a fee , I assume ) Pricing Prices and available sizes do vary between locations ( <URL> ) . In Brig , there 's two sizes of lockers ( width x height x depth ) : Large - 44x61x88cm - CHF 8.00 / 24h Small - 24x42x75cm - CHF 5.00 / 24h Source : <URL> ( +41 900 300 300 ( premium rate number , CHF 1.19 / min ) ) Opening Times ( Brig ) Baggage Office Lost &amp; Found Source : <URL> Note : These opening times only refer to the offices ( baggage / lost &amp; found ) , access times for your locker are usually longer . I could n't get exact details for access times to lockers in the Brig station , but this page for <URL> lists them as so I assume the situation in Brig is at least similar .
Except for a few special cases , a ticket to London Terminals is only valid until you reach your first of the London Terminals . It is almost never valid by tube . As explained on the <URL> Tickets issued for travel to/from London usually show ' London Terminals ' as the destination/origin rather than naming a specific station . This is because the ticket is valid to more than one London Terminal station provided it 's on any reasonable line of route . Tickets can only be used on National Rail services . For example , a ticket from Brighton to London Terminals is valid to Victoria , Waterloo ( changing at Clapham Junction ) , London Bridge , Blackfriars and City Thameslink or Charing Cross Waterloo East or Cannon Street ( changing at London Bridge ) . It would not be valid to , for example , London Euston or Paddington as this would not be on the line of route and would involve crossing London using another mode of transport . If you want to get from Reading ( or further west ) to London Bridge on a London Terminals ticket , going via Paddington is not allowed . To go Reading - Paddington - London Bridge , you need to buy a ticket to London Zone U1 , eg <URL> , which includes the onwards tube journey . Alternately , if you 're determined to get yourself to London Bridge on your current ticket ... You can route yourself on the Reading to Waterloo train , and change at either Clapham Junction , or ( post-August ) Waterloo + Waterloo East . Either way it 'll be a lot lot slower , but your <URL> via this slow route to London Bridge .
I have flown many times to Schiphol and using a Dutch passport I get out of the place in 30 to 45 minutes . The time you spend extra waiting at passport control is time you wait less for your luggage . Most of the time the line for ' all passports ' is rather short but slow going . From the exit of the secure area ( the green channel ) to the train should not be more than 5 minutes , follow the signs . If possible , look up the platform before you even arrive in the Netherlands . Most trains always leave from the same platform and if you are in a rush , it helps if you know which one you should have . But I think you are leaving yourself enough time if your plane is not delayed . I missed that you want to catch a train within the Netherlands . Those are without reservations , so you can catch any on the day , even when you buy a ticket online . Those trains run very often , you might even catch an earlier train rather than a later one . Most of those trains leave from the same platform every train that leaves on a given day or even all the time . But do read the sign on the platform because there are several trains in turn leaving from that one platform . 2016 update . I have been stuck in passport control quite a bit longer recently , 1 hour for one , more than 30 minutes at an other time . And that was using the ' fast ' EU passports only options . It may have been the time of day , but do leave enough time for getting out of the airport when you book a seat reservation on a train .
Take your own food . As a rule , the food served on trains is bland and overpriced . He will probably have time at the stations to purchase extra drinks , or if not get them on the train . He is probably not going to sleep that well in a regular train compartment ( I never do at least ) . Obviously he should take a book . The main risk if he is travelling alone is that he will have an aisle seat and will have to try not to accidentally lean on the person in the window when he falls asleep . Have the details of the changes written down and near to hand . Do n't look at the tickets themselves whilst on a train station platform - the risk of accidentally losing them in the rush is too high . Instead write down all the info ( including your seat number ) on a seperate piece of paper that you can just shove in your pocket and keep your tickets safe in your bag . Always try to get the window seat ! Find out what the words for " departure " , " arrival " and " platform " are in the countries that you will be changing in . It is usually in English too , but knowing the German ( or whatever ) wo n't hurt . Like mindcorrosive said , you have to watch out for things being stolen whilst you 're sleeping . Personally I always have a seperate , small backpack ( that I carry on my front if I have two backpacks ) , with all my valuables in and a padlock on it . I use it as a pillow , so it would be pretty hard for anyone to take it without me noticing , plus I get a free pillow :) If he is taking a night train he should have booked a sleeping compartment ! I know it seems expensive , but trust me , after one trip like this he will really understand why it 's good value for money . You may not sleep that much better in a bunk , but at least you have space to put your feet and a personal reading light . I know the difference in price makes you think twice , and I 've been persuaded by the cheaper ticket many times , but every time I cave and buy the cheaper seating ticket I end up regretting it . Obviously it 's too late to change this , but for anyone else who reads this I ca n't recommend it enough . I 've taken 100 + night trains in Europe and maybe 25 % of them were miserable experiences because I had to sit in a six person compartment ( 3 people facing 3 people ) , in a middle seat , in the carriage next to the engine , with 5 people who did n't speak English and refused to turn the light off , with nowhere to put my feet and nowhere to rest my head for 12 + hours overnight . Source : Taken many train journeys with 8 + changes lasting 48 + hours :)
You 're unlikely to find a place to rent a laptop anywhere in the city , as that 's not something most people are interested in . However it should n't be to hard to get a used laptop <URL> . Prices start from $ 100 , depending on condition .
Both the USA and Canada only require a passport to be valid for the period of intended stay FOR GERMAN CITIZENS . Normally when entering the USA and Canada you would be granted entrance for 90 days/6 months respectively , however given your passport will expire before that period is up you will only be granted entry until the expiry date on your passport . In future I would strongly recommend not cutting it this close with the expiry . If something goes wrong whilst you are in the country and you end up having to stay longer than expected it can cause real problems . Some countries also enforce that your passport must be valid for at least 6 months at time of entry , but thankfully neither the US or Canada do that for GERMAN CITIZENS however the US does requite 6 months validity for citizens of many countries .
I have never heard of CountryLink offering compensation for delayed trains/buses , and I have certainly never received any compensation for such delays ( including one delay of around 6 hours , although that was probably 15 years ago ! ) The CountryLink XPT fleet is aging , with some trains being over 30 years old despite only having an expected operating life of 25 years . Whilst in my experience extensive delays are not common , they certainly do occur .
end question
start question
How to get from Gatwick airport to Paddington ?
The most straightforward way would be taking the <URL> to Victoria Station ( the journey is about 30 mins ) . The Gatwick Station is directly connected to the South Terminal . From the North Terminal it 's a bit further and you need to take the automated shuttle train . Trains leave every 15 minutes . From Victoria Station you have no less than three options : take the underground/tube/metro / whatever-you-call-it Circle Line ( High Street Kensington direction ) and get out at Paddington stop . It 's gon na take about 20 minutes . Accordingly to Gagravarr 's comment you could also go from Victoria Line to Oxford Circus , then a cross-platform change to the Bakerloo Line up to Paddington . If the metro is closed , take the bus 436 to Paddington . For all those options , make sure you use the exit at the front of the train , not the exit on the upper floor through the elevators or escalators . You could also take a taxi , if the price is n't a concern for you . There are other possibilities I left out because they wo n't be faster or more straightforward than this . Note : be aware of the fact that , <URL>
Bus Is Cheapest But You Need a METROBUS Card The <URL> , which makes it easy to assume that taxis are the only form of public transport connecting the airport to the city . This is not the case however , as <URL> . It also states that bus rides cost 0.25 at the time of writing , regardless of the journey distance . Searching on the Panama public transport website yields the <URL> which , as the name suggests , should take you yo Albrook . Note however that you ca n't board a bus without swiping your METROBUS card first . What <URL> suggest is to ask for locals to swipe theirs for you in exchange for a bit more than the nominal bus fee . Taxis and Other Shuttle Services You 've probably also tried <URL> . These include taxi-train combinations , which seem to be the cheapest ( 20-25 ) , as well as single taxi rides ( 30-35 ) . The last entry in Rome2Rio however mentions a shuttle , which seems to cost the same as a taxi ride ( 30-35 ) . Checking on <URL> shows that these shuttles are not buses . Rather they are a private minibus/minivan service which might or might not take you to Almirante per se as this destination is n't shown on the aforementioned webpage .
Here 's what I ended up doing : I left my hotel at 5:30 to walk up to Colaba Causeway to catch a bus to Churchgate station . There are at least four different buses doing this route including the 106,123 and 132 . I had to wait 30 minutes for the first bus , in this time I could have walked to the station . The fare was 6 Rs . At Churchgate I bought a ticket ( 8 Rs ) for the fast train to Andheri station which left at 6:14 and took about 35min . There are many trains but I recommend using a fast one . Because I was good on time , I had breakfast at a restaurant near Andheri station for 20 min and then took bus No. 308 ( 7 Rs ) right to the airport . Finally there was a 3min walk to the terminal . So the whole journey took less than 2 hours and cost 21 Rs ( US$ 0.42 ) . If you are leaving later in the day , the traffic is much havier but there are also more frequent buses . Also both buses and trains get very busy during rush hour , but I still think it is possible to do this at any time of the day if you do n't have too much luggage .
Without any research I would say the tube is the cheapest and fastest as well , because you do n't have to change at all to get to Knightsbridge . The <URL> says the journey is 42 minutes . The <URL> train , may take you faster into central London , but you have to change into the tube ( District or Circle lines ) at Paddington and then change again into the Picadilly line . That will take much longer . There used to be a bus called they ' AIRBUS ' going from Central London to Heathrow but it was discontinued in 2004 . Taxis and shuttle buses may be faster than the tube if there is very light traffic , which is not likely . They are surely more expensive . Taking normal buses is possible , but you have to change at least twice and the journey takes at least two hours . It is the cheapest at # 2.30 , the tube is # 5.30 ( cash prices without an Oyster card ) . On the <URL> site , use advanced options , to specify that you do n't want to use the tube and it shows you bus connections .
There are no direct connection that I 'm aware of . Your best bet is : From Ciampino to Roma Termini ( train station ) using the <URL> . The bus ticket is 3.90 Euros . From Roma Termini take the metro B line to Piramide stop From Piramide ( aka Porto San Paolo ) take the <URL>
The cheapest ( that 's not walking or hitchhiking ) is to take an autorickshaw to Andheri train station ( 50 - 100 ) rupees , followed by a train ride to Churchgate ( 7 rupees ) , from which you can walk or take a taxi ( 40 rupees ? ) to CST . However , this is quite cumbersome and very time consuming . Expect this to take two hours total . The prepaid taxi booth at the airport will charge you no more than 550 rupees to get you to CST . That 's , what , 7 euros ? The convenience is more than worth it .
I am from Croatia and I find their site confusing as well . Maybe <URL> can help you . IMHO , on this link you have very clear timetable for selected date if that is what you want to find
The easiest way to answer this is to check the Transport for London <URL> , this will show the various ways you can get there and also highlight any ( planned ) closures , construction , etc. . Running Gatwick to London Bridge through that it suggests : 17 mins ( national-rail ) Southern to East Croydon Rail Station 19 mins ( national-rail ) Southern to London Bridge Rail Station or 46 mins ( national-rail ) Thameslink to Blackfriars Rail Station 4 mins ( tube ) District line or Circle line to Monument Underground Station Disruption : Part Closure 4 mins ( walking ) Walk to Bank 1 min ( tube ) Northern line to London Bridge Underground Station There 's also the <URL> which goes from Gatwick to Victoria ( faster but more expensive ) . There are various ways to go from Victoria to London Bridge . I think there is also a direct Southern train between Gatwick and London Bridge but it 's not showing up in the search . But just to double check the construction , you can check the <URL> page , the key point : How your travel could be affected London Bridge National Rail station will remain open and London Bridge Tube station will operate as normal throughout the rebuild . However London Overground , Southern , Thameslink and Southeastern passengers will be affected by the improvement plans at certain times up to 2018 . As a result , some services and stations on the Tube , London Overground and National Rail networks will be busier than usual as National Rail customers use alternative routes to complete their journeys . The next period of major changes to services is from January 2015 continuing to August 2016 . From Monday 5 January 2015 , Southern services will start to operate to and from London Bridge again , with a new timetable across the Southern network . Thameslink trains will run a limited service to and from London Bridge until January 2018 . From 12 January 2015 to August 2016 , all Southeastern services to and from Charing Cross will not call at London Bridge . That should n't impact the journeys above ( apart from the limited service on Thameslink ) . However , the <URL> also says : London Bridge : Southern and Network Rail apologise for the disruption and delays at London Bridge recently . The new track layout on the approach to the station has meant that so far , it has been a challenge to deliver the new timetable . We have reviewed this and made some changes to a small number of evening peak services to help us to deliver an improved service for you . We will be monitoring the service at London Bridge and assess if any long term changes to train services are required . So it 's definitely going to be worth double checking things closer to the ( via the links above or listen to the announcements , read the info boards and ask the station staff ) . There are also <URL> , but none get you much closer than the train .
Options I found : Fly directly from Singapore to <URL> for circa 90 USD . Bus from Singapore to <URL> with <URL> for circa 3 USD , then direct flight to <URL> with Airasia for circa 40 USD . So a total of circa ** USD ** . Note that <URL> . I took this bus in May 2015 &amp; it took around 1h45 to do the bus journey at a low-peak time , allow at least 3h if travelling on a week end or public holiday . Fly to <URL> ( Malaysia ) for circa 30 USD , then fly to <URL> for circa 30 USD . Found those prices using <URL> . So a total of circa 60 USD Take the ferry to <URL> for circa 22 USD ( 45 min ride ) , then take another ferry to <URL> with the <URL> for circa 25 USD ( this one is a long ride , 6 to 8h ) . As explained in <URL> " To buy the ticket from Dumai , you need to visit a ticket agent who will sort you out -- there 's no need to go to the port to buy a ticket . " , &amp; there does seem to be only 1 ( yes one ! ) ferry per day . So this means potentially having to stay in Batam overnight ( who knows ? ) . Then <URL> for circa 13 USD . So a total of circa 60 USD All in all , my research seem to always point to taking a plane rather than a ferry ... unless you really have a special reason for avoiding planes ( transporting loads of luggages , transporting a bike , fear of planes , or else ) . Here is another good reason not to take the ferry in Indonesia <URL> Note : you must add circa 12 USD to every flight with AirAsia if you have a checked baggage Note regarding trains going from Singapore to Johor Bahru : There 's no point in taking the train to JB , the new terminal is very inconvenient and services are infrequent and unreliable . Take a bus instead . Final note : there is nothing " special " to do in Medan , so if you arrive before 4pm try to plan your journey to your final destination straight from Medan ( typically using a tourist bus or a public bus ) , roads can be dangerous at night so many transports do not work when it 's dark ( after 7pm ) . The hotel/hostel hosting you can provide more info , it 's a typical thing to do . Resources : AirAsia route map : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL>
There are two options for ferries from Dubrovnik to Korčula : You probably have found the time table from Jadrolinija . You are right that they currently do n't run their ferry off-season , but only until end of September . But even until end of September , the ferry runs only twice a week , on Thursday and Sunday . October 1st is a Wednesday . The second ferry option is Krilo , which operates a high-speed catamaran from Dubrovnik to Korčula until October 18th , but also only twice a week on Tuesday and Thursday . If you arrive in Dubrovnik on Wednesday , you would have to stay a night there and take the catamaran departing 16:30 on Thursday and arriving in Korčula 18:25 . When do you arrive in Dubrovnik ? Since the bus from Dubrovnik to Korčula also only runs once a day ( 15:00 ) , there seem to be no possible way to get to Korčula with public transport if you arrive later . The bus takes 3h 15m . You can also go by bus from Dubrovnik to Orebic ( daily at 14:15 except Sundays and public holidays , arrival 16:15 ) and take one of the frequent ferries from Orebic to Korčula .
The Paris transport operator , <URL> You can input your start point , end point , and start time , and it will suggest routes to you . If you do n't want to worry about the bus , you can restrict it to rail ( so Train , RER and Metro ) only . Make sure you search for Aeroport or similar as your start point however , as France is full of places named after Charles De Gaulle . For your journey , the exact answer depends on the time of day you arrive , but taking the RER B to Châtelet-Les Halles and then the Metro line 7 towards Mairie d'Ivry looks the most straightforward . Châtelet is a big and confusing interchange however , so be ready for that . Broadly speaking , there are several main components of the Paris transport system : RER : this is the light rail system that links the suburbs of Paris ( including Aéroport Roissy-Charles De Gaulle ) and the city . It runs relatively fast , goes through very deep tunnels in the city itself , and each line will only have 3-5 stops within the city of Paris . The lines are given letters as names ( the one that goes to CDG airport is B ) . Arriving at CDG airport , you will see signs in the airport ( after bag collection ) saying " Paris by Train " - these will take you to the RER stop . Metro : this is the light rail system within the city , a conventional " subway " or " underground " type service . Services and stops are very frequent . As the stops are often close together ( in many places you can see the next platform from the one you are waiting at ) it often does n't make sense to use the metro unless you are travelling quite a few stops . Most metro lines either do n't leave the city proper , or only travel a very short distance outside . The metro is probably the most used service by tourists . Metro lines are identified by a number . Pierre et Marie Curie is on line 7 Bus : these are buses . There are huge numbers of them , and they go everywhere . Services like Roissybus run from the Airport to Opera . Buses can be intimidating to tourists , as you ca n't readily see on a map where they go and are subject to Parisian traffic . However , they can be both the cheapest and quickest way to get about ( CDG - Gallieni was much quicker by bus than RER + Metro for example ) . Buses are identified by number ( mostly ) , with numbers of up to three digits . Tram these are mounted on rails , but mostly sharing road space with other vehicles . They largely run " around " the ring of Paris , as opposed to the RER and Metro which largely run radially from the city centre . Trams are denoted by a T and a number . You can see Trams ( dashed lines ) , RER ( thick lines ) , Metro ( thin lines ) and mainline train services ( double lines , linked ) on the <URL> ( You can see CDG airport to the north-east ) . RATP <URL> , and paper maps once you get to Paris . There are a large amount of ticket options available . For the sake of your specific journey , you are probably best off buying a single ticket from the airport , to your destination , from a machine or office at the airport station . For future journeys , you may find a standard ticket , or a pass useful , but as CDG is a long way out , a pass that covers that journey to is probably bad value . You can read a full description of tickets ( in French ) here , including the " Billet Origine-Destination " <URL> There is <URL>
Well , if you are traveling for business or in some other arrangement where someone else is paying for airfare , achieving elite frequent flyer status in a program is quite cheap . Being the travel companion of someone who has access is another route . Somewhat more seriously , flying intercontinentally in a premium cabin ( or in a few selected services , such as United p.s. ) will also generally get you a same-day lounge invitation . Of course , it 's only a bargain if you 're on a frequent flyer award ticket or upgrade and comparing it to the full price of the ticket . Also , you may have to live with a lesser lounge if you are on an award as opposed to a revenue fare on some airlines ; I want to say Singapore Airlines is one of the persnickety ones . Some credit cards come with lounge access . The American Express Centurion card gets you into most airline lounges ; holding an AmEx Platinum card gives you Priority Pass Select access . Chase has a card that will give you United Club access . That said , the annual fees on these cards is quite substantial , comparable to the cost of purchasing a separate lounge membership . They are a value only if you already have a card , if you are switching from a comparable card that lacks lounge access , or if someone else is paying the annual fee ( e.g. your company for a business card ) . Depending on your travel patterns , it may be worthwhile to get membership in a frequent flyer program with more liberal rules about status . For example , Star Alliance Gold generally gets you access to any Star Alliance business class lounge when traveling on any Star Alliance flight . * On United Airlines it takes 50,000 elite qualifying miles in a calendar year to achieve Premier Gold , which is their lowest Star Alliance Gold level . On the other hand , to achieve Gold status on Aegean Airlines ( also Star Alliance Gold level ) , you need only 20,000 EQMs . Overall , if you mostly fly United , accruing to the Aegean program is a bad deal , as you will not be able to take advantage of United promotions or United program benefits like Economy Plus access or upgrades . But if lounge access is the main thing you care about , and you book fares that accrue at least 40 % EQMs for flight mileage , this is a faster way to get it . * Note that Star Alliance Gold lounge access is restricted if your status is in a US-based programs , i.e. United ( and formerly Continental ) and US Airways . You can not use a United Club as a United Gold Premier unless you are traveling on a same-day international itinerary . US Airways is even more restrictive , as they disallow lounge access to Gold Preferred members for most Caribbean and Central American flights as well . Similar restrictions apply for American and Delta , in the other two major alliances . Another option that may work is to purchase one-time airline lounge passes -- from someplace other than the airline . United charges $ 50 for a one-time entry into a United Club , which pretty much anyone who has been in almost any United Club will tell you is a colossal waste of money . However , sometimes people get passes as gifts or other compensation who do n't want or need them , and they may give them away or try to sell them . Depending on the type of pass and the airline in question , the pass may not be transferable , but for the ones that are , you 'll be able to shave a few dollars off entry by getting one from Craigslist or eBay . Yet another area to investigate are low-cost lounge offerings . I have n't flown them in years , but Bangkok Airways allowed anyone holding a ticket access to their lounge . Of course , the price of that was built into the ticket , and you expected to pay a little more than say AirAsia . Some airports offer non-affiliated lounges , such as the <URL> at BWI which starts at $ 17.50 . None of the above options is particularly cheap , but if everyone off the street could get into the lounge cheap and easy , there would cease to be any point going there -- it would be as noisy and crowded as the terminal .
The journey is typically split in 2 . Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo Probolinggo to Yogyakarta Cemoro Lawang to Probolinggo This journey takes around 1.5 h regardless of the type of transport you take . Renting a motorbike in Probolinggo is the nicest option , see <URL> Catch a ride in a shared taxi with some other tourists . Typically , you book a whole car with driver from Probolinggo to Cemoro Lawang &amp; back for around 650 ' 000 IDR . So a ride back should cost half of that , for a whole car , with a driver . Catch a ride on a motorbike taxi , locals in Cemoro Lawang will be happy to provide that . Be ready to negotiate . I would not pay more than 150 ' 000 IDR . Note : you may be stuck in Cemoro Lawang if you have n't already organized your journey , so unless you 're prepared to spend a bit of extra time waiting for a good deal , you could end up being in a weak position to negotiate , and pay quite a bit for your ride . Probolinggo to Yogyakarta train journey is around 8h if I remember well , and price for that is around 260 ' 000 IDR . You can have info on train timetables online , at train stations &amp; in local supermarkets ( indomart , alfamaret &amp; the likes ) , more on this on <URL> buses are leaving from Probolinggo bus terminal , be ready for an epic ride . Train vs buses/taxis in Indonesia After traveling for a month in Indonesia , I really appreciate the train a LOT . Train tickets are usually a bit more expensive , but the price difference is definitely worth it . Here is a non exhaustive list of advantages : fixed price ( no annoying &amp; time consuming negotiations ) buying a ticket is easy ( online , or local supermarket , or train station ) it 's more reliable than road transportation it 's faster than buses it 's comfortable ( even the economic class ) it 's clean there are plugs next to the seats ( charge your electronics ) it supports the country for improving its railway infrastructure the list goes on ...
Sesame Street is currently filmed at the <URL> in Queens , which does not offer public tours ( though the <URL> is open to the public and located on the campus ) . According to the <URL> , Sesame Street is not filmed in front of a live studio audience and the set is not able to accommodate guests . There is a Sesame Street theme park called <URL> in Langhorne , Pennsylvania , about midway between Philadelphia and New York ( near Trenton , New Jersey ) , owned and operated by Sea World . Now , that is only for the original American version of Sesame Street . There are many different versions internationally , and some of those filming locations may allow visitors .
I now called Ryanair 's telephone support for Germany ( +49 900 116 0500 , 0.62 EUR / minute ) . To find my booking , I had to specify my email address , my postal address , and flight data . Support said that , possibly due to a technical glitch , my email address is missing in their system . They then entered the email address , and soon after I received my booking confirmation . Fortunately , the call only took three minutes or so , and thus was not too expensive . I can live with that .
The ferries to Albania , be it to Durazzo or Vlorë , depart Italy from either Ancona , Bari or Brindisi ( ordered by distance from longest to shortest ) : Mappa traghetti , <URL> , Fair Use It is safe to assume that the duration of the journey will depend on the distance between the two cities . <URL> yields the following result in terms of travel time ( A : outward , R : return ) : Ancona - Durazzo : 20h00m A | 20h00m R Bari - Durazzo : 09h00m A | 20h00m R Brindisi - Vlorë : 07h30m A | 05h00m R See below for a screenshot of the search results : Some routes are available only seasonally and not throughout the year . According to Cemar , <URL> : Adria Ferries : ( Traghetti online Tel. 892.112 ) Servizio trisettimanale svolto con la nave traghetto " Riviera del Conero " e " Riviera Adriatica " Da Ancona per Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) ad Ancona 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Bari ( Italia ) a Durazzo ( Albania ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Da Durazzo ( Albania ) a Bari ( Italia ) 3 partenze settimanali tutto l'anno Cemar also says that Venezia Lines runs a fast catamaran from Bari to Durazzo . However searching on the company website seems to indicate that the service was discontinued , as the only lines one can find depart from Venice and aim for Croatia .
Fastest <URL> to Jamaica Station ( $ 5 , ~ 15 min ) Inbound <URL> service to <URL> ( $ 6.25 , ~ 20 min ) Cheapest <URL> to Howard Beach Station ( $ 5 , ~ 15 min ) <URL> ( NYC Subway ) to Hoyt-Schermerhorn Station ( $ 2.25 , ~ 30 min ) Well , that 's not entirely true . The truly cheapest options are to take the B15 bus and transfer to another bus somewhere in east Brooklyn , or to take the Q10 bus to Lefferts Blvd-Ozone Park Station and take the A Train from there to Hoy-Schermerhorn . Either ride would be $ 2.25 for the whole trip with a MetroCard . These are a much , much longer routes ( up to two hours ) through some very , very boring areas , and I would not advise a visitor , who has limited time , to bother with them . If you want to play with some options yourself , try the <URL> . I 'm not familiar with the MTA pass options , but you can save money by buying multi-trip MetroCards . MTA has a handy <URL> based on the number of rides .
I did some research and collected various answers : From <URL> there are two possibilities : Air : As stated , access to Canaima National Park is by air to the village of Canaima , about 50 km away from the falls . From there , you take either a smaller plane and fly to an airstrip at Canaima Lagoon , or travel by river to the lagoon . From the lagoon , you hike to a view point of the falls . There are also daily flights via Puerto Ordaz connecting Canaima airstrip with the major cities of Venezuela . The airstrip is a short jeep-train ride from nearby Lodges . Check flights from your area to Caracas or other Venezuelan cities with connections to Ciudad Bolicar and Canaima . From this page , you can also browse hotels , rental cars , and special deals . Water : From Canaima , when the water is neither too high or too low , you can travel by motorized canoe , called curiara up the Carrao River , then the Churun river to an point where you can then hike through the jungle to the falls . The river portion takes about four hours , and you should allow an hour or more for the hike . Canoe access to Angel Falls is restricted to the rainy season , June to November . From <URL> Angel Falls is one of Venezuela 's top tourist attractions , though a trip to the falls is a complicated affair . The falls are located in an isolated jungle , and a flight from Puerto Ordaz or Ciudad Bolívar is required to reach Canaima camp , the starting point for river trips to the base of the falls . River trips generally take place from June to December , when the rivers are deep enough for the wooden curiaras used by the Pemon guides . During the dry season ( December to March ) there is less water seen than in the other months . Very interesting information can be found on <URL> . They do not only explain how to get there but also mention a price and duration . Similar information can be found on <URL> . They also explain in very detail how to get there .
According to the official <URL> there are two places you can use as your source . Rejkjavik and Copenhagen . There are 2 airlines servicing the island : <URL> and <URL> . The price Air Iceland is currently quoting for destinations in Greenland is 161 EUR ( Kulusuk ) and 193 EUR ( Nuuk ) . I guess the further north the more expensive it gets since you will probably need a helicopter ride . Could not find the ferries but there are cruises from Europe that will take you around Northern sites including Greenland . There are multiple sites referring to that but they may be exactly the same cruise : <URL> <URL>
The fastest way to get into town quickly ( barring a taxi , which is expensive and whose speed depends on traffic conditions ) is the commuter trains , <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) . These trains are also cheaper than the Metro when you 're going from or to the airport ( $ 1,75 for a 3-zone Cercanías ticket , vs $ 5 for a Metro ticket from the airport to the city ) . The downside of Cercanías is that they stop at fewer places . Line C-1 , which starts at the airport , stops at Recoletos , which is about 700m from the eastern end of Gran Via . You can change at Nuevos Ministerios for line 3 or 4 and get off at Sol , the next stop : that 's about 300 to 500m from anywhere on Gran Via . You can go from the ticket machines at the airport to street level on Puerta del Sol in 30min , not counting the time to wait for the train at the airport ; the train only runs every 30min . If you want to go to a precise Metro station , change for the Metro in the city . You 'll need a separate Metro ticket : $ 2 , or possibly down to $ 1.50 if your Metro trip is no more than 9 stations long . If you 're going to take the Metro a lot , get a 10-trip ticket for $ 12 . You can change at Chamartín and take line 1 to Gran Via , or change at Nuevos Ministerios and either take line 6 and change at Cuatro Caminos for line 1 to Gran Via , or take line 10 then change again at Tribunal for line 1 , or simply get off at Tribunal and walk a bit . You can also take the <URL> ( <URL> , <URL> ) all the way from the airport : take line 8 , change at Nuevos Ministerios for line 10 ( see above ) or change at Colombia for line 9 then at Núñez de Balboa for line 5 to Gran Via . The trip takes a little over an hour , so although the metros are more frequent , this does n't compensate for their being slower than Cercanías . I do n't know the station maps , but generally changing between Cercanías and the Metro is no more inconvenient than changing between two Metro lines . Avoid changing to Cercanías at Chamartín as finding the right platform can be a bit annoying .
end question
start question
Cheapest way from DTW Airport to Auburn Hills , MI ?
Here is a map from gcmap.com showing all the airports near your target location that fly to London , UK . I chose that since almost anywhere will fly to London somehow . X marks your target location roughly . Which airport is best depends on where you are travelling from . There may be one or more stops from most of these airports , with DTW more likely to have a non-stop ( or actually be on the route to/from the other airports ) . <URL> I entered a random date searching for flights from FRA to DTW , XEC , YQG ( YQG has complications since it 's in Canada ) and it does seem that DTW is the only reasonable option . Looking on <URL> , a typical UberX price from DTW to Auburn Hills is stated as $ 45 - $ 58 . Google maps transport links to <URL> . However it 's looking like a 3-3 .5 hour journey to get to Auburn Hills rather than a 45 minute taxi ride . Are you interested in that ?
I 'm currently working in our Eindhoven office and can see the runway from here ;) Hitchhiking is unlikely to work ; there 's no decent location to get picked up near the airport . The A2 highway is close , yes , but there 's no parking lot or something similar . Furthermore , you 're not allowed to walk on the highway itself . You 'd have to post on the on-ramp , but there 's no room to stop there . The train would be easy , and there are 7 buses per hour to the station . Pick the 401 ( 22 minutes ; it uses a reserved buslane so no traffic jams ) ; the 103 takes a horrible detour . Costs 3 euros one way , and you 'll need coins for that . There are actually 4 trains per hour to Amsterdam ; two of them go to Central Station and the other 2 go to Amsterdam Airport ( south of the city ) . Depending on where you 're going , either route is an option . All trains stop in Utrecht , where you can transfer .
The easiest way is indeed a taxi , and yes , that price sounds about right , although it 's a regular metered fare so the exact cost will vary . Not every taxi will be willing to up and off to Abu Dhabi on a lark though , but the airport taxi stand can sort one out if you ask , or you can call and book a cab . As for safe , well ... most UAE cabbies drive fairly sanely by the standards of the region , but the Dubai-Abu Dhabi highway always has the occasional blinged-up rich kid doing 300km/h in the fast lane in Daddy 's Lamborghini . The cheaper and safer , but slower and less convenient , option is the <URL> bus , Dhs 20 one-way . Buses leave from Ghubaiba station , on the Dubai Metro Green Line , every 30 min or so .
The city bus to Corcovado railway station ( Cosme Velho street ) stops at the lower station of cable car . <URL> . The cable car is one option . AFAIK , price is R$ 43 per adult , which is around 21 USD . There is also a road to the top , but city buses do n't go there . At the station you can usually also find people that will offer you ride with their minibuses . The price is comparable to cable car . It may be cheaper if you are in larger group , so you can hire whole car .
As for your alternative question on " how to get the cheapest fare in Thalys " : the b-europe . com website offers a <URL> . For each date , it shows the price of the cheapest tickets still available on that date . The cheapest possible fare for a trip from Liège-Guillemins to Paris Nord seems to be $ 29 . These are always " Non Flex " tickets ( color coded in green ) meaning there 's no possibility of exchanges or refunds . There might be cheaper tickets because there 's a color code for " Promo " tickets ( yellow ) , but I 'm not seeing any on the fare calendar now ( I 'm not sure I ever have for the routes I 've booked ) . You can always book up to three months in advance , so today April 7th , you can book tickets up to July 7th . For that date , the cheapest offers I 'm currently seeing are : I 'm not sure about the Liège-Paris route , but in my experience with other routes , these offers do n't last long , especially if you do n't want to travel on a very early or very late train . So your best bet is to book exactly three months in advance .
According to the <URL> , the last connection from Helsinki-Vantaa airport T2 to Turku leaves the airport at 22:50 , arriving in Turku at 01:30 . ( There 's also an earlier bus at 21:50 which you 'll likely make if your flight is on time . ) Both also serve T1 ( leaving 10 minutes earlier ) and involve a change of bus at Espoo 's Ikea along the way , but the buses are run by the same company ( Pohjolan Liikenne ) as a guaranteed service , so this should be pretty painless . Should you miss the 22:50 , the next services are at 0:30 AM , 01:25 AM and 03:45 AM . So you 're definitely not going to get stuck at the airport for the night ! There are also other options if you detour via central Helsinki , eg . transferring to a <URL> at Helsinki Central ( last departure 23:00 , but arriving slightly earlier at 01:00 ) and the supercheap <URL> service ( last bus from central Helsinki at 22:45 ) . But if it 's your first time in Helsinki and/or you 're tired after a long flight etc , the direct bus is the easiest option .
Since you mention that you are open to getting to Cuba not necessarily directly from Europe but through a intermediate destination , my recommendation would be to consider one of two Canadian travel hubs : Montreal and Toronto . I recommend these because destinations in and around where Cuba are the main tourist places for Canadians for a big chunk of the year . You will occasionally find some ridiculously cheap fares through one or more of these methods : <URL> : they have regular deals as well as last minute deals . If you have the patience to look around their site , you are going to find some good packages . The caveat is that these tend to be vacation packages rather than just air fares but none the less , it is worth looking in to . <URL> : Air Canada and WestJet prices tend to go hand in hand a lot of the time . If one drops prices , the other one usually does as well . However , both airlines have partnerships with different hotels , etc. which gives you some more variety . <URL> : This is a budget airline where you will be able to find both cheap flights and vacation packages - in most cases , cheaper that both of the above airlines <URL> and <URL> : This site has a great collection of great deals picked out by <URL> where by you can get deals from all Canadian airports to other destinations . For example , on <URL> which is in turn a deal from Air Canada Vacations . All of the above methods usually require patience to be able to find the cheapest fares but then again , it is something to get started with :)
There are quite a few options in Tokyo for the budget conscious traveller and some of these are seasonally effected ( for both price and availability ) . じゃらん <URL> <URL> The first place most Japanese people I know ( as well as personally ) check is a site / app called じゃらん . じゃらん shows all hotels with vacancies including low cost business hotels all the way up to places like the Ritz Carlton . They also offer last chance details usually available up to the last check-in time of each individual establishment . Capsule hotels that show up are not representative of all existing establishments ( in the sense that a lot of capsule hotels do not advertise through it ) . Also じゃらん does not give you love hotels as an option ( although this can be cheap in a pinch ) . Standard Hotels A room in a standard hotel off-peak or one that has many vacancies can sometimes be cheap . Average Price ￥ 4000 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : A standard hotel room ) Air B 'n' B Japan now has a semi-booming Air B 'n' B market where you can sometime snap a place really cheap . It is wise to note that there is somewhat of state of unrest with some normal residents who own adjacent houses because of the noise associated with many people moving in and out of a place . If possible get a hosted place as it usually comes with meals and is usually a house . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 8000 . ( NOTE : As domiciles are inherently different , the size of your room / apartments may vary drastically ) Business Hotels These usually offer a cheap room with a bed , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 7000 . ( NOTE : The room is usually the size of the bed + a small alcove ) Budget Hotels Usually have the off-peak rates of a standard hotel but all year round . The rooms are smaller and in some cases the showers are communal . Average Price ￥ 2000 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : Expect a smaller than standard hotel size room with a Unit Bath / Shower ) Capsule Hotels These offer a capsule that has a bed , air-conditioning , TV and Wifi however showers / toilets are usually communal . Average Price ￥ 1500 ~ ￥ 5000 . ( NOTE : The capsule is usually slightly larger than the size of a person , is separated at the entry by only a curtain and may have a ladder to get to your capsule ) Hostels There are many cheap hostels available ( especially around Asakusa however they trend to be booked out 2-4 months in advance especially ahead of certain seasons . Most of the time these are shared dorms however there are usually facilities available to hold your valuables . Average Price ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 4000 ( NOTE : Room size is sometimes large however you will most likely only get a bed surrounded by other people . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Backpackers Japan does actually have an Association of Backpackers and Youth Hostels ( Not the official name ) and as such there are a few backpacker-specific lodgings around . They are quite hard to find and are usually quite similar to Hostels except there is a chance you may get your own room . Average Price : ￥ 1000 ~ ￥ 3500 ( NOTE : Room size could be either communal or similar in size to a business hotel . Showers / bathrooms are often communal ) . Couch Surfing Couch surfing is a possibility , however you may struggle to find a place . @fkraiem mentions the site <URL> however as I have not used it before I am not sure how reliable it may be . Your mileage may vary . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 2000 ( NOTE : As with Air B 'n' B , domiciles are inherently different and the size of your room / apartment may vary drastically ) . 24-Hour Open Public Spaces There are quite a large amount of 24-hour locations around Tokyo however Train Stations and Bus Stations are not usually included ( as most if not all of them close ) . Both Narita and Haneda Airports are for the most part open 24-hours a day however there are reports of being moved on by overzealous security guards ( or even kicked out of the building for a few hours ) . Some Convenience stores have a café attachment and are open 24 hours a day . Staying without purchasing anything will usually result in being asked politely to leave hence purchasing a small drink / snack is recommended . Average Price : FREE ~ ￥ 500 ( NOTE : You are sleeping on either an uncomfortable bench , seat or the floor . Showers / bathrooms are either non-existent or require a small fee ) . " Slumming It " By a newspaper / ask for some cardboard boxes from a supermarket , find a nice corner somewhere that is out of the weather , cover yourself in the boxes / get inside them and go to sleep . Carries a small risk of being assaulted / Robbed / Arrested . Use at your own risk . Strongly not recommended , but included to mention all options . Average Price : FREE ~ All of your money ( NOTE : You are sleeping in / under a cardboard box . There are no showers unless it rains and you are feeling game enough ) . This is by no means an exhaustive list and I shall add to it when I find more . Further , the prices listed are inductive of what I have paid previously ( in the past 3 years or less )
One possibility to consider is to fly into another country and then cross over to Russia by land , if time and your visa situation allows it . For example , a flight to Helsinki , Finland may sometimes be significantly cheaper than a flight to Russia , and it 's easy enough to cross into St Petersburg from there . Consider Latvia and Estonia as well . Another idea is to use a European budget airline that flies to Russia ( e.g. fly into the UK , then easyJet flight to Moscow )
One option is to take the train . I 've just looked for a random weekday in September , and there 's basically one train an hour in each direction . It 's direct , and takes just shy of 4 hours . To get train times , your best bet is to use <URL> and search from there . ( Yes , that is the German railways rather than the Italian I 'm suggesting , but they have a better site and can search basically all of Europe ! ) In terms of Cheap , it is n't too bad . It 's about $ 100 return if you book in advance onto specific trains ( Mini ) , rising to about $ 200 for a flexible ticket ( Flessibile ) .
Picking a random date in the future , <URL> shows that flying to Larnaca and then going by airport shuttle is probably the cheapest option in terms of paying . However , if you 're searching elsewhere for flights , check out both Larnaca and Ercan as options , and flying out of both CDG and ORY in Paris , as they seem to produce quite different prices . Other than that , you 're down to hitching or cycling - driving and taking a ferry looks extremely exorbitant !
You can try <URL> . They do airport transfers to hotels in the CBD for about $ 36 return . They do n't state what times they operate , so you may have to call them to confirm if they run that late .
Cheapest flights to destinations which have snow would be : Tiger Airways to Taipei , Taiwan , and then onwards from there . Tiger Airways Chennai or Bangalore in India , and then a train up to Himalayas or <URL> to New Delhi ( this would be closer ) and then onwards to the Himalayas . AirAsia X to Korea / Japan . These are typically quite expensive compared to the above options .
Nothing is going to beat Thalys time-wise and Paris-Nord is n't too far away from the center as far as long-distance " departure points " ( whether airports , train stations or bus terminals ) go . You simply need to combine Thalys with a subway , RER or taxi ride from wherever you find yourself . Even if you could find a bus starting closer to your actual point of departure , it 's going to be much slower . Trains other than the Thalys will also leave from somewhere else and/or require several connections or a long travel time . Both solutions could be considerably cheaper , however . Ridesharing could also be a way to save some money and leave directly from another part of the city than the train station but it requires a lot of flexibility and would not be very fast either so it probably does not meet your requirements . Also , among the main central sights , the Arc de Triomphe and Champs de Mars are already a bit away from the very center of Paris . You could plan your sightseeing to start there in the morning and end up near Châtelet / Les Halles , Saint-Michel -- Notre-Dame , Cité ( close to the île de la Cité , the Louvres or the Tuileries ) or another station on subway line 4 or RER line B or D. Same thing if you intend to see the Grands Boulevards , Montmartre or the Opéra area ; go there last , not before seeing the Champs-Élysées or the 1st arrondissement .
First up , you might want to start by looking at <URL> , which has some good general tips . As you 're in the UK , and starting with pounds , we can be a bit more specific . First up , you probably do n't want to be using a UK debit card , as almost all of them have very high fees ( think a couple of quid plus several % ) per withdrawl . Several cards that used to be free ( eg Nationwide ) now charge , so beware ! Secondly , changing cash before you go , or when you 're there , is unlikely to get you a great deal - the " spread " ( difference between buying and selling rates ) is almost always quite large and eats into the rate , and that 's before commission . With all that in mind , the general advice is to get a card with low/no foreign exchange and cash withdrawl fees , and use that . Use this to take out cash as and when you need it ( and if it 's no fee , there 's no need to change loads in one go , take lots out etc ) . The current advice ( June 2011 , but it 's been unchanged for about a year ) is to get a <URL> card , and be pro-active on paying it off . ( They apparently object if you leave it in credit ... ) . The card has no overseas fees and no cash withdrawl fees ( but interest does start accruing ) , so you can use it to take cash out as and when you want it . See <URL> for some more general advice , and also the <URL> page which I used a few months back to decide that the Halifax Clarity was the best bet for myself !
Until quite recently , one option would 've involved a night train . However , with the opening of the high speed line across the French-Spanish border , and the associated through TGV trains , the night trains no longer run between France and Spain . It 's basically just daytime TGVs or local trains Your journey will be largely similar to one starting in the UK , so you can get an idea by looking at the <URL> . You 'll also need to get from Antwerp to Paris to catch the onwards TGV to Spain . Easiest and quickest would be Thalys , see the <URL> for more . Basically , though , it 's going to be a two day journey . One option is : Thalys ( or otherwise ) Antwerp to Paris , cross Paris , afternoon TGV to Barcelona , stay in Barcelona , morning train to Alicante Late train from Antwerp to Paris , stay in Paris , early morning TGV to Barcelona and mid-afternoon train on to Alicante
<URL> is your best option . <URL> on where and how to find them : The shuttles are white colored and parked in front of the terminal building arrivals level exit ready to take you to Taksim for a fee of 14 TL and to Kadıköy for a fee of 9 TL . Shuttle 's Taksim departure point is across Taksim Divan hotel , in front of the Point Hotel .
The metro link to the airport is newly opened ( Monday 3rd November 2014 ) See official <URL> for details and map . So you will need to take a tram from the Airport to Trafford Bar and change for a tram for one stop to Old Trafford . <URL>
You could take a <URL> bus directly from <URL> for 39 $ ( or 35 $ for " Promotional Ticket - can not be changed or refunded ! " ) The trip takes 4 to 4 1/2 hours , and looks like there are 1-3 daily connections . I do n't know if this is the cheapest public transport option available ( probably not ) , but it 's much better than the ICE price , and quite convenient because it 's a direct connection .
Your options Fly : reasonable price , fast , safe , &amp; reliable . Do book at least a couple of weeks before if you come in the high season . You can fly from Denpasar ( Bali ) , but also from Mataram ( Lombok ) I believe . Check with <URL> . Sail : more expensive , slower ( at least 2 days &amp; 2 nights ) , more unreliable &amp; more unsafe compared to flying . But there are some very cool stops on the way , &amp; the sailing trips always includes stops at Komodo &amp; Rinca islands . Same thing , try to book in advance , a week or 2 should be fine . Read more on <URL> Bus &amp; ferry : cheap price , slow ( 36h ) , unreliable , boring , tiring , &amp; moderately safe ( sailing is probably more unsafe ) . Read more <URL> Fly &amp; bus &amp; ferry - option 1 : fly from Denpasar to Bima with LionAir , and then carry on with bus &amp; ferry . See also <URL> Fly &amp; bus &amp; ferry - option 2 : fly from Mataram to Sumbawa Besar with LionAir , and then carry on with bus &amp; ferry . See also <URL> Fly &amp; bus : fly from Denpasar to Ende with LionAir , and then go by bus to Labuan Bajo ( takes about 12h ) . That 's only worth it if you already planned to visit mainland Flores I suppose , you can stop in Bajawa or Ruteng on the way . PNI ferry : super cheap ( 190 ' 000 IDR in 2015 ) , only every 2 weeks , slow ( 30ich hours ) , unreliable , totally unsafe , &amp; very uncomfortable ( packed ) . You probably do NOT want to do that ! If you do , you can buy ticket at the official ticket office in the harbour . Once in Labuan Bajo We predict a three day excursion What do you plan to do during those days ? Because Komodo national park is also very famous for its exceptional underwater life , so many people do a mix of land excursion ( 1 day for Komodo &amp; Rinca island ) to see the dragons &amp; underwater adventures by diving or snorkeling ( 1 to 3 days usually ) to see Manta Rays , turtles , sharks and more . Note that it 's worth diving in most sites , snorkelling is fine to see the Manta Rays &amp; nice corals but to see more you want to scuba dive . Having at least a PADI open water before going is best , otherwise you will only be allowed on shallow dive sites ( 10 or 12m deep I believe ) . You can be based in Labuan Bajo ( a bit of a ugly , smelly , &amp; dusty town ) &amp; go every day for an adventure . ie . one day exploring Komodo &amp; Rinca island , then 2 days diving . In 2015 , accommodation in LB starts at 100 ' 000 IDR for a double room , day excursion to Komodo &amp; Rinca costs somewhere like 800 ' 000 IDR ( , and a day dive ( 3 dives ) costs around 1.2 millions ( + 175 ' 000 IDR park entrance fee for each day ) . So a total close to 4 millions IDR ( 100 ' 000 x 3 + 800 ' 000 + 1 ' 200 ' 000 x 2 + 175 ' 000 x 2 ) . That 's a lot of money for Indonesian standards but you 'll have a blast . Another solution is to jump on a liveaboard trip ( 3 days should be enough but do longer if you want to dive more ) , also going to Komodo &amp; Rinca island but also doing all the dives . This would be more expensive , in 2015 prices start at 600 USD for 3 days ( around 8 millions IDR ) but it 'd definitely be a much more awesome experience . Apart from the fun/pleasure of being on a sailing boat in an incredible place , you 'd have the advantage of being able to dive early in the morning ( 7 or 8am ) to enjoy the best conditions &amp; have the opportunity to do night dives . Oh , and you wo n't miss a thing by not seeing much ( or anything ) of Labuan Bajo . Resources <URL> <URL> <URL>
end question
start question
How to travel on horseback ?
I 've just come from there . Something interesting to note - unless you go really touristy - Mongolians traditionally use wooden saddles , something I was NOT expecting to see :) They and Kyrgyzstan share quite a lot of the same culture , including horse riding , and the nomadic / semi nomadic lifestyle . But at least the Kyrgs do n't use wooden saddles ;) In both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan ( and indeed in parts of Kazakhstan and Siberia ) there were frequent horse riding opportunities - from a few hours to several days . I 'd decide first what terrain you 'd like to do it on ( bearing in mind it can get quite painful in the saddle if it 's new to you ) , and then find a country with that . Both Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan are fairly cheap to live in , but the tourist activities in Mongolia struck me as being very overpriced . I preferred Kyrgyzstan for the CBT approach ( Comunity Based Tourism ) . You can email the CBT and ask about tours or suggestions . From what I saw , I 'd suggest perhaps doing it from Cholpon-Ata just near Lake Izzyk-Kul . It 's a beautiful region and has both options of steep rides or open plains . And the opportunities are certainly cheaper , and you can recover afterwards on the beaches by the lake :)
I called the passenger information number in Immingham and spoke with a live agent ... Foot passengers who do not have a vehicle will not be permitted to board on either side ; Passengers on push bikes may be permitted to board in the Immingham , unclear for the Brevik side ; The entry point in Immingham is covered by the same <URL> governing airlines , so the <URL> will be alerted from Brevik if they are carrying non-EEA passengers .
Yep , that 's it . You apply online and get approved , and pay online . You can print it off if it gives you some more anxiety , but literally when I 've used it , I walk up , the official goes " do you have a visa or are you on ESTA ? " , and he scans the passport and has always found it . I 've usually had the approval number or whatever on me , but I 've never needed to show it . The airline might ask for evidence of it , however . It 's pretty smooth , I get more questions about what I plan on doing in the US , rather than how I enter it . Note that it 's <URL> . As an aside it 's reasonably easy to get info on this online from the official sites : From <URL> : It is important to PRINT a copy of the document for your records . The printout is not required upon arrival into the United States , as the officers have the information electronically . Some airlines require the printout upon check-in , please check with your respective airline . and also <URL> : Do I need to bring a printed copy of my ESTA application with me to the airport ? U.S. regulation does NOT require a Visa Waiver Program ( VWP ) traveler to present a printed copy of the ESTA authorization page in order to travel . However , it is recommended that you print a copy for your records . Also , some airlines may ask you to bring a copy , in which case you should print it out . If you applied for ESTA and you have forgotten your application number , you may retrieve the application through the ESTA website by entering the applicants name , date of birth , passport number and passport issuing country .
So I 've just been there and back , and I 'm posting a bit more info in case it 's useful to someone else . The single trip using public transport does take something between 2.5 and 3 hours , and cost in total between $ 18 - $ 22 ( single trip ) , but is definitely doable and convenient , particularly if you are travelling alone and with not much luggage . First one has to get from the airport ( IAD ) to Washington D.C. For these either the <URL> ( to West Falls Church ) or the <URL> ( to Rosslyn ) seem convenient . I decided to go for the Flyer bus , which costs $ 18 round trip ( you can return at anytime within one month ) and runs every half an hour ( on the 15 and 45 every hour ) . On retrospect , the Metrobus might be a ( slightly ) better choice , as then I would get at least a chance to " see " a bit of DC since Rosslyn is closer to the center of the city , but anyway . Either way , now one has to cross the city using the metro , most likely using the Orange line to New Carrollton . Make sure to have small notes to <URL> on the machine . How it works is that you look up your destination on a list on the machine , identify the fare that you must pay ( chances are that you have to pay the peak fare and add an extra $ 1 for the paper ticket ) , select that amount on the machine and enter then the bank notes . From West Falls Church to New Carrollton I paid $ 6.75 ( and the same when coming back ) . At New Carrollton you can then take the <URL> to Annapolis which costs $ 5 a ride . This one was a bit tricky , first you have to exit the metro station through the south exit onto a big parking lot . You will see several bus stops , with maps and clearly marked signs of the bus routes stopping there ; but 921 does not stop on any of those . It stops at some at some nondescript " kiss and go " area within the parking lot , only some small numbered stickers " 921 " will give you an indication that this is the place to wait . The small white bus/van itself is also rather nondescript , it may or may not say " Annapolis " on the side . Anyway , the people around and the drivers were typically nice and helpful , so ask if in doubt . It might also come handy to have with you <URL> , as this bus does n't run often , and you might have to wait some time . The return trip works easy as well , following the same instructions in reverse order . It might only be helpful to know that the bus stops for 921 in Annapolis are similarly rather nondescript , sometimes the only indication is a sign with the YTS logo . Also the bus might be late ( once I waited some 10-15 minutes ) , so allow yourself some extra time for the travel , do n't make too tight a plan if you need to catch a plane . As I said , although it takes a bit of time , the trip is somewhat cheap and convenient . Specially if you are travelling light . I did ask at the counter of the SuperShuttle , but the price for a single trip would have been of $ 70 . This might make more sense only if you are travelling as part of a big party and you can split the costs among yourselves .
I did this two and a half years ago , and took a 75L pack and a day pack . My friend also had one , and the six others in our group also had backpacks plus odds and ends . There was no problem . However , the train was also only half full ( October ) . I imagine the rules are there so that in the peak season , if it 's busy they can then start enforcing them . So short answer - it depends on when you go , and what staff you get , and how full the train is :)
The website I prefer for UK train timetables is <URL> . One of it 's handy features is being able to look up the last train of the day , for example <URL> . As Roflcoptr pointed out , the last weekday train at the moment is the 22:35 , which gets you into Cambridge at 01:22 ( via a cross London transfer to Kings Cross ) . You might just be able to get away with the 22:50 from Gatwick , if you have n't got too much luggage . The 22:50 gets into London Victoria at 23:20 , which gives you 40 minutes to get down to the tube , wait for a tube , travel 5 stops , and get up to the station . Fine if there are no problems and you 're not too bad for luggage , but ca n't be guaranteed ... Otherwise , it 's a National Express coach to London , then change onto a different National Express coach to Cambridge . The website for looking up times and prices is <URL> . Does n't look good though , leaving Gatwick at 23:40 today wo n't get you to Cambridge until about 5am ...
Yes , you can , and I have , as evidence . I flew a very similar route , from Austin to Phoenix , and then on to San Fran . I 've also done other internal flights . All on the Visa-Waiver Program . The visa-waiver is a check done at the international border , as you enter the US from another country . Once you 're within the strict US border , you 're permitted to travel ( legally ) however you want , wherever you want . You may still <URL> , but the visa-waiver aspect wo n't be checked by immigration - it 's simply an ID check by ticket and gate agents at the airport .
You can go the airport 's website . There you will usually find a list with the departures and the arrivals of the day and sometimes even the seasonal flight plan in pdf format . For Zurich , have a look at <URL> . Some airports have apps for smartphones and/or mobile versions of their websites which show live departures and arrivals.If you have a smartphone , you can then check immediately . This only works for commercial passenger flights . For cargo flights or private flights you will have to stick to a more classical method , and use e.g. an airliner identification book . For a recommendation , you could ask on a dedicated site , such as e.g. <URL> . Obviously , with this method you wo n't find out anything about destination or the provenance of the aircraft .
As with airlines , cruise lines each have their own regulations . It appears to be fairly common that pregnancies later than 24 weeks ( = 6 months , i.e. 3rd trimester ) are disallowed , or at least discouraged . This is earlier than for travelling by plane . <URL> has an extensive list of regulations , though it may be advisable to contact the cruise line directly .
I 've found ( anecdotally ) that initially in London , the walking times were way too slow - I was beating the times regularly . Then I moved to Vancouver and found them too fast . I 'm a quick walker , so was n't sure what was happening . I eventually figured it was down to knowledge . I ' knew ' London far better , and even though I might be using a map , I could navigate the crowds , the streets and so on far better than in Vancouver , where I was regularly having to check landmarks . When it comes to driving , the Google Maps times are best possible times . So it 's assuming you can drive at basically the speed limit all the time . It gives no thought to inevitable traffic problems ( they 're improving that , especially in cities , but it 's not there yet ) , and as you 've pointed out wo n't handle rest times . I drove from Melbourne to Sydney ( Australia ) this year and the times were definitely low . I wanted to stop for lunch , or briefly check out some sightseeing spots , sure , but even the sections where I was just driving ( week day , during the day ) in a car I was n't used to , on roads I was n't used to , the estimates were n't ideal . Perhaps if you speed , or are really used to driving on Japanese roads it 'd be more accurate , but currently it 's a best-case , for the most part . ( disclaimer : this post will outdate as Google improves , but that 's the situation to the best of my knowledge currently ) EDIT : Someone did a pretty good breakdown , and a discussion follows , on this topic on reddit ( it was about why speeding seemed to match the accuracy ) . Some of the discussion will be of interest : <URL> Further relevant posts , linked from that discussion : <URL> and how they 're trying to use your data to improve their algorithms : <URL>
The statement ' there is no speed limit on the Autobahn ' is not really correct . I could n't find any official statistics , but I 've seen a number of only 50 % of German Autobahns without any limit . Many parts have a permanent limits of 120 or 130 km/h ( 74 mph or 81 mph ) . Some parts are limited to 80 ( 50 mph ) due to construction work . Also , some limits are only for wet roads . Finally many parts have dynamic speed limit signs that change based on the traffic situation . Even though there is no general limit for the 50 % , there is a recommended speed of 130 km/h ( 81 mph ) . If you are going much faster and there is an accident , it is more likely you are blamed for it ( if you survive it , which is unlikely ) . Autobahn police can still pull you over for reckless driving or driving too fast in certain situations even when there was no limit . How fast may you drive on the Autobahn ? This really depends on the situation , there are some stretches in less populated areas that get relatively light traffic and you can drive 200 km/h ( 125 mph ) with no problem . It also depends on the time of day . There is rush hour traffic that limits your speed anyways . Late at night it is usually empty and you can go fast . It also depends on you car , it makes a big difference if you go 200 km/h in a big BMW or Porsche or a smaller older car . It is also much more tiring to go fast , you have to concentrate much more at 200 than 120 because any tiny mistake has much bigger consequences . I had several friends visiting from overseas , renting a car and then were too scared to drive really fast . If you are planning to go fast , start with a speed you are comfortable with from home and then increase it over time . Do n't go 230 km/h ( 143 mph ) as soon as you hit the Autobahn for the first time .
The short answer is : depends . There are multiple discussions on <URL> regarding the subject . One from <URL> and another from <URL> . General consensus is that it is not possible with few exceptions : Accompanying live cargo Being an employee of the company flying the cargo In the remote areas like Alaska it may be possible to be flying a half and half plane . Half cargo - Half passenger . You are an airline crew member or a courier in that case you can request a <URL> ( maybe someone can enlighten me what Groom means here ) Save those you are likely to be denied access to the plane
Certain large travel agents negotiate <URL> with airlines . The link is a few years old but I do n't think there is anything significantly out of date : A consolidator will have a contract to sell private fares at a lower price than the published fare . If there 's a printed ticket , only " bulk " generally appears on the receipt . They generally ca n't - or wo n't - sell the ticket straight to you , but will offer it through a travel agent ( including an online travel agent such as Travelocity or Expedia ) , or agencies such as the ones that advertise in Sunday newspaper travel sections . The agent adds their markup - keeping the margin slim so they 're not out-priced by published fares - and passes the remaining savings on to you . True consolidators do n't buy in quantity or ahead of time . Rather , they pull availability from their assigned class until the airline decides to close the window . Wikipedia 's <URL> on the same : An airline consolidator is a wholesaler of airline tickets . Airlines use consolidators as a means to reach out to more niche target audiences , and by offering discounts and fare flexibility that is relevant to the target group . Consolidators work through contracts with major carriers to sell at reduced prices
Here are some of the main signs I would look out for to decide if a review is fake . ( note : updated with some points taken from a study on the matter ) Overly hyped . While it is certainly possible that someone had an amazing time , the more hyped the review looks the more likely it is fake . " Fake reviewers tend to overdo " self-referencing " , that is , they overuse words such as " I " , " me " , " my " , " mime " , as if they try to underline their existence and credibility . " <URL> ( note : I changed this point following feedback in the comments ) Hotel jargon . " They have eight spacious twin suites with amazing views " . Unlikely a real guest would write that . Sudden burst of posts . If there are n't many reviews for the property and then all of a sudden there 's a bunch of new ones . It looks like someone decided to go bump up their rating . No background for the reviewer . If it 's the only place they reviewed , it takes away from the trust . Glaringly different from other reviews . Unless there 's been a renovation or change of management , generally speaking reviews are relatively consistent . Truthful reviewers tend to " focus on spatial details ( e.g. , bathroom , floor , small , location ) of their experience , while deceptive reviewers have difficulties in filling in spatial information . As a result , deceptive reviewers will focus on other types of information , such as why they went to Chicago ( e.g. , vacation , business ) , or whom they went with ( e.g. , family , husband ) . " <URL> " Deceptive reviews demonstrate the characteristics of imaginative writing , i.e. , frequent usage of verbs and adverbs , while truthful reviews demonstrate the characteristics of informative writing , i.e. , frequent usage of nouns and adjective ( except superlatives ) " <URL> In the end , you just need to look at the balance of evidence and decide for yourself if the person is worth trusting or not .
There are no international standards for airline transport of musical instruments . Each airline has its own policy as to what it will or wo n't accept as checked or cabin luggage , what its dimensions are or how large or heavy it can be , how much insurance might be required , what the baggage fee would be , and so on . So unfortunately , you will need to check with every airline in your itinerary as to their policies and fees . Bringing instruments on as hand luggage adds day-of-travel concerns as well ; if the scheduled plane is swapped for a smaller one at the last minute , you may no longer be able to take it aboard , or if you arrive late at a connection and all the overhead bin and other storage space is occupied , you 'd be asked to check the instrument or have to be rescheduled for a later flight . If you search around the web you will find innumerable horror stories ( one incident <URL> not long ago , although in fairness it could have happened on any airline ) . But you 'll also find personal accounts like <URL> ; newspaper articles like <URL> or this <URL> ; tips from musicians ' organizations such as the lists by the <URL> ; suggestions from manufacturers and retailers like <URL> ; and independent resources like <URL> . To summarize some of the common tips , consider the following : Contact each airline and explain you will be traveling with an instrument . For example , an airline might allow you to purchase an extra seat for a tuba or a bass , but may allow only one instrument per flight , which wo n't be obvious when you book online . For many airlines it is not possible to reserve an extra seat for a single person , meaning you will need to call and get a seat assignment anyway . Invest in a good travel case . Even though some instruments may be able to fit into standard luggage , they will generate less suspicion from security and more sympathy from gate agents and flight attendants if stored in a proper instrument case , not to mention enjoy better protection . The smallest case that will fit the instrument is advisable ; while that means it has less space for tools or cleaning fluids , those are probably best packed separately anyway as they can cause security screening delays . Purchase sufficient insurance . Be prepared to purchase an extra seat for it , if it is larger than a cello and you do n't want to check it . Some airlines forbid this , others require it . Be prepared and be patient . Bring printouts of each airline 's musical instrument policy . Arrive early and board as early as possible to maximize your storage options . But above all be friendly and patient with all airport , security , and airline personnel ; they can make any traveler 's experience difficult , but passengers with special requirements are an easier target . Within the United States , airlines are subject to federal <URL> requiring them to accept musical instruments as checked or carry-on luggage . One more thing : your instrument may be able to collect frequent flyer miles , but not always , and it 's become <URL> for airlines . Given all of that , it may be worth considering traveling with a backup instrument instead of your favorite , to borrow or rent an instrument at your destination , or use an alternative instrument ( e.g. a travel electric bass instead of your regular double bass ) . Of course , none of these options is a slam dunk , either .
After living in the USA for over 10 years , I moved to Europe . I did consider bringing my car from the USA to Europe , however later rejected that idea . Yet in the process I did look into various options . There are several shipping companies that will ship vehicles across the Atlantic , usually inside containers on a ship , but for the right price they 'll do air shipments too . Once the vehicle is in Europe , the same rules apply as for any other vehicles registered outside the country : you must re-register it in your the country of residence within a predefined period of time ( usually 1 year , but it varies by country ) , do required adjustments if necessary ( e.g. rules on turn signals being yellow/amber vs. allowed red colour in the USA ) , etc. . The most important one is that the vehicle is not allowed to remain within the country for over that predefined period without leaving the country or being re-registered there . Usually , it 's the diplomatic staff that bring their cars over from USA to Europe , as the department of foreign affairs ( read - taxpayers ) is paying for moving all their stuff across . However anybody can do it , really . So , the simple answer is - there are shipping companies that will do this for you . The cost is usually in the area of about $ 2000 for a simple car and growing for something bigger or more expensive ( because of higher insurance premiums ) . In addition to that , vehicles registered to US army will have plates of the home base location - and these vehicles would have also been shipped to Europe , but paid for by the Army ( read - taxpayers again ) .
To avoid disturbance from small children , you can use a multi-pronged approach : first , try to choose flights that are more of a hassle for parents . Generally this means night flights - some parents may be sure their child will sleep ( and not bother you ) but others are worried the child will not sleep and will cry . So they take a daytime flight and are willing to entertain them for the length of the flight second , try to minimize the impact of the child on you . Buy a more expensive ticket - first , business , even economy plus . Children are of course allowed in the more expensive zones , but they are in substantially fewer numbers . In some cases these children are experienced and quiet flyers , accompanying parents who have been kept awake by other people 's children in the past . And do what you can to improve things at whatever seat you have . Bring noise cancelling headphones in addition to earplugs , for example . Bring some sort of music you can play that will drown out the repetitive reading . third , try to react in the moment in some way that is more positive than sitting in your seat seething . Go for a walk . Strike up a conversation elsewhere on the plane . Turn around and interact with the child , such as playing peek a boo over the back of your seat . It 's probably likely to be quieter than the reading and even endear you to the parents . Tell the child your name and ask theirs , and smile . If in a few hours you want to ask the parents if there 's a quieter form of entertainment available , you wo n't be the grumpy gus in the next row , you 'll be the toddler 's airplane friend . fourth , try to be realistic . No toddler does anything for 12 hours . They nap , they eat and drink , and so on . Focusing on the behavior that irritates you , to the extent you genuinely recall that it took the entire flight time , leaves you with a bad cloud around you that can take days to shake . When the noise starts , tell yourself it wo n't last the whole flight . Do something positive , listen to something , take yourself away from the noise . When the noise stops , be grateful , even if it 's just a short respite . And finally , when you leave the plane , be grateful that you are now done with that child and do n't have to hear the noise or put in any effort to try to prevent bedlam . The parents will still be on duty for hours more today , and for another few decades in general . Count your blessings !
For starters your friend does not get a VOA ( Visa on Arrival ) , rather he enters under the Visa Waiver program as a Canadian citizen . Which , as you likely know , gives him a 30 day entry stamp each time he comes . His criminal record in Canada is not available to immigration officials in Thailand , unless they have requested it from the Canadian government , which is highly unlikely since he has never been in Thailand before . If he applies for a 60 day Tourist Visa in advance , then the Thailand Embassy in Canada may request and consider his criminal record . The same would apply to any other country which requires him to apply in advance for a tourist visa . For VOAs in neighboring countries ( Cambodia , Laos ) , the visa is issued based supplied information on the application form and any data in that country 's immigration system from previous visits . The immigration officials do not have access to nor the time to comb through other country 's criminal records .
Generally speaking German IC and ICE are somewhat comparable to Dutch IC in that they do not stop at every station along the way . Their comfort level is higher ( often with a bar/restaurant and always the possibility to reserve a seat ) which make them feel more luxurious than Dutch trains but they are not really " exclusive " . Like TGV in France , ICE are in fact very common , gradually replacing IC on many lines so planning around them is difficult . Practicality of regional trains to cover long distances is going to depend on the precise time and destination . As an example , a quick search on bahn.de shows that Hengelo to Stettin is about 11 hours with 5 to 7 changes . You can reach the same destination in less than 8 hours , with two changes using the Amsterdam-Berlin direct train . If you travel alone and are able to book in advance , the price difference is not big : 39 $ to Berlin from any station in the Netherlands plus 10 $ for the Berlin-Stettin-Ticket , which works out to 8 $ more than the schönes Wochende Ticket . Following the same idea , you can also cross the Dutch border with a regional train or by some other means and book a Europa-Spezial ticket from the first German train station to Poland ( <URL> ) , also for 39 $ . You do n't even need to stop near the border , from Berlin you can get a connection all the way to Gdańsk , Warsaw or Kraków with the same ticket . You can travel on a week day as well so this solution is a lot more flexible and comfortable for a very small price difference . However , for several people , the price difference would be significant because one of the main advantage of the schönes Wochende Ticket is that a whole family or a small group ( up to 5 people ) can travel with one ticket .
According to Visa Waiver Program <URL> ( I assume you can join the Visa Waiver Program ) Passport validity The standard requirement for passport validity is 6 months beyond the expected date of departure from the United States . However , the US has signed agreements with a number of countries to waive this requirement . <URL>
end question
start question
Japan hotels sold out March/April 2017 ?
You 're trying to book too far out . Many Japanese hotels , especially those not associated with Western chains , only accept bookings for the current and following quarter , meaning rooms for April 2017 may not be released until January 2017 . That said , cherry blossom season is busy , so booking in advance is advisable . If there 's a particular hotel you 're desperate to stay in , contacting them directly via email or phone may be an option .
Yes , not because the bars and hotels want to check it ( some will ) , but because the police have the authority to stop you in the street and demand identification and the proof that you are staying in Japan legally . Source : got checked for passport in JR Tokyo Station .
It depends on the hotel . Upscale ones , especially if they 're western brands , will generally have western style ( sit ) toilets . Cheap hotels , especially if they 're local or not a chain , will generally have eastern style ( squat ) toilets . It 's easy to find your preferred style if you know where to look and can identify the clientele the hotel caters to . A large hotel might offer both styles , though I do n't know of any that do . For your specific case , the Sheraton has western style toilets , as you can see from <URL> ( in the center of the mirror , underneath the flowers , partially obscured by the sink 's reflection ) : <URL>
The site explains : If all the times are taken , the following message will be displayed : " no tickets available for the date requested " . Choose another day ( or purchase your ticket for immediate entry at the monument ticket counters ) . That says to me that if you ca n't buy online , you can still go up , but you 'll have to wait in a ( possibly long ) line . This is a Monday morning , 9 years ago - I would n't mind waiting in this line ( in fact , I waited in one just like it before I got the picture ) : However , it can clearly get <URL> . Investigate those pictures more closely to see what your chances might be like on a weekend .
In my experience of travelling to the USA on an ESTA Visa from Europe you are asked you to write the address that you will be staying your first night in the USA , be it a hotel , friends house or family residence on the customs and border protection form . The immigration officer asks to see this form and stamps it . You are then let into the country and hand this form to an official before you exit the baggage hall . How much checking of that address they do , or even if it is recorded , I do not know . I get this address wrong most of the time anyway and I have never had any trouble . I imagine if this is left blank and you are asked and reply you do not know where you are staying then alarm bells will begin to ring for for the immigration officer . Even if you are travelling around America by rental car it would probably be best to have a pre-booked hotel for one night after a long haul flight anyway . Safety first !
The answer depends on ( at least ) two things . Whether you want to do the ' proper ' Inca trail or one of the alternatives and what time of the year you are going . If you want to do the proper trail in high season you should book in advanced . Sometimes it is fully booked for 3 months . I was there in October ( not high season ) and I stayed in Cusco for two weeks anyways . There was a waiting time of 11 days for the proper trail , which in the end I did not do . The waiting time may be too long for most people anyways . For the alternative trails , most of them are not even limited to a certain number of people , so it is much easier to get on them . I think I booked mine in Cusco the evening before we left . Again this depends on when you are there , April is not super high season , but I think it gets busier . But I expect you can still get on a tour fairly easily . As usual , it also depends on the size of your group . It is much easier if you are alone or a couple compared to a family of eight . I ca n't compare the main Inca trail with any of the other ones , because I only did one . But I have n't heard anything about the alternatives being really shitty .
There is a distilled version of the laws available for <URL> or some <URL> : Owning Pets Animals in Japan Information on the rules and regulations related to owning and caring for cats , dogs and other pet animals in Japan ... Most municipalities in Japan require a new pet dog to be registered within 30 days from the date of ownership . Registration is carried out at the local municipal office or ward office in the municipality in which the owner resides . In most cases , proof of identity of the owner is required ; check with the local office for any additional document requirements . Once registration is complete a dog licence tag is provided , which should be attached to the dog 's collar . Any change in address , ownership or in the event of the dog 's death must be reported to the ward office . In addition , the municipality can assist with proper disposal of deceased dogs . Buying Pets Not all apartment buildings accept pets . Before purchasing a pet , check the lease agreement , or consult the landlord . Vaccinations Dogs must be vaccinated against rabies each year between 1 April and 30 June . Also , newly acquired dogs must be vaccinated within 30 days of ownership if it is over 90 days old . The rabies vaccination tag should be attached to the dog 's collar . Other vaccinations are not required by law ; however , they are recommended for the continued health of the dog . One exception is for imported dogs , which must be up to date with vaccinations . For further information , see the section on Importing Pets &amp; Animals to Japan Dogs in Public Places Dogs must be kept on a leash when out for a walk . Dogs are generally not allowed in restaurants and shops . Small pets are allowed on public transport in a carrier . Guide dogs are permitted on public transport . The owner is responsible for cleaning up after their dog . There are no restricted dog breeds in Japan . Information for Cat Owners The Tokyo Metropolitan Government recommends that cat owners : Keep their cat inside the home Sterilise/neuter/spay the cat . Some municipal offices help pay part of the fee for neutering the cat Use a collar marked with the address and name of the owner In addition , the local municipal office can assist in the proper disposal of deceased cats . Vaccinations for cats are not required by law ; however , they are recommended for the cat 's long-term health . Other Pet Animals Dogs and cats are the most popular pets in Tokyo . However , due to many landlords restricting dog and cat ownership , smaller pets are also popular including fish , turtles , hamsters and ferrets . Certain animals are categorised as special animals and require permission to own in Japan . These restricted special animals are generally those that can attack people such as monkeys , eagles , hawks , crocodiles and snakes . Permission to own these animals is required from the local municipality office .
I could n't find anything in Japan - my Japanese is n't that great , and search results are mainly about an apparently new fad called " water jump " , which seems to consist of riding a snowboard down a rather small ramp into a lake or pool . Here 's two event agencies offering two-day ski jumping lessons in Germany or Austria : <URL> <URL>
Summary : I think your best bet is to look up the price for a slightly shortened trip on <URL> , from the first train 's first stop to the last train 's next-to-last stop . You can find non-TGV prices on Rail Europe as well . I just went to <URL> , entered Paris to Grenoble and clicked on " check fares " . As you can see , the cheapest fare if you book now is slightly cheaper than the TER fare ( which you can get on an open ticket , but only at a station , not online ) . However , I do n't know how reliable this far is , especially since I did n't even manage to display it in EUR . Rail Europe tends to have a markup ; I 'm not sure if this markup is consistent between modes . On <URL> , there indeed seems to be no way to select only trains without compulsory booking ( TER and Intercités , not Teoz ) . The <URL> website does n't have rates , but anyway there are n't any Intercités involved in a trip between Paris and Grenoble , only TGV or TER . You can look up the price of TER on each regional website , accessed from the <URL> . It takes a lot of clicks and it 's in French . Eventually you might be able to find prices for each leg of your journey ( I 'm not even sure of that , for trains that cross several regions there may be cases where you ca n't know the price for a span that crosses a region border ) . Rates are degressive , so the price from your origin to your destination will be slightly less than the sum of the prices of each leg . You may be able to get a rough idea of prices if you split your journey into several legs for which TGV does n't make sense . For example , you can see from the schedules on the DB website that the first stop after Paris on the Paris to Grenoble by TER trip is Sens , and the last stop before Grenoble is Voiron ; if you ask Voyages-SNCF to go from Sens to Voiron , you 'll get prices for the TER-only trip . Rates are degressive , so the price for Paris to Grenoble will be only a little more . Sorry for the suckiness of SNCF 's web sites , it 's very well-known in France . Your best bet to find prices is at a station . Ask an employee , as the machines are n't always able to find trip possibilities that are n't the fastest . In any case , for a trip where you do n't book in advance , you 'll often have to buy your ticket at the station .
I looked at <URL> 's English and Japanese-language web sites , but neither of them appears to have any weather alerts , nor even any section for weather information or cancellations . Your best bet for accurate information , then , is probably to call them ( 092-281-2315 ) . That said , based on the weather prediction , I expect you 're going to be cutting it very close . The Beetle does claim a <URL> and the ability to operate in <URL> , so I expect that they will operate right to those limits . I would n't expect the final decision to run or cancel your particular ferry to be made until the last minute , taking into account weather conditions at the time .
Shinto is at heart an animist religion that imbues many natural features ( rivers , trees , mountains ) with spirits , and Japanese buddhism has been influenced heavily by this , so yes , " sacred mountains " are pretty common in Japan . For Buddhism , sacredness is usually centered around places where famous Buddhist teachers lived , taught or are buried . The two religions are very much mixed , and it is common to have small Shinto shrines within a larger Buddhist temple , and vice versa . One famous sacred mountain ( group of , actually ) is <URL> , reachable from Osaka by a 1.5 hour ( very sceninc ) train ride . It 's actually a small town next to the burial place of the founder of an important Buddhist sect . The town has a large number of temples , many of which have rooms for guests to stay in ( basically like hotels ) , and I very much recommend staying for at least one night . The area around the town has some nice hiking trails , but do n't expect alpine conditions or grand panoramic views ( the mountains are not high enough for that ) . If you want a bit of a challenge , you can walk <URL> , which is over 20km long ( but only 600 meters of altitude difference ) . You could do this to get there ( instead of the final leg of the train ride ) , but plan for 7 hours walking time . Out of Tokyo , there is <URL> , not really a sacred mountain as such , but a mountainous area which has a number of important shrines and temples ( including the burial place of the founder of the Tokugawa Shogunate ) , and lies next to a national park with great scenery ( including a lake and a famous waterfall ) and hiking trails . Scenery-wise , this is probably the better choice . Be aware that both of these are major tourist destinations - you wo n't be alone ( except on the hiking trails ; the Japanese do n't seem to be much into hiking ) .
Ask at your hotel or hostel . I work in a hostel and we have about four sets of scales so guests can make sure their luggage wo n't be over the weight limit for their flight . I 'm sure we 're not unique in this regard .
Foreigners in transit in China with booked itineraries departing within 24 hours and not wishing to leave the transit area of the airport do not need a visa , according to <URL> : Visa Exemption 2 . For Direct Transit No visa is required for foreigners who hold tickets to the final destination and have booked seats on international airlines , ships , trains transiting directly through China , and will stay for less than 24 hours and do not leave the specified transit area . Foreigners are able to apply for a Temporary Entry Permit to leave the port for city sightseeing or going to a dock or a railway station . Those who transfer in two cities of China within 24 hours are also available to enjoy this policy . For instance , if one 's trip is Los Angeles -- Beijing -- Kunming -- Chiengmai and the time in China is less than 24 hours , the passenger can enjoy the direct transit . This is also confirmed by <URL> : Visas are not required of aliens ( includes Indonesian ) , who hold final destination tickets and have booked seats on international airliners flying directly through China , and will stay in a transit city for less than 24 hours without leaving the airport .
Driving from Liverpool into North Wales is a pretty poor choice , as you end up paying the toll in the Mersey Tunnel , then driving most of the way to Chester to cross the Dee , so you 're adding a lot of miles to your drive for no particular benefit . Chester is a reasonable choice , but you 're going to do a lot of miles on the A55 across North Wales before you get to any of the places that you 're interested in getting to . Given UK fuel prices , that 's adding cost without any good reason . I would suggest Llandudno . Google Maps has eleven car rental locations in Llandudno , which should be enough competition to keep prices sensible , and there are <URL> ( taking three hours ) every day from London Euston . Llandudno Junction Station is three miles from the centre of Llandudno , but there are two car-hire places - an Avis and an Enterprise - directly outside the station . Make sure you book for the ( small ) town of Llandudno Junction rather than the ( larger ) town of Llandudno
The airline can move passengers around , even if they have chosen seats ( you 'll always see the disclaimer when you choose a seat online ) - whereas the online booking system wo n't necessarily know if it can do this . Also , the airline may have more up to date knowledge of cancellations at that stage . So the problem is n't the airline making it look like there are few remaining seats , but that the system wo n't let you move other passengers in order to fit a group in at short notice . When I make late bookings with the family , I just plan for the fact that we may all have to sit in different areas on the plane . Sometimes it can be sorted , but certainly not every time . That 's the hazard of late booking .
There is for example this company that has <URL> where they list all the coin-laundries ( コインランドリー ) . You will have to know how to read addresses in Japanese at least to use this . There are tons of others , also usually found in remote areas : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( google for コインランドリー 店舗一覧 to find more ) In terms of washing , there is nothing to worry about . Everything works just as fine as hot water and pretty much the same . I found <URL> that says that you can compensate for the temperature by either longer washing or stronger chemicals . I am not 100 % certain what the norm is in Japan . I would google translate the most important terms though or ask someone who speaks english to come with you the first time . I would not expect anyone in these shops to speak english or any of the buttons on the machine to be english . The only thing is that Japanese detergent usually are not smelling " nice " . They have a rather chemical smell . It seems that Japanese consumers relate a chemical detergent smell more to " clean " than something flowery .
Tower 23 Hotel 723 Felspar Street , Pacific Beach , CA 92109 San Diego Follow this link : <URL> The price is around 199 USD/night ( from booking.com ) and the booking.com review score is 8.5 . It also states that " Guests at Tower 23 are surrounded by a large variety of recreational activities . Hiking trails , fishing , golf , surfing and whale watching are only minutes from the front doors " from what I searched in Google , it seems that you can surf in Mission Bay which is very near to the hotel . if you click the review section , a couple from Germany also stated " ... direct view from the balconary to the sea ; a lot of surfers in front of the hotel ... "
Apparently , it 's complicated . The safest border crossing is Puerto Carreño to Puerto Ayacucho by boat . Before you go in Colombia , do these : DIAN ( Colombian customs department ) to make sure all your car papers are in order . Venezuelan consulate to get a form with all the current requisites for crossing your vehicle ( <URL> ) . Later [ the site which I am referencing from ] learned that we needed two additional papers : a Venezuelan third-party insurance ( easy to obtain , more on that below ) and an invoice of the purchase of our car . Immigration to stamp your passport . SIJIN department of Police , to get a VIN rub of your car 's chassis number . Then buy a Venezuelan insurance and go to SENIAT , Venzuelan customs . Once done , boat over , then 100 kms to Puerto Ayacucho to get your passport stamped ( three months for Europeans , free of charge ) . Reference from <URL>
Recently I was watching luggage handlers loading luggage into my plane at Amsterdam Schiphol while I was queueing to board ( 20-30 minutes before takeoff ) . There was a female luggage handler who started unloading a luggage-cart train starting form the last cart . She was very slow and would pick up only smaller pieces . I suppose she was waiting for males to help her with the heavier ones . Smaller as well as soft pieces were actually stacked on top of the carts while the massive hardcases would lie at the bottom of the carts . Clearly some sorting must have been done while loading ( which was reassuring since I was traveling with a soft backpack ) . As I did n't see my luggage there , I suppose it had already been loaded ( I had a 2.5 h transfer at Schiphol ) . However , at the luggage reclaim I got my luggage quite quickly . Interestingly , I met a traveller who had exactly the same flights as me and when I was leaving the airport he was still waiting for his piece . One of differences was - I had a backpack while he had a regular suitcase . My point is , I saw only a small part of the whole process , yet there was plenty of room for scrambling the order . It is mostly manual work done by a number of individuals and I guess that makes it pretty unpredictable . As for the backpacks - I mentioned that as I came across several airports where they have separate bag drops for backpacks with loose straps so I assume there might be different ways of handling these . However , I have n't noticed or heard of any ( dis ) advantages of having this type of luggage . Finally , I kind of accepted that it is a pure chance when I reclaim my luggage and I usually try to do a little trick . I just get busy with various things between the landing and reclaiming the luggage . During that time I tidy up my hand luggage , change clothes when going to warmer/colder places , tidy up my wallet - replacing currencies , preparing bus tickets etc. , go to bathroom to refresh myself , be it makeup or brushing my teeth , also , after a long flight it is nice to do some stretching . Playing with the phone is fine too - change a SIM card , maybe look for a socket to charge it a bit . After completing all these things I approach a baggage reclaim place full of impatient people waiting there already for ages . For me it is only the beginning of waiting and typically I get my luggage within a few minutes and my nerves are saved .
It 's a pub staffed by Filipina hostesses . All offer drinks and conversation , most do karaoke ( Filipinos love their karaoke ! ) , some have dancing and shows . The term itself does n't connotate sexual services , although the virtue of some ladies may well be negotiable after-hours . The phenomenon started when the bursting of Japan 's economic bubble led to a steep fall in Japanese visitors to the Philippines , leading many of the people in the industry that had developed there to try their luck in Japan instead . The Philippine pub boom reached its peak in 2004 , when there were over 80,000 Filipino women in Japan on " entertainer " visas . Shortly thereafter , Japan landed on a human trafficking watchlist and started cracking down heavily on these visas , so much that by 2007 they became effectively impossible to obtain . Some pubs scraped by through finding staff who were either married to Japanese ( for real or otherwise ) , had legal working status via some other means , abusing tourist visas or simply overstaying illegally , but obviously this put a big crimp on the industry and there are n't that many left . ( Most of the above freely translated from <URL> on the Japanese Wikipedia . ) And yes , foreigners are generally welcome , probably more so than at your average Japanese bar since most Filipinas speak decent English . But I suspect I 'm not entirely alone in not really understanding the attraction of paying fairly sizable amounts of money to drink with people who are employed to pretend to like me ...
end question
start question
How shall we travel from Milan to Rome in 8 days ?
It 's not very clear what you mean with " explore the area between " since you will spend all days in cities . Anyway , since I guess it just means how to move from Milano to Roma , you have possibly two ways : Trains : on that route you can take the FRECCIA ROSSA which is a somewhat new train ( for Italians standard ) with wifi on board , nice seats and so on . It is usually on time ( again , for Italians standard ) and can deliver you from Milano to Roma in 3 hours and 30 mins . If you plan to book at least one month in advance you may find conveniet prices . Check the <URL> site for all the info you need . The same train stops in Firenze too . Renting a car . Depending on your ticket prices you may end up spending less ( even tho , it 's not very easy to find out how much you are gon na spend with the car ) but remember that driving in the cities you are willing to visit is a total pain . Like a major pain , especially in Rome . The train sounds like your best bet . You do n't have to worry about driving in a country you do n't know ( I presume ) , find a park ( expensive in those cities ) , deal with traffic jam etc. . In Roma and Milano you have a somewhat nice metro/tube/underground that can bring you everywhere while in Firenze you can use buses ( even tho just walking in the city center will keep you busy enough for two days ) . Italy has an extensive net of trains and buses so if you want to visit the countryside you wo n't have any problem in doing so without a car . Anyway , I wish to add my unsolicited-subjective-opinion : 3 days in Roma and 2 in Firenze are n't even enough to see all the beauties those cities have to offer . I really think that , considering the time you will spend moving between cities , go to the airport etc , visiting the countryside would really be too much . If you really , really , really want to do so you may want to stay only one day in Milan and save that extra day for visitin around Firenze , which is very beautiful ( you may consider to visit San Gimignano or Siena or Monteriggioni or Lucca etc etc ) .
So basically it 's not just two countries that make up the difference . For example , as as Dutch citizen you can get a visa-on-arrival in Mozambique , while Sweden ca n't . Sweden has visa free entry into Vietnam , while Dutch do n't . Rather than list all the differences , I 'll point to these two Wiki pages : <URL> <URL> They list all the countries and the rules for the citizens - visa free , visa-on-arrival , and so on . It also means it 'll continue to be more up to date as the rules change ( eg this past year <URL> - go figure ! )
The advice to get vaccinated 3-4 weeks prior to traveling should be read as " at least 3-4 weeks prior " . Typically , it takes your body 's immune system a little while to respond to the vaccine by creating antibodies . Thus , if you travel immediately after getting a vaccination , you may still be vulnerable to those infections . In the case of hepatitis vaccine the protection it affords will last 10 years . So getting it a bit sooner than 4 weeks prior to travel is a non-issue . I 've never heard of a vaccine that does n't afford at least 3 years protection . So , in summary , if it is more convenient to get your vaccinations 6 months prior to travel , then go right ahead . Just keep track of the duration of their effectiveness for future travels . You 'll need to ' top them up ' sooner then otherwise as a consequence .
Checking " Frommer 's Alaska 2004 by Charles Wohlforth " , Wiley Publishing Inc , ISBN 0-7645-3891-8 , we find the following paragraph ... The Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska Fairbanks maintains a fascinating and cool site filled with real-time earth science information about Alaska , such as aurora predictions , volcano watches , earthquake and tsunami updates , rocketry , and space science . ( emphasis mine ) Going to the site , at <URL> , you can find the answers to almost everything related to seeing the aurora , including a graphic showing the forecast for today ... <URL> Auroral activity will be moderate . Weather permitting , moderate displays will be visible overhead from Barrow to as far south as Talkeetna and visible low on the horizon as far south as Bethel , Soldotna and southeast Alaska . Source : <URL> , fair use Looking further into Frommer 's , there 's a first person narrative entitled " Seeing the Aurora Borealis " which gives an informative account of the author 's experience . My copy of Frommer 's is the 2004 version , you can locate the 2015 version <URL> . Checking Amazon , I see used paperback copies starting at GBP 1 . Summary : The site uses a computer model that appears to take all of your parameters into consideration . And so it seems that the book coupled with the university site will have all of the information you need to successfully view the aurora in Alaska ( or any place else where it 's visible ) .
You have at least two options : Bus + train The nearest railway station to Courmayeur is Pré-St . Didier , approximately 6 km from Courmayeur . To get from Courmayeur to Pré-St . Didier , take a bus with <URL> . This bus departs several times per day and takes 10 minutes . You need <URL> . It 's also possible to take this bus all the way to Aosta , but it 's perhaps more interesting to change to the train . For the train from either Pré-St . Didier or Aosta to Milano Centrale , you can use the search engine at <URL> . To get from Pré-St . Didier to Milano Centrale , you need to take the train to Aosta , then Aosta -- Ivrea , Ivrea -- Chivasso and Chivasso -- Milano . This route takes 4 hours 18 minutes and costs $ 17.40 . There are other routes that take longer . Note that <URL> , used by bahn.de and other websites , is incomplete . It claims a journey trip from Pré St. Didier to Milan takes 6 hours 55 minutes , by train to Aoste , bus to Martigny , train via Visp to Milano . This is neither fastest nor cheapest ! By bus all the way SAVDA also operate <URL> . Times and frequency depend on the time of day . The bus takes approximately 3 1/2 -- 4 hours , and costs $ 18 .
Will you need visas ? Yes Based on hippietrail 's great comment , here 's the breakdown : Canadian : Fiji : No visa Indonesia : Visa on Arrival ( VOA ) Thailand : No visa ( expect to get entry stamps in your passports ) Cambodia : VOA Laos : VOA Vietnam : Visa required before entry ( or pre-approval , read below ) Swede ( same requirements as Canada for these countries ) : Fiji : No visa Indonesia : visa on Arrival ( VOA ) Thailand : No visa ( expect to get entry stamps in your passports ) Cambodia : VOA Laos : VOA Vietnam : Visa required before entry ( or pre-approval , read below ) Notes Many countries require at least six months of validity left on your passports when you enter . This means that when you enter the last country of your itinerary you need at least six months of validity . It looks like you 're getting close to 30 days in Thailand . The limit for you in Thailand is 30 days . Do not overstay your visa in any country . It is not worth the risk of complications and it 's usually easy to get your stay legally extended . Prevention in better than the cure . Indonesia VOA will require money ( not a bribe , a legitimate charge ) . They accept Indonesian Rupiah , US dollars and credit card ( I would n't count on the credit card , the system may be down ) . There is an ATM right next to the area where you pay for your visas . However , I would make sure I have the funds in US dollars before I arrive in Indonesia . Visas for Vietnam There are two ways to go about this for your particular situation . Pay online to get you visa preapproved . You 'll get a letter e-mailed to you with your name , passport number , and date of entry and departure on it . When you pass through immigration present the letter and your passport to the agent and you will get a visa put in your passport by them ( you may need to submit a passport photo too ) . It feels a little sketchy doing it online but it works . Do your due diligence to make sure you are n't getting scammed , it looks like there are a lot of websites you can go through . The price varies depending on how quickly you want the approval done . Request your visa through your nearest Vietnamese embassy or consulate . This will require , among other things , mailing your passport to the Embassy or Consulate ( with a self addressed andstamped return envelope ) and they will put the visa in .
Michael gave you some pretty common destination so I 'm going to add some less touristy but awesome places around Milan . Since I love lakes I would suggest you a visit around the many lakes you can find in the area , Lake Garda being probably the most famous one . <URL> What to do <URL> It is where the Italian writer Gabriele d'Annunzio lived after his defenestration in 1922 until his death in 1938 . The estate consists of the residence of d'Annunzio called the Prioria ( priory ) , an amphitheatre , the light cruiser Puglia set into a hillside , a boathouse containing the MAS vessel used by D'Annunzio in 1918 and a circular mausoleum . <URL> and <URL> <URL> is surely worth a visit among with <URL> . <URL> Verona is a pretty nice and small city which was awarded the World Heritage Site . The city itself is beautiful and there 's the famous amphitheatre and well . . the balcony of Juliet , of course , among many others thing you may want to visit . One option you may consider is to stay somewhere in Verona or Desenzano and then do day trips to the places I listed ( or others you have found yourself ) . You may also consider to ride a bike so you wo n't be bus-bounded ( even tho the bus system in that area works pretty well ) . <URL> is the official site for trains schedule . Milano - Verona is about 1h 20mins and it runs pretty frequently . A ticket is around 20 $ . The area around <URL> is also very beautiful and closer . Honestly , tho , If you have never been to <URL> , I would spend the five days there since five days are perfect to really start to get to know the city , not just the most crowded touristy places . If you are lucky you can find hostels for about 20 $ / night but you better book in advance . After visiting the most famous places just roam around the city and get lost , go to Castello , Dorsoduro , sestieri where people hang out the clothes outside ( well , probably not with these weather :) ) far from all the tourists . Venice is also pretty safe so roaming around night ( less tourists as a bonus ) it 's highly recommended . Do n't be afraid to get lost in those small calli , it 's totally awesome . I love to just walk and look around and Venice is a good place to practice this degeneration but I do n't know if it 's the same for you . If you are more for a quick visit to the touristy places than you may want to stay in Venice two to three days and then move somewhere else . If you are on a tight budget you may want to consider grab some food at the grocery store instead of going to the restaurant ( eating something reasonably good for a reasonable price in Venice it 's very difficult ) . Grocery stores that I know are : <URL> <URL> ( in Italian but pretty easy to figure out the address ) Local dishes you may want to try are : <URL> Cotoletta alla milanese ( milanese after its place of origin , Milan ) is a fried cutlet similar to Wiener schnitzel , but cooked " bone-in " . It is fried in clarified butter or olive oil [ 1 ] and traditionally uses exclusively milk-fed veal . <URL> Risotto alla milanese is made with beef stock , beef bone marrow , lard ( instead of butter ) and cheese , flavored and colored with saffron . <URL> <URL>
Unless you book the whole room ( ie pay for all 6 beds ) , then yes , you may well be sharing with others . Of course , depending on the time of the train , the service , and the route , and the time of year , it may not be full , and you may luck out and get the whole room to yourselves . No , there 's no ' partial occupancy claims full room ' rule - if there 's a spare bed , someone can buy that ticket and use it . You could perhaps try asking new people to use a different room , warn them that you snore or something , but otherwise no . Six is not so bad , try platzkart class in Russia where you have 54 beds in one big open carriage , or obshi class in Uzbekistan - no beds , and 100ish people just sitting for 24 hours ( ! ) .
General answer ... There 's not so much to do at very night hours in Dubai apart from Disco or other bars/lounges , and for sure not in the very late hours of the night ... To answer your specific questions : Burj Khalifa is open from 8.30 am to 1.00 am , but last entrance is 45 mins . before so it will be closed . Dubai Mall <URL> , neither the <URL> . I think there 's nothing much to do than staying at the airport . I 'm sorry .
Very often , the accommodation place where you stayed will have a long-term storage . It 's exceedingly common for hotels or hostels to have guests leaving stuff there while they go elsewhere - eg skies from their mountain trip , or stuff they 've bought to take home but do n't want to keep travelling with until they return to the hotel a few weeks later . Sometime 's it 's complimentary if you 're coming back soon and if you 're staying with them again shortly , but more often there 'll be a nominal fee . I 've even seen a comment on here somewhere about someone who was n't staying in a hotel paying the hotel anyway to store their stuff - you do n't necessarily need to be a guest . Of course , this 'll depend on the specific hotel . Alternatively , train stations and airports often have day and long-term storage lockers , for a fee . It 'll usually get x-rayed , and then kept for you . I 've used these in the past as well when I did n't want to take all my bags into the city to explore with , and they were very quick to use , and seemed very secure .
I would strongly suggest you to try <URL> Another very famous one ( which is part of a well known brand in Italy ) is <URL>
Indeed , the French transportation network is organised very centrally around Paris . Looking at the map of the recent ( it might change rapidly ) <URL> ( some website to book buses ) and the train network maps provided by the SNCF <URL> and <URL> , it looks clear that most trains and buses are centered around Paris ( you might find a connection in Tours or Le Mans ) so in any case you will have to connect . Using <URL> and avoiding Paris is possible but probably longer and less convenient , going through Nantes . An alternative would be ride sharing . <URL> is the most popular service . A search for this weekend shows few direct Rennes-Poitiers trips though . Also know that ride share trips tend to appear only about 2 weeks before the date of travel , so if you want to secure a trip early , this might not be your best option . Most French people now compare trains , buses and ride sharing options ( and planes for the longer distances ) when travelling across the country .
Tap water is always drinkable in Italy , especially in the cities ( of course , it may be a little bit different if you are talking about a cottage in the middle of nowhere ) . The real question is how good is that . For instance , in Rome the water has a very strong percentage of limestone and it taste does n't very good . For this reason , several people tends to buy a water purifier or a simple purifier container like the following one . In smaller cities , like Bergamo , pipe water is definitely better than bigger cities . Specifically , in Bergamo the pipe water seems to be <URL> . Talking about Milano , and big cities in general , it depends on where you live ( how far from the main water collector , the quality of the pipes , etc ) . My suggestion is to either try , ask the neighbours or use a water quality test to check the quality of the water in the apartment . In any case , it 's potable . So you can drink it , or use it for a tea or coffee . It may not taste extremely well or the amount of mineral salt may be greater than what you would expect .
The <URL> describing just this , including how to apply for travel documents if one was stateless . They note that : A stateless persons ' document issued to an adult will usually be valid for 10 years if you have permission to stay in the United Kingdom permanently ( known as ' indefinite leave to remain ' ) . If you have temporary permission to stay in the United Kingdom ( known as ' limited leave to remain ' ) , your stateless persons ' document will usually be valid for the same period as your permission to stay here , up to a maximum of five years . In addition they point out that if granted , a stateless persons ' document is normally valid for travel to all countries . Indeed , since 1954 , you 've been able to obtain a ' <URL> ' which for all intents and purpose , acts as a travel document , like a passport . Indeed , it says ' travel document ' on the front cover . This arose from the <URL> .
The overall cost really depends on whether you want to bring a vehicle or not . It is much more expensive to bring a vehicle . If you want to bring a vehicle , then your only reasonable option is the ferry . There are two ferry services : <URL> <URL> If you do not want to bring a vehicle , the cheapest way is probably to fly ( although the ferry has better scenic views , unless the ocean conditions are rough ) . Flights between the main centres ( Auckland , Wellington , Christchurch ) will be the cheapest . Check : <URL> which is Air New Zealand 's discount fare outlet <URL> If you are renting a vehicle , then ask the rental company about options they have for ferry travel . Almost all rental companies will let you drop off the vehicle on one side of the Strait , travel by ferry without a vehicle , then pick up an equivalent one on the other side .
I 'd stop in Albury then Goulburn both about 3.5 hours drive and on the Hume Highway . I 've visited both and Albury has some nice parks and if you 're onto big things Goulburn has the Big Merino . *
I think you want an extension ticket , but see below . <URL> The idea is that you need to have one ticket that 's valid for your whole trip . Technically , on the journey out , you may step off the train at the last zone B station , validate the ticket , and step back onto the same train . But unless you know exactly where the validator is on the platform and position yourself accordingly , you 'll be stranded until the next train comes . On the return journey , you need to validate your single ticket at the start of the journey , and you 're supposed to step off and back on at the first zone B station . Technically , if a ticket inspector happens to step on at that point and realizes you did not have a ticket for the whole journey , the rules state that they should fine you . There is a different ticket , the <URL> ( Anschlussfahrschein ) , which is meant for use in combination with an ordinary A+B ticket to prolong one trip into zone C ( or start in zone C and continue through zone B and optionally A ) . This ticket is explicitly not allowed in combination with the A+B <URL> or with the A+B <URL> . I ca n't find a definitive reference regarding its validity in combination with a daily , weekly or longer ticket . The <URL> only explicitly excludes " WelcomeCards , CityTourCards , Schulklassen-Tickets und FamilienPass-Monatskarten " , so I surmise that it is valid in combination with other passes , but please confirm with a ticket office first ( and report back ! ) .
The situation is a little complicated and there a few things you must consider . First of all I 'm going to tell you about all the legal prospects of this situation and what can happen if then open up your bags and find two packaged phones inside . Take a look at this <URL> already posted here . Now , since these are two packaged phones , despite being underneath your limit of Rs . 33000 , they are items which can be re-purposed by anyone else which quite honestly is what you are doing here because of the fact that you are giving them to your parents . Even though you do n't plan to sell them , you still wo n't take them back with you , so they are technically imported into the country . Now , one second thought , you could take the phones out of the packages and put them either in your suitcase or your hand-luggage . Now , is this fool-proof ? Obviously No . And the reason it is n't is because you are importing things into the country and if they ask you to pay import duty on it , your only argument can be , " Hey these are for my own use ! " Now , if the two phones are packaged , this argument is far less convincing . Otherwise they might let you thru without much issue . Keeping this in mind , if the phones are in your hand luggage and are not packaged , you should be fine . If you decide to take them in your luggage without the packaging or packaging separately in different luggage or something , that would be pretty fine too ! If you do decide to take them as packaged goods , that 's up to your own risk .
I got this from <URL> Bus id - ID-862 Times - 14:30 - 20:15 Company - Linvo Bus Price Single/Return - 168 HRK / 269 HRK Hope it helps .
If you have only 2 weeks - 3 days in Moscow = 11-10 days , then forget about European part of Russia and go straight to Siberia . I do n't know why everybody suggests TSR , but personally it is very dull to sit in train for a week . First try to feel Moscow life rhythm . You will see later how it is different in Siberia . Then I suggest you to fly from Moscow to Yekaterinburg and move from there by train . IMHO Siberia gem is in its boundless territory with some scent of wilderness . You can feel it only by traveling by train or car . In Siberia you can feel that Moscow is far away from that region ( no wonder that fugitive serfs ran away to there to start a new life ) . Try to visit Tomsk , Omsk . Visit Kemerovo to see industrial Siberia , though I think that it is the worst city in Russia 8 ) Then go to Altai . Altai is a must . Krasnoyarsk is a must too ( Yenisei is a mighty Siberian river ) . From Krasnoyarsk fly back to Moscow . I do n't think that you would be able to see Baikal due to lack of time . BTW Altai also needs extra time , but if you traveling around why do n't visit it even for a while . Keep in mind that spring is time when ticks wake up from winter sleep . Siberia was always in front lines of tick encephalitis infections in Russia .
end question
start question
Which of Mt. Aso 's facilities are inaccessible during a Level 2 volcanic alert ?
There is further information ( in Japanese ) about the different levels on <URL> . The first image ( with the concentric circles showing different distances ) also has a bit more information about what facilities you do n't have access to . Level 2 : 1km exclusion zone around crater . No access to Mt. Aso Park Road ( 阿蘇山公園道路 ) , Mt Aso Ropeway ( 阿蘇山ロープウェイ ） , Sensuikyo Ropeway ( 仙酔峡ロープウェイ ) . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the closure of Mt. Aso Park Road basically removes access to all the near-crater facilities . I think the orange line on that map marks the current restriction . There is more information about the closure of Mt. Aso ropeway on <URL> ( English ) , and this would probably be the best source for seeing if things are open again as they seem to update regularly to let people know if they will be running . It appears that there has been damage on some of the roads/pathways in the area from earthquakes , including ones linked to Mt. Aso ropeway , so even if the volcanic alert level drops , you should double-check whether the areas you 're interested in are both open and accessible - this is especially true if you 're thinking of hiking in the area .
There is further information ( in Japanese ) about the different levels on <URL> . The first image ( with the concentric circles showing different distances ) also has a bit more information about what facilities you do n't have access to . Level 2 : 1km exclusion zone around crater . No access to Mt. Aso Park Road ( 阿蘇山公園道路 ) , Mt Aso Ropeway ( 阿蘇山ロープウェイ ） , Sensuikyo Ropeway ( 仙酔峡ロープウェイ ) . If you look at <URL> , you 'll see that the closure of Mt. Aso Park Road basically removes access to all the near-crater facilities . I think the orange line on that map marks the current restriction . There is more information about the closure of Mt. Aso ropeway on <URL> ( English ) , and this would probably be the best source for seeing if things are open again as they seem to update regularly to let people know if they will be running . It appears that there has been damage on some of the roads/pathways in the area from earthquakes , including ones linked to Mt. Aso ropeway , so even if the volcanic alert level drops , you should double-check whether the areas you 're interested in are both open and accessible - this is especially true if you 're thinking of hiking in the area .
The hospital will want to verify your ability to pay before admitting you . And as your insurance provider is outside the country , they would likely want a local representative to confirm payment services are available within the country . A fair number of " travel insurance " issuers work through just a few actual coverage underwriters . And the bigger underwriters maintain offices in major countries around the world . So knowing who actually underwrites the insurance coverage and their local office number could help in the situation you encountered . But having the phone number is not a guarantee , as some travel insurance policies do require you to pay up front and be reimbursed by filing a claim afterwards . In terms of being refused admittance due to lack of a means of payment , this depends on the nature of your visit . As Choster mentioned hospitals have a mandate to provide primary medical care in an emergency , but this applies primarily to life threatening emergencies . A private hospital can refer less serious cases to the regional public hospital where indigent care is provided .
Take two suitcases . You will ( probably ) get charged extra for the overweight bag , and if it 's too overweight they wo n't accept it at all . And you will pay again on the return . Assuming you are going on vacation , you will most likely buy something and need a way to carry it home . yes ? One overweight , stuffed to capacity case wo n't work . Note that a completely empty case is often a problem too - it 's so light it does n't go through the baggage system well and can get blown off carts when outside .
Having some passport not recognized by some country is not that unusual . It 's pretty much certain to happen somewhere for passports of countries with partial recognition . Someone else mentioned passports of Northern Cyprus ( which is only recognized by Turkey ) , which <URL> , is only accepted in 6 countries . But there are many other countries in the same boat . The Republic of China passport : The Republic of China is recognized by 21 UN members plus the Holy See . But its passport is accepted in almost all countries . However , there are some peculiarities . <URL> , a few countries ( Argentina , Kenya , Laos , Nepal , Serbia ) will issue the visa on a separate sheet , not on the passport itself , presumably due to not recognizing the passport . Brazil apparently will require the person apply for a Brazilian laissez-passer as the document to put the visa on . China ( People 's Republic of ) will issue some kind of permit instead . The page for <URL> does not explicitly mention any country where it is not accepted . But common sense would dictate that it is not recognized by Serbia . The Nagorno-Karabakh passport is not recognized anywhere , <URL> ( though it 's unclear if that means it can not be used anywhere ) . For <URL> it says " not valid for travel to most countries " ( not really sure what that means ) . The pages for <URL> and <URL> do not explicitly mention any country where they are not accepted . But again , they would be at least not recognized by the countries that their territory is claimed by ( Azerbaijan for Nagorno-Karabakh , Moldova for Transnistria , Georgia for Abkhazia and South Ossetia ) . The page for <URL> also does not mention where it is not recognized ; but for that case it is conceivable that it could be recognized everywhere . For <URL> , it says it is accepted in 8 countries as unofficial travel documents , which probably means it is not accepted mostly everywhere else . South Koreans visiting North Korea will be issued a visa <URL> .
<URL> . Or for a picture version ( albeit comparing them to Australian plugs , but at least it shows you ) - <URL> . Basically , international outlet/plug types A and C , and they run at 220V/50Hz . Coming from the Netherlands , you will need an adaptor .
The standard measure for a mountain 's difficulty is the ratio of summits to fatalities . Per <URL> , as of 2009 , the hardest mountain is Annapurna I in Nepal , with a ratio of 157 summit ascents and 60 deaths , or 38 % . This means that , for every five people who reached the top , two died trying ( or on the way back ) . I 'll stick to a nice brisk walk around the park , thank you ...
You do not need two separate transit visas . When you apply for your transit visa , provide your entire itinerary , noting that you hope to transit twice through Toronto . If the visa is approved , they will give you at least a dual-entry transit visa . Applying for a tourist visa for the time you 're in Japan would only confuse matters . Since you wo n't be in Canada for that time , it would not be right to ask for a Canadian visa , and your application would likely be refused . As to the US leg not requiring a visa , there 's no such exemption . US permanent residents are exempt from the Canadian visa requirement , but since you hold a US visa you must not be a US permanent resident . Some European countries have an exemption for airport transit visas when the traveler holds a valid US visa , but Canada does not have a similar policy .
<URL> Traditional Islamic law is known as <URL> . By and large , countries following it or having a dual system of civil law as well as Sharia is depicted in this map . As a traveller , this is something you need to watch out for as a country you 're visiting may have laws not commonly found in civil law found in most other countries . What makes it tough to understand is the uneven interpretation each country has . For instance , playing card games in public is not allowed in Malaysia as it is considered a form of gambling ( even if you are n't gambling ) , yet alcohol ( which is prohibited by Islamic law ) is sold openly . Most locals will be willing to point out to you if you commit a faux pas , but once you have been to a couple of Muslim countries you will get a hang of the basic rules in addition to traditional civil law that you need to be aware of .
The shopping malls in and around DC ( and everywhere else stateside ) will be in full swing starting 26 December to about close of play on 31 December . This would include <URL> , and if you do not arrive early you can expect to have to use <URL> . Shops at Tysons will be open from 10AM to 9:30 PM , 1000 to 2130 . You will also be able to take ice skating lessons at the rink and on 27 December you will have a chance to meet the <URL> . Barnes and Noble will also have special events throughout the week .
If you have only 2 weeks - 3 days in Moscow = 11-10 days , then forget about European part of Russia and go straight to Siberia . I do n't know why everybody suggests TSR , but personally it is very dull to sit in train for a week . First try to feel Moscow life rhythm . You will see later how it is different in Siberia . Then I suggest you to fly from Moscow to Yekaterinburg and move from there by train . IMHO Siberia gem is in its boundless territory with some scent of wilderness . You can feel it only by traveling by train or car . In Siberia you can feel that Moscow is far away from that region ( no wonder that fugitive serfs ran away to there to start a new life ) . Try to visit Tomsk , Omsk . Visit Kemerovo to see industrial Siberia , though I think that it is the worst city in Russia 8 ) Then go to Altai . Altai is a must . Krasnoyarsk is a must too ( Yenisei is a mighty Siberian river ) . From Krasnoyarsk fly back to Moscow . I do n't think that you would be able to see Baikal due to lack of time . BTW Altai also needs extra time , but if you traveling around why do n't visit it even for a while . Keep in mind that spring is time when ticks wake up from winter sleep . Siberia was always in front lines of tick encephalitis infections in Russia .
There are three guide companies available for climbing Rainier : They are all probably pretty good . I 've heard good things about RMI . I do n't know about prices . It 's possible to do without a guide company , if you learn and practice the basics of glacier travel and crevasse rescue , especially self-arrest . However , it is a bad idea to go it alone with limited experience . Some parts are a little scary . In fact , the park service will likely refuse a solo climbing permit if you ca n't show proper experience . But if you can find someone to go with who 's experienced and who you can trust , you can avoid the guide service . I 'd highly recommend the climb if you get the chance -- it 's worth it . Incidentally , the public shelter at Muir Camp is not so comfortable to sleep in . If you do n't use a guide service shelter , you might prefer your own tent .
The MBTA does n't have any official statement about this , but I would n't recommend doing it . The CharlieCard is a contactless smart card , and it activates when you place it close to a reader . If you place two cards next to the reader at the same time , it 's essentially random as to which one will actually be read and used . It is even possible for both of them to be recognized . Worse , if you have contactless credit or debit cards , those might also be read . Any of these will confuse the fare gate . Since one of your two cards is empty , if that is the card the reader sees , then the fare gate simply wo n't open . If it sees both cards , the fare gate might do something silly like immediately open and close again . If you 're feeling adventurous , you could try it out , but you could possibly lose money . London 's Oyster card is very similar , and Transport for London go out of their way to warn people against <URL> , where multiple cards are read by the system at the same time . Since contactless credit/debit cards can be used directly to pay in that system , it 's a much bigger issue there than in the US , where contactless credit/debit cards are uncommon ( now , but in a couple of years everyone will have them ) . As in London , in Boston I would recommend you always take out the CharlieCard you intend to use , and touch only it to the fare gate .
You could find some information in the web site of the <URL> . Being Italian , I find it quite embarrassing to realize that the f.a.q. section is not translated into English . As far as I was able to understand reading the f.a.q. you can have with you imported goods for a maximum value of 430,00 $ . The 150,00 $ you were mentioning in the question is the limit for children under 15 years of age .
The answer to my own question will not deal with all issues mentioned , but because there are no other answers I 'd like to share my experiences . I was n't personally camping in Georgia , but I met people that were camping and I saw people camping . Georgia still has an underdeveloped tourist base , most of the sleeping places are in hotels ( big cities ) and guesthouses/private rooms . But I saw a camping place advertised in Mestia ( Svanetia ) and I saw people camping outside a bar in Vardzia ( so their backyard was a kind of camping place , you could say . I met a few Israeli tourists that were trekking from Kazbegi to Tushetia and they said they 'd slept most of their nights in tents and there were no security issues . But they camped only in places far from villages , when they were near some village , they 've stayed there . I also met one guy travelling from Uzbekistan to Georgia by hitchhiking and sleeping in a tent , and he said he had no problems or security issues , neither from people nor from wild animals or dogs . But one thing you should always avoid is getting near flocks of sheep , because they are protected by very large and aggressive dogs , whose task is to protect the animals from everything including wolves and bears .
The phrasing " government funded flight " suggests that the flight was chartered by the Australian government . Charter flights are not usually eligible for miles . For example , Rule 9.3.1 of <URL> says : Subject to the exclusions in clauses 9.3.2 and 9.4 , Points for air travel may be earned only for paid travel or Any Seat Awards [ ... ] on regular scheduled flights [ ... ] and Rule 9.4.1 ( c ) specifically says : 9.4.1 Points are not earned for travel on [ ... ] ( c ) charter flights ; The case might be different if your government buys people tickets on a regular scheduled flight , rather than chartering the whole plane . But evacuations like this are usually undertaken when scheduled flights are not operating .
I intended to write a comment , but do n't see the link to make one so I 'm writing this as an answer instead . This question actually seems like an umbrella topic concerning RV parking facilities in different provinces of Canada . I 've been doing a little research on the same topic since I 've similar plans . Me and my friends are occupied with the financial aspects of it though . This <URL> and this <URL> might be of help to you .
Restaurants and tourist attractions generally stay open on public holidays , because there 's extra trade . As far as restaurants go , Barcelona has plenty of restaurants , so even if a few close you should n't have trouble . The thing you do need to be prepared for is that supermarkets will be shut , so if you run out of bottled water you 'll have to pay through the nose at a bar or a small grocer . For individual tourist attractions , you can check their websites . I expect most of them to have English translations , but if not then the words you need to look for are festivo ( public holiday ) and víspera de festivo ( day before a public holiday - they sometimes have special timetables ) . Similarly for transport . When people talk about the holiday " spilling onto more than one day " , they 're probably talking about the institution of puentes , whereby workers make a " bridge " between the holiday and the nearest weekend . This is n't really relevant to you as a tourist , except insofar as tourist attractions may be slightly busier than usual for weekdays outside peak season .
Well <URL> in the world . I 'll ignore lightvessels for this question . For European countries : Belgium - 6 Bulgaria - 5 Denmark - 6 Estonia - 42 Finland - 9 France - several Wales - 25ish Scotland - tons Portugal - 44 continental , more in Azores Spain - tons Sweden - 20ish England - 50ish Norway - tons etc you get the idea . From that , you can either infer there are loads in Norway , Portugal , Spain and Estonia , or there may just be lighthouse obsessed fans in those countries . <URL> maintains an index for more than 14,700 of the world 's lighthouses . So that 's another good place to start . They also note : It is not so easy to define exactly what we mean by a lighthouse , and various organizations and individuals have used very different definitions when describing or classifying lighthouses . Clearly , all lighthouses are lighted aids to navigation , but not all lighted aids are considered to be lighthouses . Some definitions are not controversial . An aid to navigation is a structure placed on or near navigable water to provide visual guidance to mariners . A beacon is an aid to navigation that is fixed in place ( that is , not floating ) . A lighted beacon or lightbeacon is a beacon displaying a light , while an unlit beacon is called a daybeacon . Often , a lighted beacon is simply called a light . In this Directory , a lighthouse is a lightbeacon having a height of at least 4 meters ( 13 ft ) and a cross-section , at the base , of at least 4 square meters ( 43 sq ft ) . This simple definition does not require that a lighthouse have any particular form or appearance . The structure of a lighthouse may be enclosed , partially enclosed , or completely open . If you went state-side , apparently " <URL> " . According to <URL> , there are 1032 in England . Finally , I found <URL> , which plots lighthouses on a map . It 's not very detailed , but I 'd say Denmark in this case . You might also contact the <URL> , as they may well have statistics somewhere , or know who might . EDIT In addition , someone mentioned the coastline effect . While it would seem to indicate more chance of lighthouses , in reality it 's dependent more on dangerous , irregular and busy coastlines . If it 's easy sailing and deep water , why have a lighthouse ? However , there 's probably some rough correlation still - as a tiny coastline like Latvia is probably going to have fewer than Norway . To that effect , here is <URL> , and the longest European one is Norway , unless you also count Russia as European ...
As you mention , your passport has no issue with immigration to Japan , then it just comes down to what you 're doing there . You 'll be able to show you have an exit flight from Japan , so that 's fine , and that you want to just leave the airport for a few hours . Indeed , I did this exact thing in June - I had a few more hours than you , so I had the day in Tokyo , but still - it 's perfectly acceptable and common to pop out . Depending on the time it takes you to get through customs , however ( immigration took me aside for extra questioning , still not entirely sure why ) , you might be pressed for time . Once you get out , go up to the 3rd ( ? ) floor - there 's like a Japanese ' village ' of restaurants inside the international terminal , or on the ground floor , a cheap 7-11 style place if you just want a backpacker-price meal . Otherwise , if you have time , the Monorail will get you into town pretty promptly and cheaply - 30ish minutes to Hamamatsucho ( check though , as there 's an express monorail as well ) .
end question
start question
How can I be re-united with my luggage that I initially did not claim ?
It depends on who is at fault for you not being able to claim . If it is the airline 's fault , so they did n't load the bags / bags got lost / bags did n't make a connection etc , you must speak to the airline staff or their ground handler before leaving the baggage hall . They will get you to fill out a form about your bag ( size , colour , make , identifying features etc , plus your details ) . The form will include ( in almost all countries ) a customs waiver/release . When your bag is eventually found / turns up , the airline will take the bag through customs ( assuming customs do n't find something in the bag of interest ... ) , then get the bag to you . However , if it 's not the airlines fault , or you left the baggage hall without completing the missing baggage form , or if customs have taken an interest in your delayed bag , you first need to speak to the airline staff at the airport or their ground handler . ( Note - likely not airline customer services , they probably wo n't know , usually needs to be people actually at the airport in question ) . They will let you know where to go , and what times you can arrive ( it may only be possible at some times of the day ) Once you 're at the airport , you then contact the baggage staff ( maybe via the airport information desk , maybe by phoning them , maybe by using a special phone , maybe by going to a landside desk and having the phone someone , it varies - that 's why you need to speak to someone before getting to the airport ! ) . You 'll then be escorted to airside , often through a staff security channel . You will almost certainly need photo ID , often a passport , and your details will likely be recorded in a log somewhere . Once airside in the baggage hall , you 'll head to the baggage queries desk for your airline or their ground handler , the place you 'd go to report missing bags . They will likely want your baggage receipt tags ( the bits stuck to your passport or boarding pass at checkin ) . They will then go and get your bag , often from a locked storage area somewhere airside . You 'll sign some paperwork , and if it 's your fault possibly pay a storage fee/fine . You and your bag then exit through customs , who quite possibly will pay more attention to you and your bag than they normally would for a typical traveller , so allow extra time ! . The easiest way to avoid all of this faff is to ensure you either collect all your bags on arrival ( if they 're there ) , or speak with the airline / handling agents before leaving the baggage hall to properly report any missing/delayed luggage + fill out the appropriate forms then !
The most useful single reference seems to be the " <URL> " page of the <URL> , followed by the USDA 's page titled " <URL> " . In summary : The microchip must meet standard <URL> for identification purposes . The microchip must be implanted before the rabies vaccination is done . The Bayer " ResQ " brand of microchips appears to meet the requirements ( <URL> ) . The rabies vaccine must me done at least 21 days before travel ( other sources say 30 days ) . The " rabies serological test " ( section V on the veterinary certificate ) is not required for animals coming from the U.S. . The <URL> must be endorsed by the USDA <URL> ( APHIS ) within 4 months of travel . The airlines also have their own requirements . An " international health certificate " ( <URL> ) might be required ( ?? ) . This must also be endorsed by APHIS . The form itself says it is valid for 30 days , but my vet says it must be done within 10 days of travel . Pet relocation . com has a nice page with the <URL> . The USDA 's APHIS has a page titled " <URL> " . It states , in part : International health certificates for the export of animals from the United States are completed by the APHIS accredited veterinarian who certifies animal health status , conducts tests , and records test results for the individual animals being exported . Completed and signed international health certificates for the export of animals from the United States must be endorsed by a Veterinary Services area office in order to be valid . To obtain the USDA endorsement of an international health certificate or any other documents relating to traveling with your pet , the documents must be completed by an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The APHIS Area Office for your state can assist you with your questions relating to traveling with your pet , help you locate an Accredited Veterinarian , and inform you of the fee ( s ) for the USDA endorsement ( s ) . You should check with your current Veterinarian to determine if he/she is an APHIS Accredited Veterinarian . The airlines have their own rules and fees : Delta Airlines : <URL> , <URL> . United Airlines : <URL> American Airlines : <URL> . Note : American Airlines does not allow carry-on pets on transatlantic flights ! Lufthansa : Very pet-friendly . Allows in-cabin trans-Atlantic pets with a $ 150 fee ( each way ) , as of June 2015 . Other useful references : FlyerTalk thread : " <URL> "
I learnt this the hard way when I was kid because I carried felt tips once on a flight ( for drawing ) and had them leak . They were the thinner type of felt tips used for colouring though , so not sure whether this affects the thicker kind of permanent marker yours seems to be - but I assume some other products may be affected the same way due to cabin pressure . Since luggage compartments on aircraft are n't pressurised at sea level either , I 'm assuming the same would be true regardless of whether you take it in cabin or in checked luggage . ( I was also carrying fountain pens on that flight . Yes , it was nasty . )
This is decided on a case-by-case basis . There is no definitive list of what constitutes close ties . It may help to think about what the consular officers are looking for . They want to be sure that you will leave the UK within your visa validity period , and that you 're not intending to move to the country , or to engage in actions not allowed by your visa ( such as working if you have a tourism visa that does n't allow for work ) . Some things you have no control of . If your country produces many illegal immigrants or other visa violators , your application is going to be given extra scrutiny . What you can and should do is show all possible ties to your home country , and any evidence that you are intending to return . Ongoing , long-term commitments are the best thing to show . A job , a house , studies , family , and so on . So include anything that is long-term in your application . A rental contract , proof of enrollment if you 're studying , information about any other responsibilities you have ( such as relatives you 're taking care of ) . It helps if you 've previously travelled to the EU ( and had no issues there ) . It also helps if you 've visited other countries , that at least shows you really do travel for tourism . In your case , it 's probably your spouse and kids that are the most important aspect . Be sure to show you 're married with kids , that you 're providing for your kids ( assuming they 're minors ) , and show that your family members are involved with work/studies . You 're certainly more likely to be granted a visa travelling alone as opposed to with your family - at least there should be little suspicion that your entire family is trying to illegally move . Ultimately , though , nobody can tell you whether your ties will be considered good enough - the decision will be up to the consular officer .
A large suitcase is usually acceptable . ( Although at times - there may simply be no space ) There should be no real problems in terms of your bag being allowed , but it is recommended you <URL> There are endless stories of <URL> so bear in mind that any luggage you take is at your own risk . For a safer option , I would recommend taking a cab and following the tips below . The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab , and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding . There is a free app available for iPhone , Android , and Blackberry ( soon ) that allows you to verify if a cab is official by comparing the taxi license plate number with the government provided data and that lets you communicate through Facebook , Twitter and/or email the license plate number of the cab you have taken or even communicate an emergency through these mediums . The free service is called Taxiaviso Protect your personal information . There are pickpockets in Mexico City . Purses and bulky , full pockets are quite attractive . Do not keep your passports , money , identification , and other important items hanging out for someone to steal . Place items in a hotel safe with a proper locking mechanism , or tuck them away inside your clothes . The " Metro " subway system can get extremely crowded , which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only . Watch out for small groups of " interesting " people playing " magic " tricks near the entrances to Metro stations as these can be a ruse to have tourists gather round while others in the " troupe " , acting as audience members , bump and push for a view of the " magicians " but in fact may be reaching into your bags or pockets . Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets . Be vigilant when using ATM machines , be sure to hide your money safely away before leaving the ATM booth . Use ATM 's inside a secured place such as in a bank . In crowded public places such as the North and South long distance bus terminals , be sure nobody is following after you after you 've withdrawn money from the ATM .
This website : <URL> has information on most of the strikes . With a little bit of google translate , you can search by tag for the trains or other types of transport . And as the commenter below pointed out , there is even an app . If you are worried about the trains in Paris , for example , search by " RATP " , " SNCF " , or " Paris " . For the cross-country train system , type " TGV " . In my experience , Uber is alive and well during a strike , even in the suburbs .
<URL> : I get a new passport , but I have a valid Chinese visa in my old passport . Can I travel with both passports to China without applying for a new visa ? Yes , you may travel with both passports provided that your visa is still valid and the personal details including your name , sex , date of birth and nationality on both passports are exactly the same .
Give them your Canadian passport . From the US point of view , whichever one you travel on is the one you 'll be using and therefore , your citizenship . Example : I have New Zealand and South African , and travelled through the US on my New Zealand . Never need to mention the South African one - there 's never a question about it , apart from some forms asking your place of birth . You provide the passport to the airline for this trip - they 'll ask again . You could have a new NZ passport by now , or a different citizenship , so they 're always going to ask again .
" Sir/Ma ' am , no thank you . " or " Sir/Ma ' am , I am not interested . " Followed by ( if needed ) " Sir/Ma ' am , I am sorry , but I specifically requested and was given this seat . I am not willing to change to another seat for any reason . Perhaps someone else might wish to help you . "
To quote my comment from the other question : <URL> . It did n't work . Some people built up a preexisting reef into an artificial island ( the reef was below sea level at high tide beforehand ) , and claimed it as a new libertarian nation . No one had laid claim to the reef beforehand . The actual countries around it got together , Tonga claimed the reef , everyone else agreed , and Tonga sent its military to take the land . In 1982 , people tried to pull this again with the same island , and it failed again . It does n't exactly take a very powerful country to kick you off .
<URL> . You could therefore choose to enter Canada as a Hungarian and ignore your US citizenship . It is not necessary to mention it to the border guards unless they ask . You will need an eTA if you are arriving by air after March of next year . <URL> . A birth certificate or certificate of citizenship or naturalization will work instead . A much more interesting question is getting back to the US . While it will get you into Canada , <URL> . If you have an Enhanced Drivers License ( which IS acceptable ) then present that on your return . However , as other questions have shown on this site , if you can prove you are a US citizen , ( which a birth certificate should do ) border patrol can not exclude you from the US . The worst they can do is to give you a talking to about how you should really carry a passport . It is not permitted to use your Hungarian passport to enter the US ( though again , if you can prove you are a US citizen I do n't believe they can keep you out )
In short , your financials do n't seem to make sense . Your application says you earn PKR 78,000 / month working for Punjab Beverage Company . Therefore , the ECO expects to see the same salary stated on the letter from your employer and he expects to see the same amount of money deposited into your bank account every month . Why is this not happening ? If your income is actually irregular from " agricultural and cattle farming , " why does your application say you earn this salary from Punjab Beverage Company ? And if you do receive that salary from the Beverage Company , where is it going if not your bank account ? We have an answer here <URL> , which will tell you more about bank statements and what the ECO is looking to see from them . Also , the ECO does n't understand why your employer is promising to pay for the cost of your vacation . Normally , your employer would only pay for your trip if it was for business purposes . Most importantly though , is the first paragraph . You applied previously , and the ECO found that " there is no evidence to show there has been any significant change in your circumstances since then . " For a new application to be successful , you would need to show significantly different personal circumstances , such as greater ties to your home country . I would not apply again unless and until you are able to do so .
It seems to depend on what passport you have . Both the <URL> and the <URL> say the same thing . For tourist trips of up to 90 days , citiziens of European Union ( EU ) nations , Turkey , USA , Canada , Mexico , Israel , Japan , Singapore , Switzerland , Iceland , Norway , Australia , New Zealand do not require visa . It looks like all other countries do require visas , you 'll need to contact your nearest <URL> to get one . And if there is n't one , then it looks like Northern Cypriate matters will likely be handled by the local Turkish Embassy , so speak to them . As for issues with the two Cypruses , if you see the " Crossing the Green Line " section on the <URL> it suggests you should n't have any issues as the land border is open . If you 've not got a suitable EU passport or visa , you 'll need to get a visa to cross to the south , and you can certainly ask about it when applying for that visa . I would n't expect any issues though .
I do n't know when you are plannig to go to Iceland . Winter in Iceland is 6 month wide from November to May and is not the same you go in January ( really cold to camp outside and almost no light ) than you go in April ( 14 hours of light and very cold , but possible to camp with proper camp material ) . But these are safety reasons to do the trek or not and you ask about regulations . A group of five people stayed last year in April in Iceland ( still winter ) . Basically we did treks and visited public places arround the island on our own . Before to go we asked about this to the icelanic official tourism <URL> people without response . When we were on site , we asked the same in the airport Tourist Information Center and they stated that there is no regulations about wild camping , trekking or other nature activities other than clean everything and do n't enter private properties . Of course , anything you do is at your own risk and if you do n't have an insurance you may end paying a lot of money for your adventure . Anyway , if you dare to do it on your own , you will find nobody on your way except in some touristic places . We were almost alone trekking in Glymur , Krafla , Dimmuborgir , Svartifoss , Skaftafell ... The picture is when we walked on the glacier , we happen to meet the official guides and nobody of them try us to abandon our walk ( sorry for the logo , I do n't have the original image here ) .
When you check in at DEL , you should ask that the bag be checked all the way through to MEM , even though yes , you will still need to claim it and re-check it at ORD . Passengers on all international flights to the U.S. are processed upon arrival at their first airport in the U.S. ( including transit passengers ; the U.S. <URL> ) . In your case , after you land at Chicago , you will disembark the aircraft and proceed directly to immigration and customs screening . You will claim your bag before going through the latter . If the bag is tagged for MEM , you fortunately do not need to go all the way out to the front counter to check them in again . There will be a station for bag re-check past the customs screening area ; you would simply have it scanned there .
You have a residence permit , so you do not need a visa . ( As noted by Relaxed , your single-entry visa is no longer valid because it 's valid for a single entry only , and you 've already used that single entry . ) From the Schengen Borders Code ( <URL> ) : Article 5 For intended stays on the territory of the Member States of a duration of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period , which entails considering the 180-day period preceding each day of stay , the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following : ( a ) [ ... ] ( b ) they are in possession of a valid visa , if required pursuant to Council Regulation ( EC ) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement , except where they hold a valid residence permit or a valid long-stay visa ; ( Emphasis added ) The last clause , in italics above , means that you do not need a visa as long as your residence permit remains valid . ( Paragraph ( a ) , omitted , concerns the requirements for a passport or similar travel document . ) Similarly , Article 7 [ ... ] On entry and exit , third-country nationals shall be subject to thorough checks . ( a ) thorough checks on entry shall comprise verification of the conditions governing entry laid down in Article 5 ( 1 ) and , where applicable , of documents authorising residence and the pursuit of a professional activity . This shall include a detailed examination covering the following aspects : ( i ) verification that the third-country national is in possession of a document which is valid for crossing the border and which has not expired , and that the document is accompanied , where applicable , by the requisite visa or residence permit ; ( Emphasis added ) Note the word " or " in the last clause , supporting the conclusion that a residence permit by itself authorizes a third-country national to enter the Schengen area , without the need to hold a visa . ( Section 1 , omitted , concerns entry and exit checks generally ; section 2 concerns the " minimum check " performed on those enjoying the right of free movement . )
The core differences between a phone app and a dedicated handheld gps are : battery life - the gps will have much longer battery life , but you have a charger for your phone so as long as you get enough sun you 'll be fine . What 's the weather like where you are heading ? ruggedness - gps devices are considerably stronger than an iPhone . Generally they are waterproof as well . Again , this may not be an issue , unless you fall in a river ... sensitivity - dedicated gps hardware is often much better at ascertaining your position . This may or may not be useful for you - in steep sided mountain ravines it can make all the difference . So if you do n't need any of those features , go with your phone . Personally I 'd always take the gps unit and my phone . And while I may log my track on the phone as well , my core nav service would be the gps , and my comms service would be the phone .
Once you have your new passport , call the airline and ask them to update your passport details . They will likely want you verify your old pp number and/or perhaps the payment card number , so have them handy when you call . Just to be safe , I would carry the old one with you when you fly .
You have the right to <URL> for a Canadian passport that does not show your place of birth . This implies that having it in your passport may cause problems in some cases . The disclaimers on that page further suggest that not having it in your passport may cause problems , too . To quote from <URL> : You may request that your place of birth does not appear in the passport . However , if you chose to do so , note that : Place of birth is mandatory for entry to some countries . You should contact the consulate or embassy of every country you plan to visit to ensure that you will be allowed entry if your passport does not indicate your place of birth . You may have difficulty obtaining a visa . You may experience delays at border crossings . Wikipedia also <URL> : The People 's Republic of China will not issue visas to Canadian passport holders whose place of birth is inscribed as being Hong Kong HKG , Macau MAC or ( city name ) TWN . Accordingly , passports issued to Canadians born in Hong Kong , Macau or Taiwan now only list the place of birth , without an accompanying three-letter country code , unless upon request . ... and ... Canadian citizens born in Jerusalem have their birthplace identified only by the city 's name , with no national designation , due to the unresolved legal status of Jerusalem . So yes , in some cases it may matter , but nothing so simple as " born in Lebanon ? Denied ! "
Being myself insured in the Netherlands , I am not 100 % sure how it works for non-residents but the way health care is structured here is that there is no national health service but many independent providers and several private insurers . However , prices and insurance coverage are regulated . In practice , general practitioner ( huisarts ) consultations are free at the point of use ( billed directly to the insurer ) but prescriptions and many other things are paid by the patient , at least in part . As far as I know , you should always try to consult a GP first and he or she will refer you to a specialist or hospital if needed . Regarding the way you should use the EHIC , the best thing is to check the official app ( <URL> or <URL> ) and always show the card whenever you seek health care . Apparently , one insurer , Agis , is <URL> ( the English-language version of the website is apparently unavailable but there is a link to a PDF brochure in English at the bottom of the page ) . In a nutshell , the EHIC provides you with a coverage equivalent to the " basic insurance " defined in the law so that a GP consultation should be free and other health care providers should be able to claim insured costs directly from Agis , which would basically acts as your insurer in the Netherlands . If for some reasons some health care provider can not take care of it directly , you might need to pay everything first and lodge a claim with Agis at the following address to get ( part of ) the money back : You will need to fill in the form provided on the website and send a copy of the bill , a copy of your EHIC and the IBAN number from your bank account . They also have a specific email and telephone number for international matters , they might be able to provide more details on what you should expect to pay should you need to be hospitalized : Finally , if everything else fails , you can still try to contact your insurance or health care administration in your country of residence . You should expect some paperwork and delays but they might still be able to reimburse some things . Waiting to be back and seeking reimbursement is not how the system is supposed to work so there might be difficulties but it 's not completely impossible either . Given that Dutch patients have deductibles ( eigen risico ) and a personal contribution to some expenses , you might have to cover part of the costs in any case . The EU app also suggests that some costs not covered in the Netherlands might still be claimed in your home country ( specifically dental care if you are covered for it ) .
end question
start question
What type of power outlets should I expect in hotels in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro ?
In 2009 , in an act of stupidity , corruption and bad faith , the brazilian governament created a new standard that 's different from all other countries in the world : This image shows the brazillian standard at the bottom and the number of countries ( países , in red ) that use each other standard . That said , it is still very common to find the american standard ( second one ) and mainly the " universal " plug ( last one ) . Actually the most common is to find a plug using the universal without the ground port , so you 'd need an adapter anyway . Post 2009 buildings are required to use the new standard , while older buildings were not required to change existing plugs , so it does n't depend on where you go ( São Paulo/Rio or the rest ) , but when the hotel was created/renovated . That is such a hassle that every hotel must be prepared to have adapters for their guests , I would n't worry if I my things use the american standard , but I guess I would buy one adapter to the american or universal or brazilian standard if using the other standards .
Right , so you 're from London . One of the top attractions in Kobe is , ironically , a concentration of Western-style houses ( ! ) . But that 's probably not going to be a huge attraction for you . However it 's claimed by many sources , including Wikitravel , to be the must see attraction , so if you want to , head to the Ijinkan - near the Shin-Kobe station . These are 19th-century residences of Kobe 's foreign traders , clustered in the Kitano area . To me , Kobe immediately brings to mind images of their terrible earthquake in 1995 , which killed 6433 people . If you head to Meriken Park , they have a memorial there to this . Just nearby is Kobe Tower , which has a viewing pavilion , so you can get a good view of the city . There 's the Fruit Flower park , but it 's not really going to have too many blooms in February . Same for the Herb Park . Ah , now to drink - Kobe is known for its sake ! In the Nada area are breweries , so I 'd try and head there for some tastings :) The Hakutsuru Sake Brewery Museum has free entry , and free sake ! At night , you mentioned the Kobe Luminaire . However , note that it 's generally only in December , and even then only on certain days . Check when you get there though , as it may be running for a special event , and it 'd definitely be worth seeing . Oh ! Also , try and find some <URL> . Oh now I 'm jealous , I totally want to try it from there . " The meat is generally considered to be a delicacy , renowned for its flavour , tenderness , and fatty , well-marbled texture . " . Now , Tokyo . This will be your history stop ( Kobe was more food and culture ? ) . You 'll need to go to the temples of Asakusa , the gardens of the Imperial Palace , and the Meiji Shrine . If you 're looking for a view of the city , you have a few options . The Tokyo Tower is the obvious one , but expensive . Alternatively , head to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government building . It 's the highest spot in Tokyo , and has viewing platforms , and is FREE ! A final option is considered to be the best , however , from the World Trade Center Building at JR Hamamatsucho station which , " although not as high , offers stunning views of Tokyo Tower and the waterfront due to its excellent location , especially at dusk " . I 'd also do a sento ( public bath ) experience , and go to Shinjuku at night - the lights are supposed to make Picadilly Circus look like a backwater town ! There are also several museums in Tokyo , so if you want some more history - Samurai or art or other , check out the list of them when you get there , I wo n't bother listing them out here . The National Museum looks to be the most relevant for a tourist to go and enjoy though , from what I can see .
Kids that age are too large for car seats and probably do n't need booster seats . Their parent should bring : books , handheld video games , smartphones , headsets , crossword or similar puzzle books that they enjoy ( and plenty of pens/pencils/etc in case some get dropped or lost ) snacks like granola bars or carrot sticks that they like paper towels/wetwipes chewing gum for the descent a small camera for each child so they can document the heck out of the whole thing - their suitcase in their room just before it 's zipped shut , driving to the airport , the checkin line , etc etc - this makes it start to be fun long before it starts You can bring : earplugs in case the engine noise bothers them , You can also offer them to any nearby passengers who seem upset . wristbands that prevent motion sickness ( they may or may not be placebo , who cares as long as they help ) gravol or the like to help with motion sickness ( and also makes some children sleep ) ( my distinction is that parents should bring things that need to fit the child 's taste or preferences , or cost a lot , and you can bring small things that you pull out of your pocket to help when trouble arises . ) Toys are generally problematic . Anything with small pieces is out because losing a piece will cause more trouble than the toy prevented . Anything throwable is out . In advance , you can give the children a book about planes and airports , or a video , to reassure them about the process . A 6 year old should have no reason to be afraid of flying , but the cure for fear is knowledge , so provide it .
In order to board your ship , you will need either a valid passport , or an original/certified birth certificate AND a government-issued photo identification ( such as a valid driver 's license ) . You should n't need a passport if this is a closed-loop cruise ( departing and returning to the same US port ) and your two ports of call are in Mexico and the Cayman Islands . Some Caribbean nations do require that cruise passengers have a passport to enter . Should you arrive at one which does , you would simply remain onboard . Note that most cruise lines strongly recommend that you travel with a valid passport . It would be needed if you missed a departure ( from home or ports of call ) or , worst case , in an emergency to fly home prior to the ship 's return to port . Having one could make your upcoming cruise , and future travels , a bit easier . Credit cards and US currency are widely accepted at both of your destinations . You should notify the card issuer of your travel plans . Just call the toll free number and tell the rep where you 're going and when , to avoid a freeze being placed for unusual activity . If your card charges for foreign transactions , you might consider getting one that does n't .
You can get a dramatic reduction in price without sacrificing comfort and safety by selecting a Paris suburb that has good Metro connections ... <URL> is a short walk to ' Boulogne-Pont de Saint-Cloud ' metro station and a quick search locates decent hotels starting at about EUR 85 . <URL> has its own metro station and a quick search locates brand name hotels starting at about EUR 100 ( better deals on the weekends ) <URL> has brand name hotels in the same price range as Saint-Cloud , but requires a 15 minute walk across the bridge to reach the metro station . The commute from these places to central Paris ranges from 30 ( La Défense ) to 60 minutes ( Sèvres ) . These places are in the western suburbs of Paris . I find that area more appealing for reasons vaguely related to safety and long-standing familiarity ( generally not worth going into here ) , but there would be similar opportunities in the southern suburbs also . Adding ... The answer to your question : " Why are hotels in Paris too expensive ? " is because they can .
It has an impact , but it is n't problematic . The Sabbath runs from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown , though in practice it could extend from Friday afternoon to Sunday morning . In planning your trip , it is much like planning in other countries where shops are closed on Sundays or museums are only open on certain days . The key thing is to plan your time carefully around these limitations . From our trip to Israel , I was probably most surprised by the fairly large Arab population . Since their holy day is on Friday , their shops are open on Saturday during the Sabbath and the Jewish shops are open on Friday when the Arab shops are closed . At least in the places we visited , there was always something that was open . I think the most problematic aspect of the Sabbath in our trip planning was public transport . However , we ended up renting a car , so it was n't a concern for us .
Playa del Carmen has a great location - about mid-way between Cancun and Tulum - both big tourist destination . Though , it can hold it 's own ... We were there for a wedding recently , and ca n't wait to go back . Here 's a list of things we enjoyed and highly recommend - The Beach at Playa Del Carmen - one of the best , and not as crowded or commercial as those in Cancun and Tulum . Tulum - The beach , the ruins ( if you are into the Mayan/Aztec culture ) , The Mezzanine restaurant has THE most spectacular views you will ever see . The Coba ruins - not sure I 'd go there again - a long drive , and Tulum and Chichen have more historic sites Chichen Itza ruins - An even longer drive , but worth it , if it 's the only site you will see . Diving into one of the many Cenotes , if you enjoy snorkeling If you have young travelers , they 'll love the " dolphin adventures " With regards to safety , a lot has been made out about the drug wars . We found it extremely safe , with no issues . Just exercise common sense - do n't venture out needlessly after hours . Eat hot food from established restaurants . If you plan on shopping at the city , make sure you are well aware of the exchange rate . We bought some art pieces , which we negotiated in US$ , only to be charged in Pesos . Needless to say , on coming back we realized the exchange rate was ridiculous .
First , make sure you are allowed to leave the airport with your passport/visa . Visa on arrival is available for many countries , but costs US$ 28 for 30 days . But that 's only certain countries , other ones are more complicated . <URL> is limited , but suggests the following sites : The Museum of Islamic Art , Doha Souq Waqif : the traditional old marketplace of Qatar . Has many good restaurants , especially at night time . Also sells many national products - bargaining is recommended . The Pearl : a man-made island connected to Doha by a bridge . You can find a big variety of restaurants and shops , mainly in the high range . Villaggio Mall : a spectacular Venetian style shopping mall with a canal and gondolas as well . A huge variety of shops from casual to luxury . Mathaf : The arab museum of modern art Katara : Cultural village which is home to many international and Arab restaurants , a beautiful beach , and holds many cultural events . Definitely a place to see . Aqua park : Aquatic Funfair . Personally I 'd see maybe one thing , do it properly , and then go hunt out strange foods and experiences . Middle Eastern cuisine is everywhere , and in many forms -- kebabs , breads , hummus , the list goes on . Do n't be afraid to venture into the Souqs looking for a meal ; it will be a unique experience in an authentic setting , and although some of the places you see may look rundown , that 's just the area in general , and the food will be probably be quite good . Be advised that many of the restaurants in the Souqs ( as well as the shops ) shut down during the afternoon hours . If you are in a funny kind of mood , you can try a McArabia -- McDonald 's Middle Eastern sandwich available only in the region . -- <URL> Another thing that I did in Dubai , and apparently they offer in Qatar as well is dune-bashing - riding around in big Landcruisers across the desert - it was AMAZING fun ! However , after my suggestion of it to a relative went bad - do n't do it if you get at all carsick ;)
I suggest you start with the " Centro de Interpretação de Monsanto " ( Monsanto Interpretation Center ) . It is a building with a lot of information about this area ( pictures of flora and fauna , maps , guides ... ) and from there you can decide where you want to go next . Unfortunately , this page is not translated , but you can try to use an automatic translater : <URL> From this page you can also grab more ideas . Public transportations in Monsanto are not good . Bike is a very good option ( generally speaking of course ) .
Very much depends on the cruise ship , and it 's often based on their country of origin . Here are some examples : <URL> : and <URL> , lists many cruise lines :
What you have to know about bird flu is that it is first of all a transmission issue between live birds to humans , and then from those humans to others . So the people affected in the first line are the ones who go to open markets or deal with livestock . If you need to go to such markets or deal with live poultry , you might want to take a distance from this activity - in general , not only now . Bird flu has been an issue in Asia now since some years and you would be in a different type of risk all around , no matter of a specific current threat or not . The main concern that people have right now in China is that the numbers reported by the government might be under reported . Some say by a factor of 10x . What is the true number is of course anybody 's guess . The experience from the SARS epidemic showed that China likes to keep anything that could cause a panic on a smaller flame . The risk for the general public as opposed to tourists however is much higher since they go daily to live markets and buy food there . Tourists on the other hand are in very limited exposure since there is quite a path to make from the person selling the chicken , over the person buying it , through the cooks , the servers until you eat it at a restaurant . Keep in mind that at this point any disease is transmitted only through people , not through the chicken you eat anymore . General flu and other diseases are just as easily transmitted as bird flu . How often do you get a flu ? Well , that risk is the same in the whole world just as in China . So as long as you are staying clear of the markets , you are fine . Even if the current infection rate is under-reported by a factor of 10x , the chances that you are in contact with a virus in Shanghai through a restaurant is just about the same as anywhere else in China , and only remotely higher anywhere else in the world . And , by the way , the current status is that Tamiflu seems to be a working remedy for N7H9 , so even if you might contract something against all odds , this one does not seem the scary killer virus the press would like it to be to push up their sales figures .
OK , December 31st is not a <URL> but January 1st is . The Wikipedia article on Rio de Janeiro states in the <URL> that buses run 24 hours , but the metro runs a Sunday service on public holidays ( new years day happens to be a Sunday next year anyway ) Rest of week metro service : 5am - 12am Sunday metro service : 7am - 11pm The <URL> has some in-depth information about getting around Rio like last carriages on the metro being women-only . There is also a full run down of how the taxis work . Several of the visit Rio sites which , I wo n't link to as I 'm not sure if they 're factual so much as outright marketing material , suggest that getting away from the main attractions on new years eve will be extremely time consuming and one should find a club to ' wait it out ' , they also note that several beach-front hotels offer buffet breakfast ' very early ' . Useful stuff I found along the way : <URL> <URL> <URL>
I 've carried a laptop into Shanghai probably 20 times by now . Never have they opened a single bag or even known I was carrying it . Only once has customs shown any interest in our baggage and that was long ago -- I was wheeling out a cart piled with 4 suitcases ( but no carryons ) and there was n't anyone else going out at the time . Unusual -- it drew the interest of a customs guy . The entry stamp two days earlier drew more interest . He started running the bags through his x-ray when my wife caught up ( she was taking forever talking to the baggage people , I finally headed out to get her to quit talking ) and explained we were picking up our bags the airline left behind and that was the end of it . ( I left the explanation to her as she 's a native speaker . ) On the other hand 6 years ago she tripped a nuke scanner at customs and nobody showed up . We waited a bit and finally walked on out .
Well you can probably look at the <URL> , as that 'll provide some good suggestions : Set your expectations clearly Read requests clearly , make sure they ' sound ' ok Do n't give out your personal information until you feel comfortable Inform your roommates , landlords , or neighbors Make sure your guest understands your rules and expectations Talk about the guidelines of the house Communicate and show respect and most importantly , it 's ok to say no . You should never feel pressured to take someone on .
You got it wrong , there are few types of outlets onboard airplanes : Utility outlets : They are used by the ground/fleet services to clean the aircraft on ground prior to passengers boarding . Usually it will be used for strong vacuum cleaners which requires higher voltage/frequency and can damage electronics not designed for these outlets . This is the type mentioned in the paragraph you quoted above . Shavers outlets : These are found in lavatories , they are designed for electronic shavers and can be used only for shavers . In-seat outlets : These are embedded in the passengers seats and are designed to be used with personal carry on electronics ( laptops , phone chargers ... etc ) . Usually they are deactivated during boarding , take offs and landings and activated during cruise only . This is what you should use and it is available in most major airlines including Cathay Pacific . Also it is mentioned in the <URL> : In-seat power will soon be available across our entire fleet for the devices mentioned above . These in-seat power ratings are however not designed for use with medical devices such as CPAP machines . Passengers must provide their own batteries that are sufficient to power medical portable electronic devices .
TL ; DR There 's no easy way to find out this information for JR East shinkansen lines . Information for the Kyushu/Sanyo/Tokaido shinkansen lines is easier to find though . I remember seeing trainset types listed in printed timetables for sale in bookstores ( and sometimes in the station ) in Japan . Here 's an example schedule , <URL> , on Amazon Japan . You can see the row in the image below that has 500 , 700 , N700 , etc. showing the trainset type . <URL> However , upon further research , it looks like the train type is primarily only shown for the Tokaido and Sanyo shinkansen lines . You can find some schedules with trainset types online on <URL> . For the shinkansen lines operated by JR East , it looks like things are n't so straight-forward . You can kind of tell by train type what it is , but there 's unfortunately still some ambiguity . It <URL> with the schedule books you might be able to look towards the back where they have drawings of the trainsets to figure out what service uses what kind train , depending on the number of cars , etc. . For example , if you know it 's a Yamabiko + Tsubasa that 's a total of 17 cars , it must be E2 + E3 , if it 's 16 cars , it must E5 + E3 . Definitely not easy though . JR East 's <URL> ( in Japanese ) shows which trains are combined and which trains they consist of ( e.g. Yamabiko + Tsubasa ) . I did , however , found this <URL> ( in Japanese ) that lists some trainset types , but it does it line-by-line , so from Tokyo to Omiya you end up having to check multiple shinkansen line schedules . It 's also hard to tell which ones are couples together ( since they 're usually on different lines ) .
This varies very much depending on your country of origin and your destination . Best exchange rate mean lowest <URL> , but keep in mind , that some banks apart of the spread , also charge extra commissions . Keeping that in mind , there are some general tendencies . Exchange rates , from best , to worst : electronic transactions ( i.e. transactions made directly with the credit card ) . These usually have the lowest spread ( or none at all for major currencies ) and typically using major credit cards there is no extra commission . This is the preferred option when you 're traveling in developed countries . cash withdrawal ( usually ATM , note however , that on rare occasions when paying with card , it 'll be actually charged as cash withdrawal ) . This usually has decent spread , some banks charge commissions , some do n't . Your Mileage May Vary . Check availability of ATMs accepting your cards beforehand . In some exotic countries you 'll only get them at main airport . ( btw . some banks/ATM operators charge fixed or minimum fee per transaction , so it 's better to make one bigger withdrawal , than a number of smaller ones ) . money exchange at your bank , i.e. withdrawing money from your account in other currency . Problem with that is , that it 's impractical to carry around large quantities of cash when you 're traveling . local money exchange , least favorable , but in really exotic countries that might be your only option . Especially when you 're in situation , that you 've run out of local currency and you 're not anywhere close to civilization . The exception are countries , where the money is not fully and freely interchangeable . In that case most often black-market exchange will give you much more than the official ones at banks . However , using black-market you 're exposing yourself to fraud .
According to <URL> it 's <URL> : In seats equipped with AC Power , all you 'll need is the standard wall power brick that came with your laptop or other electrical device . The power on the plane is typically 110V AC and features a semi-universal receptacle that accepts the following types of plugs : US non-polarized 2-blade plug ( both blades are the same size ) US polarized 2-blade plug ( one blade is bigger than the other ) US non-polarized 2-blade plug with Ground ( aka three-prong ) European standard 2-cylindrical prong plug ( two round prongs ) Also found a <URL> .
what is expected of me while I stay there If someone carries your luggage to your room , they expect a tip ( $ 1 to $ 2 per bag ) . It 's also customary to leave a tip for the maid ( $ 1 to $ 3 per day ) . Otherwise , it 's really the other way round : it 's the job of the hotel staff to meet your expectations ( within reasonable bounds ) - you 're paying , after all . what is provided for me and what I should bring The <URL> can give you some idea of what you can expect . The hotel will provide towels , and you can get new ones every day ( nowadays there 's usually a sign that says to leave the towels on the floor if you want new ones ) . Bedsheets will be changed at least once per week , and the room cleaned daily . They usually also provide small packages of things like toothpaste and shampoo , but not necessarily enough for a stay longer than a few days . There may be a clothes cleaning service , but you 'll have to ask for it . Many ( but not all ) hotels have hair driers in every bathroom . You should bring any other appliances you need . Nowadays , many hotels have some sort of internet connection in the rooms , but it may or may not be free . If you have booked the room with breakfast included it will be served in a dining room in a fixed time frame ( e.g. between 7AM and 10AM ) . is there any gotcha that I should keep on the look out for ? There is a " check-in time " ( typically late afternoon ) - you probably can not get into your room before that time when you arrive , as it may still be need to cleaned up after the previous guest . Correspondingly , on the day you leave you have to vacate the room and " check out " at the reception before a certain time ( usually 10AM or 11AM ) - if you do n't , you may have to pay for an extra day . If you arrive before the check-in time or leave significantly after check-out time , most hotels offer to store your luggage for you while you spend the time somewhere else ( at no extra cost ) . Many hotels have a " minibar " in the rooms , which is a small fridge containing various beverages . These usually cost extra ( prices are listed on the fridge door or a leaflet somewhere ) and may be very expensive . But this seems to have gone out of fashion and I 've seen a lot of empty minibars ( which can be useful to keep your own stuff in ) . The maid will come into your room every day to clean up - usually around noon . You can hang a sign on the door handle if you 're in the room and do n't want to be disturbed , and they 'll come back some other time . Theoretically they could steal things from you ; this is very rare , but many hotels have installed a small safe in every room to deposit exceptionally valuable items .
If you go to Hostelbookers ( generally a bit cheaper than Hostelworld ) and search by price , <URL> . In the high season when I was there last year it was still possible to walk into some hostels and get a bed , but not guaranteed , especially around weekends when more people travel and use them .
end question
start question
Is there any travel management software / webportal available ?
There 's countless websites that do this type of thing in one form or another . Personally I 've never found one that does exactly what I want , but for the most part the following 2 sites do something similar to part of what you 've described . <URL> is a great travel planning site . It allows you to forward confirmation emails from hundreds of different travel booking sites , and it will automatically merge the details into a single " trip " listing all the details you 've sent it ( flights , hotels , rental cars , etc ) , along with location information for the places you 're going like maps , weather , etc. . In the unlikely case that it ca n't understand the email that you 've sent it - or if you want to enter additional information ( meetings , other plans , attractions to visit , etc ) - then you can just enter these items manually via the website . There 's an app for a few different platforms that you can use to access your trips , and there 's also the ability to share your trips with others , and even see which of your friends you 'll be near during your travels ( presuming they are also using TripIt , obviously ) . TripIt does have some statistics after the trip , but in order to track where I 've been I enter my flight details into <URL> . Once you 've entered the flights , this site will give you maps showing where you 've been , as well as details of the number of miles you 've flown , etc. . There are other sites out there that potentially do the same thing with a little more updated user interface , but I 've been using Flight Memory for years , and it does the job well . Personally I 'd love to find a cross between TripIt , FlightMemory , and something like <URL> - but if it 's out there I 've yet to find it !
There 's countless websites that do this type of thing in one form or another . Personally I 've never found one that does exactly what I want , but for the most part the following 2 sites do something similar to part of what you 've described . <URL> is a great travel planning site . It allows you to forward confirmation emails from hundreds of different travel booking sites , and it will automatically merge the details into a single " trip " listing all the details you 've sent it ( flights , hotels , rental cars , etc ) , along with location information for the places you 're going like maps , weather , etc. . In the unlikely case that it ca n't understand the email that you 've sent it - or if you want to enter additional information ( meetings , other plans , attractions to visit , etc ) - then you can just enter these items manually via the website . There 's an app for a few different platforms that you can use to access your trips , and there 's also the ability to share your trips with others , and even see which of your friends you 'll be near during your travels ( presuming they are also using TripIt , obviously ) . TripIt does have some statistics after the trip , but in order to track where I 've been I enter my flight details into <URL> . Once you 've entered the flights , this site will give you maps showing where you 've been , as well as details of the number of miles you 've flown , etc. . There are other sites out there that potentially do the same thing with a little more updated user interface , but I 've been using Flight Memory for years , and it does the job well . Personally I 'd love to find a cross between TripIt , FlightMemory , and something like <URL> - but if it 's out there I 've yet to find it !
I have been wondering about that as well and here is what I could find . I read about trips with several major container ship operators ( CMA-CGM , Hanjin Shipping , MSC , NSB ) plus some roros and Polish bulkers . I also found many agencies selling more-or-less the same trips ( a few in Germany , one each in France , the US , Australia and the UK ) . In all cases , the prices were around EUR 80-110 per day , plus deviation insurance and embarkation fees ( which are more-or-less fixed costs , so they weigh much more heavily on short journeys ) . Those are the only companies I have heard of that verifiably take passengers on a regular basis and they all have pretty similar prices/conditions . Thus any trip across the Atlantic or Pacific , to or from Asia or Oceania or through the Suez canal will cost at least $ 2000-3000 , sometimes much more and circumnavigations start at $ 10,000 . Consequently , it seems the price does not depend so much on the ship , the agency or the operator but mostly on the route/length of the voyage . At EUR 100 per day , ocean crossings or longer journeys will always cost a few thousands euros/dollars . Voyages to or from Australia and New Zealand also seem in particularly high demand . The only other option seems to be shorter " partial " journeys , hopping on and off a ship doing a longer rotation . Nothing dirt cheap and certainly nothing cheaper than a commercial flight but still some opportunities to travel on a freighter for less than EUR 900/USD 1000 . Some examples : Partial journeys on <URL> , for example Salerno ( Italy ) to Setubal ( in Portugal ) or Salerno to Limassol ( Cyprus ) or Ashdod ( Israel ) . Salerno-Setubal is $ 285 per person in an internal cabin with a double bed or $ 315 in a cabin with three single beds ( but I think you have to find your travel companions yourself and book the entire cabin together , unlike couchettes on trains ) . That 's the absolute cheapest price I came across . Some agencies also list the Italy-Cyprus trip , usually with a small markup . Rotterdam-UK and return ( no one-way journey ) on a container ship , $ 345 per person through <URL> ( price includes insurance and admin fees ) . Kapitän Zylmann offers another round trip , <URL> on a small container ship , for $ 560 . According to the website , it only calls at one port in Morocco where the whole cargo is unloaded so it stays longer than usual in that port , which should allow passengers to disembark and explore a bit before returning to Portugal . Rotterdam-Dublin-Rotterdam through <URL> , starting at $ 490 , two days at port in Dublin , apparently no one-way crossing available but it should be possible to go on land . The same agency has a number of <URL> also around $ 500-600 . Fos-sur-Mer ( near Marseille ) to Malta , with a container ship from CMA-CGM . Listed by <URL> as " Med 1287 " for $ 570 ( but that does not include insurance and admin fees ) . It might also <URL> , possibly a bit cheaper . If I am not mistaken , the ships on that line continue to Suez and then Asia . CMA CGM operates some of the largest container ships in the world and they are much larger than the ships listed above so it might be a good way to experience what modern shipping is like . Cartagena to Guayaquil , over the Panama canal , is listed for $ 800 by <URL> . From the same agency , it 's apparently possible to book <URL> in Venezuela for $ 610 including fees and insurance . In the same region , <URL> taking passengers and calling at Cartagena , Port-of-Spain , Kingston , Manaus , etc. . They do n't list many details on price or conditions but it might possible to create some interesting shorter journeys from those lines . Antwerpen-Istanbul with a container ship from MSC , also <URL> . A bit more expensive at $ 810 plus fees and insurance ( in total EUR 1100/USD 1250/AUD 1600 ) , but still close to $ 1000 and a meaningful journey , crossing Gibraltar and the Mediterranean , 9 days ( only double beds so here again travelling alone is more expensive ) . Slightly cheaper but following a similar idea , it 's possible to go from <URL> for $ 785 . From what I can tell , some agencies are a little more reluctant to sell short trips than others but it seems that it 's often possible to book a partial journey on a given freighter line . So you could also check the longer journeys on all the websites listed here and then approach an agency to enquire about a specific trip , even it 's not listed explicitly .
According to <URL> : Suvarnabhumi International Airport Departure Tax ( Bangkok International Airport Departure Tax ) = 700 Baht BUT , note that it also says : Since February 1 , 2007 the 700 Baht international departure tax was included in the price of flight tickets . ( The international departure tax is usually included in the cost of your ticket . However , some travel agency may exclude the tax from their published rate , so please review the terms &amp; conditions of the ticket price carefully every time before making a purchase . )
<URL> offers cash passports : You can choose to pick up your currency in one of our many stores or have it delivered directly to your door . It covers many of the major currencies , including Japanese YEN . <URL> You can buy at their counters in most major international airports , or online in advance .
A recent report <URL> , finding Dublin to be the most receptive to buskers . Mexico City , however , not so much : Mexico City was named the least encouraging city in the report , where busking is illegal and could lead to imprisonment . So based on that , I 'd very much recommend that they do NOT attempt busking in Mexico .
The <URL> ( 沖縄クラシックカー協会 ) has a <URL> atop a garage specializing in , you guessed it , classic cars . All visitors welcome . In Ginowan on the main island , not far from the US Army base , so I imagine they 've had the odd long-nose visiting in the past . Open Mon-Sat 8:30 -18:30 , <URL> . The one problem for you is that they appear to specialize in the one thing that 's neither Japanese nor American , namely European cars .
Because this does not involve providing a service or product , but something that 's very much open to personal taste , I would think it much harder to actually maintain a successful platform in comparison to , say , couchsurfing . That said , these communities or services do exist , though I have no personal experience with them . Here are a few : <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> <URL> ( though this one seems to be more about leveraging your existing network of friends )
My initial thought was along the lines of ' but Maori are just part of the community ' - but while that 's true , there are still some options that are actually pretty awesome . And to time with the Rugby World Cup , <URL> - maraes being traditional community ancestral house or meeting venue . There are some good options out there , and I 'll list a couple of them now : <URL> - two marae on site , where you get two nights stay ( at least ) , cultural experiences , guided tours of the valley and surrounding forest , and an opportunity to see some of their arts and culture . <URL> - probably touristy , but the contents look like you really get the complete experience . From the initial Hongi ( nose touch ) , you 'll learn some language , go to a great marae , sleep over in a traditional meeting house ( optional , you can stay elsewhere for extra , but why would you ! ) , great Maori food - and importantly , you 'll share in making a Hangi - the traditional earth oven meal ( has to be seen and tasted to appreciate ! ) , learn about the Haka and try some of the traditional arts - weaving , carving , as well as learn about the history and culture . If I were a tourist in NZ , the latter one really would cover everything , although as a warning - like so many things in this vein , it 's probably a little touristy . Of course , the other option is to try couchsurfing and see if you can find a homestay on that ! However it 'd be more likely to be modern rather than traditional culture , of course .
I <URL> . Ja , die Schließfächer im Münchener Hbf sind rund um die Uhr zugänglich That says the lockers in Munich HBF are accessible 24 hours a day .
In short , no , there 's no Japanese region known for spicy food in the same way that ( say ) Sichuan or Thailand is . Japanese does n't really even have a word for " spicy " , 辛い karai originally meant " salty " and is still used in that sense as well . However , there are a couple of spicy local specialities , mostly in the south of the country where they had the most Chinese/Korean influence . ( courtesy Babi Hijau , <URL> ) Karashi renkon ( 辛子蓮根 ) means " spicy lotus root " , and it consists basically of lotus root stuffed with mustard -- and in case you have n't tried Japanese mustard yet , it 's usually blow-your-socks-off hot . This is a speciality of Kumamoto prefecture in Kyushu . ( courtesy Kanko , <URL> ) Karashi mentaiko ( 辛子明太子 ) is spicy cod roe , this time with actual chilli . It 's a Korean import that first landed in Japan at Shimonoseki at the western tip of Honshu , but is now well known all around northern Kyushu ( esp . Fukuoka ) as well . It 's a rather expensive delicacy , and mentaiko spaghetti is a very popular ( but only mildly spicy ) way to eat it , but connoisseurs eat it raw with rice . ( courtesy me ) Speaking of Kyushu , while classical tonkotsu ramen ( 豚骨ラーメン , noodles in pork bone broth ) is not spicy , it 's very common to add chili to it these days . Fukuoka is also the home of tonkotsu , with <URL> ( 一蘭 ) and <URL> ( 一風堂 ) battling it out for supremacy -- Ippudo 's akamaru , in particular , is both famous and spicy . That said , <URL> : diners eat in curtained-off single booths ! And you can specify the size of your chili dab , the default is above . And that 's about it , really , for main dishes or even main ingredients . In addition to wasabi and shichimi , Japanese cuisine uses some " spicy " spices : The karashi mustard of karashi-renkon is also used to spice up some otherwise bland dishes like oden stew . <URL> is a paste of yuzu ( a citrus fruit ) peel with green chillies , most commonly eaten with nabe hotpot stews and yakitori grilled chicken . Originally from Yufuin in Kyushu , but was briefly super-popular nationwide a few years back . <URL> ( a mild relative of Sichuan pepper ) is used in a few dishes like grilled eel ( unagi ) . There 's also a whole slew of spicy nibbles designed to accompany alcohol , eg . takowasabi ( minced octopus with wasabi ) and <URL> ( fermented squid guts , absolutely horrible stuff ) , but none of these are particularly regional as far as I 'm aware . Last but not least , do n't forget more recent culinary imports : Japan 's larger cities usually have Korean enclaves ( eg . Tsuruhashi in Osaka and Okubo in Tokyo ) which will give you all the chilli you can handle and then some , and many Korean foods like yakiniku BBQ have become an essential part of Japanese cuisine . Curry rice is apparently the single most common dish prepared in Japanese homes , although this came to Japan via England and even the notionally " spicy " ( 辛口 karakuchi ) varieties will barely register on the palate of a chilli fiend . Last and probably least , <URL> ( 中華料理 chūka ryōri ) is ubiquitous , even the smallest town will have one or two restaurants serving it . Unfortunately most all spiciness has usually been blanched out , with originally murderously hot Sichuan dishes like mapo doufu turned into vaguely ketchup-y concoctions , but there are usually a few token nominally spicy dishes like ebi chiri ( エビチリ ) , shrimp in chilli sauce , on the menu .
This is actually not the case and while no site states that tours run year round you could find references on <URL> where a user documents his trip to Sahara in June and another referring to a similar tour in September . And while tours might be suggested for November through February because the temperatures in the winter might be more comfortable for people from northerly climates it does n't mean that people stop living in the desert and thus tours are n't likely to stop . Update Specific comments by various users from <URL> about Sahara Trip in June . And just to put another nail in that coffin <URL>
Yes . HiHostels has not one , but two hostels in Dubai . They 're not terribly imaginatively named , but : <URL> <URL> You do n't need to be an HI member to stay there , but you do get a discount if you are one .
Numerous airlines worldwide have inflight WiFi . Within the US , Wifi is available on at certain flights from ( at least ) the following airlines : Air Tran ( All planes ) , Alaska , American Airlines , Delta , JetBlue , SouthWest , United ( p.s. flights only ) , US Airways , Virgin The majority of these airlines use ground-based connections , using technology similar to mobile phone data connections . Most use technology and services from <URL> . A smaller number of airlines use trialing Satellite-based systems , which obviously work better for routes over water ( eg , trans-Pacific or trans-Atlantic ) . <URL> is the most common provider in this space . Performance is generally suitable for general web browsing , but not for services such as video streaming . In fact , most services specifically block video streaming services like NetFlix . Internet service is only available above 10,000 feet ( similar to other electronic devices ) .
Check out <URL> . It can help you to plan a trip including transportations , activities , logging , daily trips , or any idea/notes you may have . It allows you to write down ideas without specifying dates and times . But you can definitely plan those specific timings when you 're ready . Hope this helps . Edit : Mindmapping softwares like <URL> might also work for you . But they are not specific for trip planning .
You might get forcibly evicted by the police . This could include any of these further downsides : You might be the target of tear gas . You might be the target of water canon . Your tent and gear could get damaged . If one side is perceived as becoming violent , the other side may also become violent . You could feel the sting of a police baton . If you are really unlucky you could possibly end up with a criminal record as direct or indirect consequences of some of the above . And that could impact future travels .
All trains to Crimea have been <URL> : From December 27 , 2014 services to Crimea terminate at stations in Novooleksiyivka and Kherson . The measure is designed to ensure the safety of railway traffic . Kyiv-Simferopol train No. 11-12 , Kyiv-Sevastopol train No. 28-27 , Kovel-Simferopol train No. 88/87 , Lviv-Simferopol train No. 86/85 , Dnipropetrovsk , Kryvy Rih-Simferopol trains No. 90/144 -143 / 89 , and Kremenchuk ( Poltava ) , Kharkiv-Simferopol train No. 92/81-82 / 92 will terminate at Novooleksiyivka station The following trains will terminate at Kherson station : Odesa-Simferopol No. 310/209 and Khmelnytsky-Simferopol No. 132/131 . Same applies to direct flights from Ukraine to Crimea . Your <URL> are to cross the border on foot or fly to Crimea via Russia .
These are typically called " leg wallet " or " leg safe " , and you can find them by searching for that term in any store that sells travel accessories . I 've also seen them in the travel accessories stand at airport shops .
In the olden days you did do laundry with bar soap - but it was laundry bar soap - harsher and unscented . You can still get it in Mexico and probably lots of places . I guess " hand soap " as it is ( or was ) usually called differs mainly by being more expensive and probably has ingredients to be less harsh on the skin , and it 's usually scented . Whether any of these extra ingredients is bad for fabrics I doubt but you never know . But being gentler on skin you can be pretty sure it 's going to be gentler on stains also , so less effective on clothes . So if the convenience of carrying fewer kinds of soap outweighs the higher price and lesser cleaning strength then sure - wash your clothes with hand soap while you 're on the road . But now and then you probably want to wash it with laundry soap too . ( If you 've ever tried washing your hands with laundry soap you will notice it can badly dry your skin . I made this mistake recently where the hostel bathroom did n't have hand soap but did have laundry powder . After a week or so the skin only on my hands was raspy and I realized my mistake . )
There is at least one - the <URL> is located in the West stand of the 32,000-seat Stadium MK ! ( Home to the MKDONS ) Several of the room types feature views out over the pitch ( you 'd want the ones saying " With View " in the booking list ) , and the restaurant/bar has views out of the pitch . The only downside is that the executive rooms are generally unavailable on match days , as they 're used for hospitality , and someone on FT mentioned that not all of the fitness facilities are available on match days as apparently they get used by the teams ! The hotel is also only a short distance from <URL> , which is a must-visit for any crypto/spy/code-breaking / computer/history geek , and you can often get some stunningly good advanced-purchase deals at the hotel for weekend stays :)
end question
